2×
 Ullr ()in illunk
 (Of £llagir
 A Precise History Of
 MAGIC
 lis Procedure, Rites And Mysteries
 AS CONTAINED IN
 Ancient Manuscripts
 Embellished With Engravings Of
 Wonderful Charms And Talismans
 By Dr. L. W. de Laurence
 AUTHOR OF, THE GREAT Book OF MAGICAL ART, HINDU
 MAGIC AND EAST INDIAN OCCULTISM.—THE MASTER KEY.—
 THE SACRED Book OF DEATH AND HINDU SPIRITISM.—THE
 MYSTIC TEST Book OF THE HINDU OCCULT CHAMBERS.–THE
 WoNDERS OF THE MAGIC MIRROR—CRYSTAL GAZING AND
 CLAIRvoyANCE.—AsTRAL AURAS AND CoLoRs.—THE IMMA
 NENCE OF GOD, KNow THYSELF.—GoD, THE BIBLE, TRUTH AND
 CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY..—MEDICAL HYPNOSIS AND MAGNETIC
 HYPNOTISM.–MANUAL OF DISEASE AND MODERN MEDICINE.—
 VALMoNDI; THE OLD Book OF ANCIENT MYSTERIES.—THE
 DEAD MAN's HoME, ETC., ETC.
 This Book Was Sold By
 The de Laurence Company,
 Chicago, Ill., U.S. A.
 U-Y
 NSU24
mad
Copyright, 1918 .
 By
 de LAURENCE, SCOTT & CO.
 SPECIAL NOTICE
 The illustrations, cover design and contents of this
 Volume are protected by copyright. and must not be
 reproduced or copied without written permission from
 the Publishers.
 Disregard of this warning will subject the offender to
 the penalty provided by law.
 NOTICE—This work is protected by Copyright, and simul
 taneous initial publications in United States of America, Great
 Britain, France, Germany, Russia, India, China and other coun
 tries. All rights reserved.
/
s
 #
#
 S-(+-*722-.

f
 ireface
 This Volume is an authentic and an official work, compiled
 from Ancient Jtlanuscripts, and gives in full detail many rare and
 Secret Mysteries. The same is embellished with several full page
 illustrations of Magic Ceremonies; together with nearly one hun
 dred and fifty rare old engravings of Ancient Talismans, etc.
 There is also, for the first time, given to the student, in this work,
 a complete reproduction of the Original Mysteries and Ancient
 Manuscripts of the “DIVINE RAPHAEL,” better known as the
 “Metropolitan Astrologer” and editor of the Prophetic Almanac,
 and other Sidral works.
 This book also contains the Mystic Rites, Ceremonies, and
 Incantations, used by the Ancient Theurgists and old Philoso
 phers to burst asunder the bounds of natural order, and to obtain
 an intercourse with the world of spirits; for let it known, to
 those whose eyes follow these words, that millions of spiritual
 creatures walk the earth unseen, both when we are awake and
 when we are asleep.
 .
 The rapid sale, over the world, of my books, and the
 unprecedented requests for Catalogues, describing the same,
 has caused me to publish this work although I have had these
 Ancient Manuscripts in my possession many, many years, hav
 ing purchased them at a very great cost; but as my former books
 are in such vigorous demand, I have deemed it expedient to
 present the philosophical world with this compendious Volume;
 wherein is contained Instructions, Secrets and Mysteries that
 were known only to the old Masters some four hundred years
 ago.
 The inconsistencies of many authors, and the foolish claims
 of book sellers, who are selling works said to have been written
 by RAPHAEL, always brings a quiet and sarcastic smile to the face
 of those that know that the market today is flooded with false
 and spurious editions of this great man’s writings.
 This Volume is an authentic one, and the student may depend
 upon it, from the first to the last page, as I have carefully
 expunged everything not valuable, original, and worthy of the
 student’s attention, so that he may, with as little difficulty as
 possible, be capable of learning the Astral and Celestial Worlds
 in their most essential parts. As to the Magical and Occult Parts
 of this work; such as Magic Rites, Charms, and Incantations,
 3
’
 PREFACE
 4
 they are most fully explained so as to enable my Students and my
 Disciples to complete the full development of their Occult studies.
 student to operate many strange and wonderful things so that
 There are things taught in this Volume which will enable the
 even this part of the work may not be devoid of utility; but may
 help the student to invoke powers that will render him great aid.
 The student of Spiritual Mysteries and Astral Powers will find
 ample herein to gratify his desire; for in the perusal of these
 Rare And Ancient Manuscripts, many of which are replete with
 those secrets now so much sought after, the student will realize
 the great worth of this Volume which will be found acceptable
 to the legitimate student of Magic And Celestial Science.
 No modern Expositor of Astrology can bear in comparison
 with the “DIVINE RAPHAEL,” and among ancient expositors, he
 stood the highest in authority, all yielding to his great knowledge.
 Hence, no greater name than RAPHAEL’s has ever embellished
 the science of Astrology and no Volume such as this one, contain
 ing his Original Mysteries, has ever been before published. The
 very same deals with Magic, Charms, Talismans, Astral In»
 f
 luences, The Spirit World, Demonology And Witchcraft.
 The real manhood of man can only be gained by having a full
 and clear knowledge of Occultism and Ancient Magic. This is
 the ideal which all earnest Occult students is striving to attain,
 and this ideal has plainly been recognized by all intelligent leaders
 of human progress. The time has come for men and women
 “to put away childish things,” and to relinquish the beliefs and
 practices of the priest, the minister and the materialists.
 Ancient Magic is a terrible power. It is based upon the pre
 scientific world-conception, which in its primitive stage is called
 animism, imputing to nature a spiritual life analogous to our own
 spirit, and peopling the spirit world with individual personalities.
 The Old Magic stands in contrast to material science; it trans
 cends human knowledge by supernatural methods and is based
 upon the fact of operating many wonderful things by the assist
 ance of Invisible Powers and Intelligent Spirits who can be
 forced by Magical Invocations into an alliance with the operator.
 The real Occult student knows that evil influences, of every
 kind, can be averted and warded ofi by Charms or Talismans, and
 that the aid of, both good and Evil Spirits, can be procured by
 proper Incantations and Conjurations.
 The world-conception of true ‘Occultism and Magic is long
 lingering, and its influence will not subside instantaneously with
 the first frown of material science. The Middle Ages were‘full of
 Magic, and the belief in it has not died out to this day, and
 never will.
 Dr. L. W. de Laurence.
. . I
 ‘
$#$s#$#s|
Ellie (19121 Ifinnk (hf fllagir
 ifiart Q511e
 CHAPTER I
 “Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth Unseen,
 both when we wake, and when we sleep."
 MAGICAL CEREMONIES AND INCANTATIONS.
 MAGIC CEREMONIES, CHARMS, AND INCANTATIONS. THE
 ANCIENT PRACTICE OF INVOKING THE SPIRITS
 OF THEDEAD.
 This, THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC, has, after many years of
 travel and research, been compiled, by the writer, from a selection
 of the most approved Ancient Authors, and from Ancient Manu
 scripts in the Libraries at the British Museum, Bristol Cathedral,
 and Wells; the Bodleian Library, and Ashmolean Museum at
 5
6
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Oxford; together with a variety of rare Occult Secrets from
 Ancient Manuscripts in the possession of the Adepts and Old
 Masters as well as other valuable Sources of authentic Informa
 tion.
 Having proceeded to' this high and mysterious part of our
 subject, it will not be amiss to caution the inexperienced reader,
 that the following observations are compiled from an attentive
 study of the Oldest Masters, and the choicest Ancient Manu
 scripts which could be procured; and, it is contrary to reason to
 suppose that so many eminent men, in all ages, would have
 written on the subject merely for the purpose of deluding or
 deceiving the unwary or the credulous. Therefore, I will avouch
 for the actual possibility of all I hereafter shall relate. My chief
 object, in this work, being a development of the sublime studies
 which occupied the attention of the ancient philosophers, and
 which have hitherto been as a Sealed Book to the greater part
 of the community, or at best involved beneath a cloud of enigmas,
 which it shall now be my business to solve, dispute, and also to
 give a general explanation relative to the mysterious History and
 doctrines of Cabalistical and Ceremonial Magic.
 OF INTELLIGENCES AND SPIRITS
 THEIR ORDERS AND INFERNAL AGENTS
 According to the theory and belief of the Ancient Thurgists,
 an Intelligence is an intelligible substance, free from all gross
 terrestrial matter, immortal, and of supernatural influence, and
 the nature of all Intelligences, Spirits, and Angels, is the same.
 From this term, however, the internal spirits are exempted. Of
 the Angels there are three kinds: the first of which we call
 supercelestial, and minds altogether separated from a body, being,
 as it were, intellectual spheres worshipping only one supreme
 power, as it were, their most firm and stable unity or centre.
 Wherefore they even call them Gods, by reason of a certain
 participation of the Divinity, for they are always full of Supreme
 Power, are always about the Supreme Forces, infusing the light
 received from them into the inferior orders, making an equal
 distribution of power and duty.
 The Celestial Intelligences follow in the second order,
 which are called mundane angels, viz. being appointed, besides
 the divine worship, for the spheres of the world, and for the
 government of every zone and star; whence they are divided
 into so many orders as there are zones in the spirit world, and
 as there are stars in the heavens. Thus. the ancients termed
 those Saturnine who ruled the sphere of Saturn; others fovial,
 Martial, and so on throughout the whole order of the heavens.
 And the ancients also placed in the starry heavens angels who
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 7
 might rule the signs, triplicities, decans,‘ quinaries, degrees, and
 stars. Therefore they established twelve princes of the angels,
 who rule the twelve signs of the Zodiac, and thirty-six who rule
 the decans, and seventy-two others who may rule so many
 quinaries of heaven, with the tongues of men and nations, and
 four who may rule the triplicities and elements, and seven gov
 ernors of the whole world, according to the seven planets; and
 they have given to all of them names and seals, which they call
 characters, using them in their invocations, incantations, &c. &c.
 For instance, if at any time they operated for the sun, they invo
 cated by the name of the sun, by the names of the solar spirits,
 and so of the rest.
 SPIRITS AS MINISTERS
 Thirdly, they established spirits, as ministers for the disposing
 of those things below, which Origen called certain invisible
 powers, to which those things which are on earth are committed
 to be disposed of. For, according to them, sometimes they, being
 invisible, do direct our journeys, and all our business, are often
 present at our battles, and by secret helps do give the desired
 success to their friends; for at their pleasure they can procure
 prosperity and inflict adversity.
 In like manner they distribute these into more orders; so some
 are fiery, some watery, some aerial, and some terrestrial: which
 four species of angels are computed according to the four powers
 of the celestial souls, viz. the mind, reason, imagination, and the
 vivifying or mobuce faculty. Hence the fiery follow the mind of
 the celestial souls, concurring to the contemplation of more divine
 things.
 But the aerial follow reason, favoring the rational
 faculty, after a certain manner, separating it from the sensitive
 and vegetative. Therefore it serves for an active life, as the fiery
 for the contemplative; but the watery follow the imagination,
 serving for a voluptuous life; the earthly following nature, and
 favoring vegetation.
 Some of these are also Oriental, some Occidental, some
 Meridional, some Septentrional. Moreover, according to the
 ancients, there is no part of the world destitute of the proper
 assistance of these angels, not because they are alone, but because
 they reign there especially; for they are everywhere, although
 some especially operate and have their influence in this place, and
 some elsewhere. Neither, truly, are these things to be understood
 as though they were subject to the influence of the stars; but, as
 they have corresponded with the heaven above the world, from
 whence especially all things are directed, and to which all things
 ought to be comformable: whence, as these Spirits are appointed
 for divers stars, so also for divers places and times, not that they
8
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 are limited to any place or time, neither by the bodies which they
 are appointed to govern; but because divine wisdom hath so
 decreed; therefore they favor more and patronize those bodies,
 places, times, stars, &c. and hence are called diurnal, nocturnal,
 meridional, and septentrional. Thus, the ancients termed some
 woodmen, some mountaineers, some fieldmen, some domestics.
 Hence the Deities of the Woods, SATYRS, FAMILIARS, Fnmnzs,
 NYMPHS, NAIADES, DRYADES, PIERIDES, HAMADRYADES, MusEs,
 ~
 the GRACES, GENII, and such like; some of whom they affirm are
 so familiar with men, that they are even affected with human
 perturbations; by whose instructions Plato thinks that men do
 wonderful things, even as by the instruction of men. And they
 report that there are so many legions as there are stars in the
 heaven, and so many spirits in every legion as there are in heaven
 itself stars. Yet, according to St. Athanasius, the number of
 good spirits is according to the number of men, ninety-nine parts,
 according to the parable of the Ten Goats; others suppose the
 number of the angels equal with men, because it is written, he
 hath appointed the bounds of the people according to the number
 of the angels of God; and concerning their number others have
 written many things: but the modern theologians, following
 Austin and Gregory, easily resolve themselves, saying, that the
 number of the good Angels transcendeth human capacity, to the
 which, on the contrary, innumerable unclean spirits do corre
 spond, there being as many impure spirits in the inferior world
 as good spirits in the superior; and some divines do not scruple
 to affirm that they have received this by revelation.
 Under these they place a kind of spirits subterraneous, or
 obscure, which the Platonists call angels that failed, revengers of
 wickedness and ungodliness, according to the decree of divine
 justice; and they call them evil angels and wicked spirits, because
 they often annoy and hurt, even of their own accord. Of these,
 also, they reckon more legions, and in like manner distinguishing
 them according to the names of the stars and elements, and parts
 of the world. They also place over them kings, princes, and
 rulers, of which four most powerful and evil spirits rule over the
 other, according to the four quarters of the World. Under these
 many more princes of legions govern, and many private officers,
 as the Gorgones, Statenocte, Tisiphane, Alecto, Megara, and
 Cerberus.
 This kind of spirits, according to PORPHYRY, inhabit a place
 nigh to the earth—yea, within the earth itself; there is no mis
 chief which they dare not commit: they have altogether a violent
 and hurtful nature, therefore they plot and endeavor violent and
 sudden mischiefs, and. when they make incursions, sometimes
 they lie hid, and sometimes offer open violence, being very much
 delighted in all things done wickedly and mischievously.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 OF THE NAMES OF SPIRITS
 AND THEIR VARIOUS DESCRIPTIONS
 9
 SPIRITS THAT RULE THE STARS. SIGNS. AND Ei.EMENTs
 MANY and different are the names of good and evil spirits, but
 their proper and true names, as those of the stars, are known only
 to the Adepts, who alone number the multitude of stars, and call
 them by their names, whereof none can be known by men, but by
 divine revelation; very few are expressed to us in sacred writ.
 But the Hebrew Rabbis think that the names of angels were
 imposed on them by Adam, according to that which is written,
 “The Lord brought all things which he had made unto Adam,
 that he should name them; and as he called any thing, so the
 name thereof was.” Hence the Hebrew Mcecubalsthink, together
 with Magicians and Cabalists, that it is in the power of man to
 impose names upon spirits, but of such a man only who is dig
 nified and elevated to this virtue by some divine gift or sacred
 authority; but because a name that may express the nature of
 divinity, or the whole virtue of angelical essences, cannot be made
 by any human voice, therefore names for the most part are put
 upon them from their works, signifying some certain office or ‘
 effect which is required by the order of Spirits; which name then,
 and not otherwise, obtains efficacy and virtue to draw any spir
 itual substance from above, or beneath, to make any desired effect.
 Thus, an intelligent writer on magic declares, he has seen and
 known some persons, who, writing on virgin parchment, the name
 and seal of some spirit, in the hour of the moon, which they
 afterwards gave to be devoured by a water frog, and rehearsing
 a certain verse, letting the frog go into the water, great rains and
 showers followed. Also, the same person, inscribing the name of
 another spirit with the seal thereof in the hour of Mars, which
 was given to a crow, upon the crow being set at liberty, and a
 verse applicable thereto rehearsed, there followed from that part
 of heaven whither it flew, lightnings and horrible thunders, with
 thick clouds.
 '
 Also, the names of some angels are Raphael, Gabriel, Michael,
 Haniel, which is as much as to say, the vision of God,ithe virtue
 of God, the strength of God, the glory of God, &c. In like man
 ner, in the offices of evil demons, are read their names, viz. a
 player, a deceiver, a dreamer, a fornicator, and many such like.
 So we receive from many of the ancient fathers and the
 Hebrews, the names of angels set over the planets and signs:
 Thus the spirit of Saturn is Cassiel, in the order of Thrones.
 the spirit of Jupiter is Zadkiel, in the order of Dominations.
 the spirit of Mars
 is Samael, in the order of Potentates.
10
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Thus the spirit of S01
 is Michael, in the order of Virtues.
 the spirit of Venus isHanael, in the orderofPrincipalities.
 the spirit of Luna
 is Gabriel, in the orderof Angels.
 Andthe spiritof Mercury is Raphael, in the orderof Archangels.
 These are those seven spirits which always stand before the
 face of God, to whom is entrusted the disposing of the whole
 celestial and terrene kingdoms which are under the region of the
 moon; for these (as the more curious theologians say) govern all
 things by a certain vicissitude of hours, days, and years. As the
 ancient astrologers teach concerning the planets which they are
 set over, which Mercurius Trismegistus calls the seven governors
 of the world, who, by the heavens as by instruments, distribute
 the influences of all the signs and stars, upon their inferiors.
 Again, the ancients have two other* superior orders of spirits,
 answering to two spheres of the Heavens, distinct from the
 planetary regions, namely Methratton, in the ninth orb of
 Heaven, in the order of Seraphims, and Razael, in the starry orb
 of Heaven, in the order of Cherubims/r And every one of the
 planetary spirits governs the world 354 years and 4 months, the
 government beginning from the intelligence of Saturn; after
 wards, in order, the intelligences of Jupiter, Venus, Mars, Sol,
 Luna, and Mercury, the government again returning to the spirit
 of Saturn.
 TRITHEMIUS, the famous Abbot of Spanheim, wrote a special
 treatise concerning these, which he that will thoroughly examine
 may from thence draw great knowledge of future times. Over
 the twelve signs of the Zodiac, are set these—viz. over Aries the
 spirit Malahidael; over Taurus the spirit Asmodel; over Gemini
 the spirit Imbriel; over Cancer the spirit Muriel; over Leo the
 spirit Virchiel; over Virgo the spirit Gamaliel; over Libra the
 spirit Luriel; over Scorpio the spirit Barahiel; over Sagittarius
 the spirit Advachiel; over Capricorn the spirit Hanael; over
 Aquarius the spirit Cambiel; over Pisces the spirit Barchiel.
 Of these spirits set over the planets and signs, St. John makes
 mention of in the Revelation, speaking of the former in the begin
 ning, and the seven spirits which are in the presence of the throne
 of God, which we find are attributed to the seven planets in that
 ‘This singular order of other spiritual rulers, in addition to the seven planetary
 spirits, making in the whole nine orders, proves that the system of the ancients was
 not founded in delusion; for, as above shown they have two other order: of spirits,
 which are not attributed to any star or planet, but merely to the sphere of Heaven. So
 that the discovery of an eighth planet does in no way overturn the ancient system of
 ma ic, but seems to hint t at there is a possibility of the existence of another planet
 stil more remote than HEnscHEL; whose immense distance, as it wanders through the
 boundless re ions of infinite s ace, has hitherto hindered its discovery by our best
 astronomers, ut which we firm y believe will, by its future discovery, give a new and
 enlarged idea of the now generally received solar system.
 1' Razael is thus the spirit of Herschel according to the above division, and is more
 pgowerful than the spirit of Saturn, even as the in uence of Herschel exceeds that of
 aturn.
rANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 11
 part where he describes the platform of the heavenly city, saying,
 that on the twelve gates thereof are twelve angels.
 There are, again, twenty-eight angels, who rule in the twenty
 eight mansions of the moon; there are also four Princes of the
 Angels, which are set over the four winds, and over the four
 parts of the world. Thus, Michael is placed over the east wind,
 Raphael over the west, Gabriel over the north, and Ariel over the
 south. There are also assigned to the elements these,—to the air
 Cheub, to the fire Seaph, to the earth Aries, and to the water
 Tharris. Now every one of these spirits is a great prince, and
 has much power and freedom in the dominion of his own planets
 and signs, and in their times, years, months, days, and hours; also
 in their elements, parts, and winds. Every one of these princes
 bears rule over many legions of immortal spirits; likewise, after
 the same manner, amongst evil spirits, there are four, who, as
 most potent kings, are set over the rest, according to the four
 parts of the world, whose’ names are these: Oriens, king of the
 east; Paymon, king of the west; Egin, king of the north, and
 Amaymou, king of the south.* Which the Hebrew Doctors affirm
 to be most powerful spirits, under whom many others rule as
 princes of legions. Likewise there are innumerable demons of '
 private offices; moreover, the ancient Grecian Theurgists reckon
 up six demons, which they call Telehines or Alastores, “who,
 bearing ill will to men, take up (as they figuratively express it)
 water out of the river Styx with their hands, and sprinkle it upon
 the earth, whence follow calamities, plagues, and famines ;” and
 these are said to be Acteus, Magalezius, Ormenus, Lycus, Nicon,
 and Minon; and, although in the exact nomenclature of these
 spirits some ancient authors are found to differ, yet both the
 ancient and modern Theurgists are unanimous in the description
 of their several orders and 0fficeS.'l'
 WARNED BY A SPIRIT
 TO QUIT A DANGEROUS HOUSE
 A GENTLEMAN in France, by profession a lawyer, and, as is
 usual for lawyers there, a counsellor of the Parliament of Paris,
 being in bed, and fast asleep, was awakened by a voice, which
 repeated several times something which he could not understand;
 but he got up on this extraordinary occasion, and wrote down the
 words which he had heard, in French characters, as follows:
 "Apithi, onk osphra‘inay ten seen apsychian.” Having done so,
 he endeavored to sleep again, but could not shut his eyes all the
 rest of the night, the strange words continually sounding in his
 'Vide Cicogriae Magia Omnifaria, &c. also_Psell de _Oper Damon.
 _
 TDoes not this seem to prove that there is something more than mere mystery
 in these ancient systems?
12
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ears; and finding himself extremely uneasy, he determined to
 rise, and pass the time away by studying a cause which he had to
 report that morning; but still the strangeness of the noise dwelt
 so upon his mind, that he could not at all fix his attention; he
 therefore went to a coffee-house very early, where, meeting with
 some friends, he showed them the slip of paper he had written
 from the unaccountable articulation he had heard; when a person
 present, M. de Saumaise, looking at it, declared the words to be
 Syriac, and to mean, literally, “Depart, hast thou no apprehension
 of thy death?” This translation was received with a loud laugh,
 and the warning treated as a jest and an invention; but the gentle
 man taking it in a more serious light, left his house the same day,
 and it fell flat to the ground the following night!
 *
 THE THEBAN ALPHABET
 THE MYSTERIOUS LETTERS DELIVERED BY HoNORIUS
 OF MYSTERIOUS WRITING
 THERE is among Theurgists a writing which they call Celestial
 because they show it us placed and figured amongst the stars.
 There is also another kind of character received by Revelation
 only, and which cannot be found out any other way; the virtues
 of which are from the Deity revealing them, of whom there are
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 13
 some secret works breathing out an harmony of the divinity, or
 they are, as it were, some certain agreements or compacts of a
 league between us and them. Of this kind, was the sign in the
 Heavens revealed to Constantine, “In hoc vince.” Also, that
 revealed to Antiochus, in the figure of a pentangle, signifying
 health; for, being resolved into letters, it speaks the word inteta,
 i. e., health. In the faith and virtue of which signs, both kings
 obtained a great victory against their enemies. So, also, Judas,
 who by reason of that was afterwards surnamed Machabeus,
 being to fight with the Jews, against Antiochus Eupator, received
 from an angel a notable sign, 5550 in the virtue of which they
 first slew 11,000, with an infinite number of elephants, and after
 wards slew 35,000 of their enemies. For that sign did represent
 the name of Jehovah, and was a memorable emblem of the great
 name of seventy-two letters, by the equality of number; and the
 exposition thereof is mn, b,5Na quo: "p i. e., who is there
 among thee strong as Jehovah?
 The seals of spirits are widely different from the above, being
 formed out of magical squares, circles, and pentacles: they are
 chiefly dependent upon the power, virtue, and efficacy, of certain
 mysteries relative to numerical powers; and others depend upon
 the office of the ruling angel, being essentially different in their
 formation, as well as use; for each of the planetary spirits is
 accompanied by an intelligence to good, and a spirit to evil; which
 are also used for various peculiar purposes. But the seals of the
 evil and familiar spirits are more subject to arbitrary formation,
 being void of any other demonstration, than as having been
 handed down to us by the learned in those mysteries.
 THE BONDS OF SPIRITS AND THEIR ADJURATIONS
 THE bonds by which spirits are bound, besought, or cast out,
 are three: some of them are taken from the elemental world, as
 when the Theurgist would adjure a spirit by any inferior and
 natural thing of affinity with or adverse to them, inasmuch as we
 would call up, or cast them out, as by fumigations of flowers,
 herbs, animals, snow, ice, or by fire, and such like;" and these
 .* The following extraordinary magical virtues of herbs, &c. are extracted from an
 ancient manuscript in, the possession of the Author
 “Anoint, thee with, the juice of canabus and archangel; and, before a mirror of
 steel, call spirits, and thou shalt see them, and have power to bind and to loose them.
 'The fume,of fieniculis chaseth away spirits.. .
 “Take the herb avisum, and join it to camphire, and thou shalt see spirits, that
 shall dread thee. It helpeth much to the achieving of secret things.
 ...
 “Coriandrum gathereth spirits together; a fume, being, made thereof with apio
 misquio, and lazias cicuta, urgeth,spirits, and therefore it is said to be the herb of spirits.
 “Petersilion chaseth away all the spirits of riches.
 “Take coriandrum of the second kind, which maketh one to sleep; and join thereto
 croco, '# and apio, and grind them together with the juice of hemlock; then
 make a suffumigation therewith, and suffume the £ where thou wilt hide any treasure
 in, when,the
 is
 hidden, shall never be found.
 #to the G), in the angle of the earth; and that treasure, so
*Saturea is an herb which, being worn about one, giveth grace and good fortune.”
14
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 also are often mixed with divine praises, and blessings, and conse
 crations, as appears in the Song of the Three Children, and in the
 psalm “Magnificat,” and in others of the same signification. This
 bond works upon the spirits by an apprehensive virtue, under the
 account of love or hatred, inasmuch as the spirits are present
 with, or favor, or abhor, any thing that is natural, or against
 nature, as these things themselves love or hate one another.
 The second bond is taken from the celestial world, viz. when
 they are adjured by their heaven, by the stars, their motions,
 rays, light, beauty, clearness, influence, and wonders, and such
 like. And this bond works upon spirits, by way of admonition
 and example. It hath also some command, especially upon the
 ministering spirits, and those who are of the lowest orders.
 The third bond is from the intellectual and divine world,
 which is perfected by religion; that is to say, when they are
 adjured by the sacraments, miracles, divine names, sacred seals,
 and other mysteries. Wherefore, this bond is the highest of all,
 and the strongest, working upon the spirits by command and
 power; but this is to be observed, that, as after the universal
 Providence, there is a particular one, and after the universal soul,
 particular souls; so, in the first place, we invocate by the superior
 bonds, and by the names and powers which rule the things; then
 by the inferior, and the things themselves. Thus, also, by these
 bonds and adjurations, not only spirits, but also all creatures, are
 bound; as tempests, burnings, floods, plagues, diseases, force of
 arms, and every animal, by assuming them, either by adjuration,
 or deprecation, or benediction, as in the charming of serpents, &c.
 besides the natural and celestial, by rehearsing out of the
 mysteries of religion, the cure of the serpent in terrestrial para
 dise, the lifting up of the serpent in the wilderness; and, likewise,
 by assuming that verse of the gist Psalm, “Thou shalt walk upon
 the asp and the basilisk, and shalt tread upon the lion and the
 dragon.”
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 Ill
 The learned Cabalists have also taught that, by rehearsing any
 particular passage of Scripture, some effect will follow, according
 to the vehement desire of the charmer, or he who repeats them.
 The following are a few examples, delivered to us by oral
 ~
 testimony, but which were probably deemed too Secret to be
 committed heretofore to writing.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 CHARMS FOR VARIOUS OCCASIONS
 A CHARM AGAINST FURIOUS BEASTS
 REPEAT earnestly and with sincere faith these words:—
 15
 At destruction and famine, thou shalt laugh, neither shalt thou
 be afraid of the beasts of the earth.”
 “For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field, and
 the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.”—JOB, chap. 5,
 V. 22, 23.
 A CHARM AGAINST TROUBLE IN GENERAL
 “He shall deliver thee in six troubles, yea in seven there shall
 be no evil touch thee.
 “In famine he shall redeem thee from death, and in war from
 the power of the sword.
 “And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace,
 and thou shalt visit thy habitation and shalt not err.”—JoB, chap.
 5, V. I9, 20, 24.
 A CHARM AGAINST ENEMIES
 “Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid,
 for the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song; he also is
 become my salvation.
 “For the stars of heaven, and the constellations thereof, shall
 not give their light; the sun shall be darkened in his going forth,
 and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.
 “And behold, at evening tide, trouble; and before the morning
 he is not; this is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of
 them that rob us.”—ISAIAH, chap. 12 and 17.
A CHARM AGAINST PERIL BY FIRE OR WATER
 Thus, also, when we would avoid peril by fire or water, we
 make use of this passage:—When thou passest through the
 waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers they shall not
 overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not
 be burnt, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.”—IsAIAH,
 chap. 43, v. 2.
 And as, according to the learned Cabalists, there is not a
 verse, line, word, or even letter, in the Holy Scriptures which has
 not some particular and peculiar meaning, either offensive or
 defensive (being read in the original Hebrew), so, according to
 them, the holy and ineffable names of the Supreme Being, drawn
 from the sacred word according to the rules of theurgic science,
 "Our version has it “sin,” but the original signifies thou shalt not “err.”
16
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 are equally powerful to avert impending evils, &c. But they have
 been very desirous of keeping their writings a profound secret,
 according as we read in Esdras—“Thou shalt deliver those books
 to the wise men of the people, whose hearts thou knowest can
 comprehend them, and keep those secrets.” Which is the reason
 why the greater part of the ancient writings were written in
 enigmatical language, and must be hieroglyphically understood.
 CABALISTICAL WORDS OF GREAT EFFICACY
 I.
 To CAUSE DESTRUCTION TO ENEMIES
 OUT of the following passage, “Let their ways be dark and
 slippery, and let the angel of the Lord pursue them,” they draw
 forth the name of the evil angel and messenger of mischief,
 Mirael or Midael,5N5”of the spiritual order of warriors: and,
 when they would destroy an enemy, they made a Talisman, cast .
 at the time when the moon was in evil aspect to Mars, affixing
 thereupon the above name Mirael, and the name of the enemy
 also whom they would subvert or destroy, and the effect soon
 followed.
 2. TO GIVE DIVINE PROTECTION
 The Cabalists draw forth a name of great efficacy from the
 following sentence: “You are everlasting power, God.”
 ">"IN
 *
 A.
 p?!y?
 b
 L
 Tax
 J.
 G
 rinsk
 N:
 A.
 From the above verse is drawn forth the great name of God,
 Agla (Alga transposed), and whoso would protect himself against
 enemies must wear this great name continually about him, written
 on Virgin Parchment.
 3. OTHER DIVINE NAMEs
 The word or name Jesu is extracted from the following sen
 tences of Holy Writ: “Until the Messiah shall come,” and “His
 name abides till the end,” by taking the first Hebrew letters of
 each word in this manner:—
 1951% vs 'a and "The w! 12"
 !
 w "
 By which the name JESU is formed.
 !
 w I
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 17
 Also the word Amen is extracted from the following verse:
 “The Lord, the Faithful King :—
 pa: 11:: on:
 ‘I
 I9
 '
 By taking the three heads or three first letters of each word
 collected and compounded together, which proves that the word
 AMEN is of great efficacy, and not without just cause used at the
 end of all prayers by the Church of England. Thus, in like man
 ner, did the ancient Cabalists proceed in determining the names
 and powers of good or evil spirits, and thus did they proceed in
 adjuring or binding them, as they found occasion.
 PREDICTION OF A BABYLONIAN ASTROLOGER
 BELESUS, a Babylonian captain, skilled in Astrology and Divi
 nation beyond all the Chaldeans, told Arbaces, the prefect of
 Media, “That he should be lord of that which Sardanapalus did
 then possess, since his birth was favored, as he knew, with a lucky
 position of the stars.” Arbaces, encouraged by this hope, con
 spired with the Babylonians and Arabians: but the revolt being
 known, the rebels were thrice overthrown by Sardanapalus.
 The confederates, amazed at so many unhappy chances, deter
 mined to return home. But Belesus, having all night made obser
 vation of the stars, foretold that a considerable body of friends
 were coming to their assistance, and that, in a short time, affairs
 would go on more prosperously. Thus confirmed, they waited
 the time set down by Belesus: in which it was told them, that the
 Bactrians were come in aid of the king.
 It seemed good to Arbaces and the rest to meet the Bactrians
 with a select body, and to persuade them to revolt, or to force
 Ehem. He prevailed without blows, and they joined with his
 orces.
CHAPTER II
 THE APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS
 AccorDING to an Ancient Manuscript the appearances of the
 four potent rulers of the four Mundane quarters are these:—
 1.
 THE SPIRIT ORIENS, KING OF THE EAST
 HE appeareth with a firm countenance, and a goodly crown
 upon his head; he rideth upon an elephant, having before him
 numbers of hands and swords. Sometimes he appeareth in the
 similitude of a horse; and, when he is constrained by magical
 incantations, assumeth a human shape. He hath under him 250
 legions of inferior spirits. His power, according to the ancients,
 is great, and he can answer truly to all demands, both past,
 present, and to come.
 18
2.
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE SPIRIT OF PAYMON, KING OF THE WEST
 19
 This spirit is powerful to evil, appearing in the likeness of an
 armed soldier, riding upon a camel or dromedary, being crowned
 with a bright crown; his countenance is feminine, but his voice
 hoarse and uncouth. Before him goeth all kinds of musical
 instruments: yet, when constrained by art, he readily performs
 the desired wishes of the invocator, and hath under him an
 infinity of spirits.
 3.
 THE SPIRIT EGIN, KING OF THE NORTH
 This spirit is high and mighty. He appeareth in the form of
 a man riding upon a dragon, with a regal crown: on each side
 of him are hissing serpents. He cometh with a fearful and
 tremendous noise, with many inferiors around him; and under
 him are countless legions of mighty spirits. When constrained
 by powerful incantations, this spirit assumes the form of a child,
 and the raising of this spirit is less dangerous than of either of
 the preceding, and has proved of great use to the magician, when
 rightly invoked. He discovers treasures of the earth, and. is very
 tractable.
 4.
 THE SPIRIT AMAYMON, KING OF THE SOUTH
 The spirit Amaymon is great, high, and mighty, and terrible
 in appearance. He usually assumes the form of an old man, with
 a long beard, his ears being like to those of a horse, with a royal
 diadem on his head. His first appearance is unusually tremen
 dous; forked lightning and deep-mouthed thunders, shaking the
 earth apparently to the centre, announce his awful appearance.
 Then suddenly the earth will appear to vomit forth gushes of
 f
 lame, and sulphureous odors taint the charmed atmosphere.
 Anon, are heard all sorts of musical instruments; then an uncouth
 clatter of creaking wheels and horrid crashes, will every instant
 astound the invocator; but on a sudden will all be again calm;
 and, clothed in the whole pomp of his spiritual grandeur, attended
 by countless legions of invincible spirits, Amaymon will be seen
 ri_ding furiously on a fierce and roaring lion. He will approach
 to the utmost limits of the space assigned him, and it will well
 become the Theurgist to preserve his wonted calmness; for, if he
 powerfully constrain, and urgently invoke, this furious spirit, he
 may be brought to the most submissive obedience. He has power
 to give knowledge, dignity, and great promotion. /, These four
 powerful spirits are difficult to be constrained, or urged to visible
 appearance. They are dangerous to contend with, and are
 “powers of evi ,” “swift to destruction.” They bear an inveterate
 hatred to human kind, will delude the Theurgist with lies and
20
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 deceit, and in every other way stirve to render his work abortive.
 But if the Theurgist shall be able to make them enter a conse
 crated pentacle, or a circle fortified with divine names, they will
 be forced against their will to reveal the truth; and he need fear
 no harm, if he be born under a right constellation.
 ,
 PLANETARY SPIRITS
 THEIR APPEARANCE AND FORM
 THESE spirits, which are attributed to the Seven Planets, are
 more easily called forth than the before-mentioned mighty princes
 of the invisible world; And, in fact, the ceremonies necessary for
 the incantations and constrictions for these assume a far more
 facile and certain character than for the others. Neither can
 there be anything so dangerous in the process of invocation; for
 these spirits are almost entirely subservient to human skill, espe
 cially where the invocator wishes to converse with the spirits of
 that planet under which he was born.*
 SPIRITS OF SATURN
 '
 The spirits of Saturn usually appear with a tall, slender, lean
 body, very unwillingly, and having an angry countenance; having
 four faces, hosed or beaked. They appear and disappear inces
 santly, and their color is black and shining, but of very imperfect
 form. Their motion is as swift as the wind, attended at times
 with an earthquake, or extraordinary tremulous motion of the
 earth.
 Their particular forms are—
 A king, bearded, riding on a dragon.
 An old man with a beard.
 An old woman, leaning on a crutch.
 An hog.
 A dragon.
 An owl.
 A black garment.
 A hook or sickle.
 A juniper-tree.
 The spirits of Saturn are under the south-west wind. They
 usually come at first with very terrific appearance; and the sign
 of their appearance is white earth, whiter than snow. Their
 office is to sow discords, hatred, evil thoughts, and cogitations;
 to kill, murder, and commit very heinous crime, which the divine
 ‘One argument brought forward a ins_t Astrology, is, that the Planets are inert
 and senseless masses of matter, and evoid of any power to move the intellectual
 faculties of mankind, born under them. Does not the above singular theory of the
 ancient Magii—‘that the planets are governed by spirits—account, in a great measure,
 for the demonstrable effects of their decided influence over human life.
'ANCIENT. MANUSCRIPTS
 21
 Providence shall permit. They rule over Saturday, and are
 invoked the 1st, 8th, I5th, and 22d hours of that day.*
 SPIRITS OF THE SUN
 The spirits of the Sun generally appear in a large full body,
 sanguine and gross, in a gold color, with the tincture of blood.
 They are very terrific and majestic in their appearance. Their
 motion is as the winged lightning, accompanied by fearful thun
 ders, and a burning atmosphere.
 Their particular forms are
 A king, with a sceptre, riding on a lion.
 A king crowned.
 A queen with a sceptre.
 A bird.
 A lion.
 A cock.
 A sceptre.
 A yellow garment.
 The spirits of the sun are under the north wind; their sign is
 causing a profuse perspiration upon the invocator.
 Their nature is to procure gold, gems, carbuncles, diamonds,
 and rubies; and to cause one to obtain favor and benevolence, to
 dissolve enmity, raise to honors, and take away infirmities. These
 spirits are said to bear rule over Sunday. The hours are the
 same as those of Saturn.
 ‘
 SPIRITS OF THE MOON
 The spirits of the Moon appear generally of a great and full
 stature, soft and phlegmatic, of color like a black obscure cloud,
 having a swollen countenance, with eyes _red and full of water,
 bald heads, and teeth like those of a wild boar; their motion is
 like an exceeding great tempest of the sea. For their sign there
 will appear an exceeding great rain about the circle.
 Their particular forms are—
 A king, like an archer, riding upon a doe.
 A little boy.
 .
 A huntress with bow and arrows.
 A cow.
 A little doe.
 A goose.
 A green or silver-colored garment.
 An arrow.
 A creature with many feet.
 Vide Agrippa, book 4, and Barrett's Magus.
 _
 ‘The hours of the planets have undoubted influence in_/lstrology, as any one who
 tries the experiment may soon prove; an explanation of which will be given hereafter.
nn__._'-I-_=II————‘———‘—--—
 22
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 The spirits of the moon rule over Monday. They are accom
 panied by tremendous and furious blasts of the west wind,* with
 clouds, showers, and hail, and, when powerfully invocated, their
 appearance has been known to have caused a most furious tem
 pest, so much so that the elements seemed involved in a general
 confusion.
 The nature of the LunarSpirits is to give silver, and to convey
 things from place to place, to make horses swift, and to disclose
 the secrets of persons both present and future.
 SPIRITS OF MARS
 The spirits of Mars appear, for the most part, in a body tall
 and choleric, a filthy countenance, of color brown, swarthy, or
 red, having horns like harts, and griffin’s claws; they come
 furiously bellowing like wild bulls. Their ilotion is like fire
 burning, and the signs of their appearance are thunder and
 lightning about the Magic Circle.
 Their particular forms are
 A king armed, riding on a wolf.
 An armed warrior.
 A female with spear and buckler.
 A she goat.
 A horse.
 A stag.
 A red garment.
 A quantity of wool.
 ’
 A cowslip.
 These spirits bear rule over Tuesday, and are under the east
 wind; they are best invocated upon that day, in the hour of Mars.
 ‘The following curious facts were related to me by three Occult students, of
 undoubted veracity, with whom I am acquainted, and who actually experienced them:—
 _"One night we resolved u on invocating the spirits of the moon, and accordingly,
 having prepared the circle, an used the necessary ceremonies and incantations, there
 suddenly came such a furious storm of rain and hail, and such a dreadful tempest arose,
 with such fearful blasts of wind, that the elements seemed as if waging war with each
 other; we ever moment expected the dome skyli ht over our heads would be shattered
 into a thousan ieces. The rain continued to fafi in gushing torrents the wind howled
 mournfully, an the lightning flashed in our faces, while the thunder actually shook
 the building to its foundations. Expecting these occurrences, we were nothing dis
 mayed thereat, but persisted, notwithstanding this fury of the elements, to urge the
 spirits more powerfully to visible appearance. What followed we cannot at present
 reveal: suflice it, we had ample proof of the reality of spiritual agency. At the close
 of our mystic labors, as we were dismissing the spirits by powerful restrictions, we
 were suddenly astonished b a tremendous noise, evidently supernatural; for, bad
 twenty parks of artillery, a undred loaded wagons, or a thousand pedestrians passed
 by at this period, the noise we heard could not have been equalled. It resem led the
 most furious crashes incessant cracking of whips trampling of horses, sounds of
 organs, and innumerable voices, united in an unintelligible jargon. It lasted for nearly
 twent minutes, without intermission, and then_ suddenly ceased! As soon as we could
 (which was almost on the instant the noise ceased), we rushed into the street, eagerly
 in uiring of the ardians of the ni ht if any vehicles or if any particular compan
 ha?! passed; but t ey all agreed none ad gone by. This was a little before two o’cloc
 in the morning (our ceremonies began at midnight), and the experiment was performed
 i: a now dilapidated, but once fashionable place of public resort, at the west end of
 t e town.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 '
 23
 Their nature is to bring or cause war, mortality, death, combus
 tions, and to perform strange exploits.
 SPIRITS OF MERCURY
 The spirits of Mercury appear, for the most part, in a body
 of a middle stature, cold, liquid, and moist, fair, and of an affable
 speech, in a human shape and form, like an armed knight, of
 clear and bright color. Their motion is like silver-colored clouds,
 and the sign of their appearance is an unaccountable horror and
 fear upon the invocator.
 Their particular forms are
 A king, riding upon a bear.
 A fair youth.
 A woman holding a distafi.
 A dog.
 A she bear.
 A magpie.
 A garment of various changeable colors.
 A rod or staff.
 These spirits are generally accompanied by a south-west wind,
 and are said to bear rule over Wednesday. Their nature is to
 give all sorts of metals, to reveal all earthly things, past, present,
 or future, to pacify judges, to give victory in war, to teach
 experiments and all ancient sciences, to change bodies mixed of
 elements, conditionally, out of one thing into another, to give
 health or infirmities, to raise the poor and humble the rich, to
 bind or loose spirits, to open constrictions, &c. They are easily
 brought to visible appearance.
 SPIRITS OF JUPITER
 These spirits appear with a body sanguine and choleric, of a
 middle stature, with a horrible fearful motion, but with a ‘mild
 countenance and a gentle speech, and of the color of iron. Their
 motion is accompanied with tremendous thunders and vivid light
 nings. The sign of their appearance is generally announced by
 numbers of imperfect and horrid forms, lions, &c.
 Their particular forms are—
 A king with a drawn sword, riding on a stag.
 A man wearing a mitre, clothed in long garments.
 A virgin adorned with flowers, and crowned with laurel.
 A bull fiercely roaring.
 A stag.
 A peacock.
 An azure garment.
 A sword.
 A box-tree.
24
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 They are said to bear rule over Thursday. They are accom
 panied by a south wind, very strong and powerful, resembling
 an hurricane: their nature is to procure the love of women, to
 cause men to be merry and joyful, to pacify strifes and conten
 tions, appease enemies, to heal diseases and cause sickness, to
 procure losses, and to restore what is lost. They are very difficult
 to be invocated or constrained.
 SPIRITS OF VENUS
 THE spirits of Venus appear with a fair body, of mean
 stature, with an amiable and pleasant countenance, of color white
 or green, their upper parts golden: their motion is like a clear
 star. For the sign of their coming there will appear innumerable
 forms of handsome maidens, in the most enticing forms.
 ‘
 Their particular forms are—
 A king with a sceptre, riding on a camel.
 A naked female.
 A she goat.
 A camel.
 A dove.
 A white or green garment.
 Flowers.
 The herb savine.
 They bear rule over Friday, which is the day of Venus; they
 are accompanied by a furious west wind, mingled with gentle
 zephyrs and invisible music, delightful to hear. Their nature is
 to give silver, to incline men and women to luxury, to cause
 marriages, to procure love, to take away infirmities, and to aid
 all things of a gentle and pacific nature. They are easily invo
 cated, and, according to the ancient Theurgists, may be con
 strained to visible appearance, in less space of time than other
 spirits.
 f
 iletbuh ®t Raising Qua ilnhutating Qpirits
 THE various Ancient Manuscripts relative to the fact of
 spiritual intercourse which I have consulted for the purpose of
 introducing the chief formula used upon this occasion all agree
 in declaring, that those who would invocate spirits must, for some
 days previously, prepare themselves to these high and mysterious
 ceremonies by living, in a manner, secluded from the rest of the
 world, being religiously disposed, and for three days at least must
 live free from sensual gratifications, and burn Temple Incense
 and Waxen Candles.
|

ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 25
 The place* chosen must be secluded, solitary,_ and isolated
 from the resort of men, where no business is carried on, where
 no unhallowed eye must enter, and where the pryings of curiosity
 remain ungratified. For this reason, unused buildings, free from
 the tread of human footsteps;i or in the midst of forests, lonely
 caves, or rocks by the sea-shore; or amidst the ruins of ancient
 bu/ildings, where the owl and the night raven alone are tenants,
 and where the general appearances indicate desolation and dark
 ness: these are the most proper places that can be chosen for the
 provoking of spirits to appear; it being remembered that all and
 every order of these unearthly agents are averse to visible appear
 ance, and, when they do appear, make use of the most terrific
 forms to aflrighten the student, and swerve him from his pur
 pose: all which, as well as the loudest thunders and most furious
 lightnings, the Invocator must accustom himself to see and hear
 without the least appearance of agitation; for, should his fears
 alarm and overpower him, the evil spirits would suddenly obtain
 the mastery, and, if they succeeded‘in getting him out of the
 sacred limits of the Magic Circle, his chief fortress and safe
 guard, his intsant destruction would be sure to follow; instances
 of which are not wanting on record: so that the Magic Operator
 must be a man of firm and undaunted courage, of ‘quick fore
 sight, and accustomed to hideous objects. He must also have
 two associates with him, who must be well acquainted with the
 Magic Rites, and particularly in dismissing the spirits; for, it
 must also be known, that it is far more easy to raise than to
 dismiss or lay a spirit, through the unaccountable antipathy which
 these invisible agents have towards the human race: and when
 once the settled laws of nature are broken through by invoking
 these supernatural beings, the Invocator is certainly in some
 considerable danger, having subjected himself to other powers,
 who will not be backward in using every advantage they may
 casually obtain unless the Invocator study with or be trained by
 a true Adept from India.
 The place being chosen, secure and free from interruption, the
 Invocator or Theurgist must choose the proper day and hour for
 working, according to the nature, order, and office of the spirit
 he would invocate, not forgetting that in the increase of the moon
 he must raise good, and in the decrease of the moon, evil spirits.
 He must also be provided with the seals of the earth, the seals of
 the spirit, and the sacred lamen or pentacle, the Magic Sword,
 vestment, and other instruments for the performance of his
 ' Some Theurgists affirm that the place used for Invocation must be either on a
 ground.floor or in some place _where no rooms that are inhabited may be on the same
 evcl' and thus a forest or retired grotto has been frequentl used.
 'l‘One of my advanced Occult students used a room which he kept always conse
 crated by burning Temple Incense in it every night fzactly at midnight, for the purpose
 of raisin spirits. On the_ floor he had the Magic Circle drawn, and it was never
 entered y any idle or curious intruder.
26
 .
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 purpose, the whole of which must be made and completed in the
 hour of Mercury.
The day and hour being chosen, the Theurgist must also pro
 vide himself with Temple Incense, and must exorcise or conse
 crate the place he would invocate in, by burning Temple Incense
 in it every evening at 11 P.M. for one week. He must then
 proceed to draw his circle, nine feet in diameter; within the outer
 circle, two concentric circles on a piece of Virgin Parchment four
 inches square must be made, and the four quarters of the world
 marked therein by a correct compass. In the midst, for divine
 protection, must be described the great and powerful names of
 God, Jehovah, Tetragrammaton, Adonai, Sadai, and appropriate
 inscriptions; taking care that the circles* be correctly formed, and
 duly joined and fortified with sacred crosses, within and without;
 the chalk or coal being first properly consecrated. The lights used
 upon the occasion must be of wax, and each Waren Candle set
 in a brass candlestick inclosed in a Magic Pentacle. The sword
 must be of pure steel, made expressly for the occasion; and,
 indeed, none of the instruments used must be ever devoted to any
 other purpose. All things being ready, he must, with his asso
 ciates, enter the circle in the proper planetary hour, and, having
 entered, must with the sword proceed to consecrate and close the
 circle in the accustomed manner, after which he must proceed as
 he thinks fit to adjure, constrain, and force the spirits to visible
 appearance; in doing which he must, as said before, be un
 daunted, firm, and confident, not despairing or impatient, but
 determined to bring his will and purpose to the desired effect.
 TO RAISE AN EVIL OR FAMILIAR SPIRIT
 Now, if the Theurgist would call an Evil Spirit to the Circle,
 he must first consider and know its nature, and to which of the
 planets it agrees; and what offices are distributed unto it from
 the planet. This being known, let there be sought out a place fit
 and convenient and proper for the invocation, according to the
 nature of the planet, and the quality of the offices of the same
 spirit, as near as it can be done; as if their power be over the sea,
 rivers, or floods, then let the place be the sea-shore, and so of the
 rest. Then choose a convenient time, both for the quality of the
 air (being serene, quiet, clear, and fitting for the spirits to assume
 bodies), as also of the quality and nature of the planet and the
 spirit, as on his day and time in which he rules; for he may be
 fortunate or unfortunate, sometimes in the day, and sometimes in
 the night, as the stars and spirits do require.
 These things being judiciously considered, let the Circle be
 * True Adepts describe the small concentric circles on virgin parchment, and
 consecrate them by burning Temple Incense.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 27
 made at the place elected, and in the circle write the proper
 names and characters, fortifying the same by proper pentacles
 and divine inscriptions; then let the Theurgist consecrate the
 Circle and everything he uses, which being done in a firm and
 solemn manner, he must proceed with his incantations, turning
 to each of the four quarters, reiterating the same. Then let him
 look around, to see if any spirit does appear, which if he delays,
 then let him‘ repeat his Invocation, as above said, three times;
 and if the spirit is obstinate and will not appear, then let the
 Theurgist begin to adjure it with divine power, but so that all his
 adjurations do agree with the nature and office of the spirit; and
 thus he shall effect his purpose. When the spirit appears, let the
 Theurgist turn himself towards it, courteou_sly receiving it, and
 demanding answers to his questions; but if the spirit shall be
 obstinate, ambiguous, lying, or else refractory, let the Theurgist
 bind it by repeated conjurations, and, if you doubt any thing,
 make, without the circle, with the consecrated sword, the figure
 of a triangle or pentagon, and compel the spirit to enter into it:
 then, having obtained of the spirit that which you desire, license*
 it to depart, with courteous words, giving it command that it do
 no hurt; and, if it will not depart, compel it by powerful conjura
 tions; and, if need require, expel it by exorcisms and sufIumiga
 tions. And, when it is departed, go not immediately out of the
 Circle, but make a stay, and use some prayer, giving thanks to
 God and the good angels, praying also for your future defence
 and preservation, after which being done, you may depart.
 ON THE MOTION OF THE FIXED STARS
 ALL these still keep one course, and all pursue
 Their constant track, nor vary in a new:
 From one fixed point they start, their course maintain,
 Repeat their whirl, and visit it again:
 And this is strange, and this doth more surprise
 That such unwieldy frames their signs should draw,
 As moved by reason, and confined by law;
 No change in distance nor in site appear,
 Though great in number, long the rolling year!
 ‘They who neglect licensing the spirits to depart are in very great danger,
 because instances have been known of the operator experiencing sudden death.
28
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE CIRCLE FOR RAISING THE SPIRIT EGIN
 METHOD OF RAISING THE MIGHTY AND
 POWERFUL SPIRIT
 ©gin, #ing @f (Lije 320rth
 ExTRACTED FROM AN ANCIENT MANUSCRIPT
 THE Theurgist must call this spirit in a fair chamber or
 quadrant, twenty or twenty-four feet at the most in breadth, in
 every part a window, a cubit wide, or a little more, east, west,
 north, and south. *The floor of the chamber must be paved,
 bordered, or plastered, very plain and close, so that he may make
 his circle thereon with chalk or coal, that it may be perfectly
 seen. This house or chamber must be in a void place, and not
 near the intercourse of men; for the opinion of some expert men
 in this art is, that spirits are more willing to appear in some waste
 place, as in woods, heaths, fens, moors, downs, or in any place
 where there is no resort, nor where any of the sacraments have
 been administered; for otherwise thy purpose will not be effected.
 Therefore be warned.
 * It is to be remembered that the surrounding scenery has nothing to do with the
 circle, but is merely an embellishment.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 29
 The weather must also be observed, for all weathers are not
 good for thy work; wherefore, when thou wilt begin thy work,
 see that the air is clear, and, if it be in the day, see that the sun
 shine; and, if it be in the night, let the moon be unobscured, or
 the sky full of stars; but take heed of foul or close weather, for
 in those the spirit will not be visible; and why? because it cannot
 receive bodily form or shape from the elements; wherefore select
 f
 ine weather, for the spirit much delighteth therein.
 The spirit must also be invocated on even days of the moon,
 and in his proper hour, although some Theurgists say they have
 began in the new moon, and it hath been thirty days’ labor before
 they could effect their entire purpose; therefore, let not this work
 seem tedious, nor think for one day being spent fruitlessly that
 thou wilt not effect thy purpose, seeing that expert Disciples have
 spent several days before they could obtain an appearance. This
 being performed, thy circle must be of the above form.
 THE INCANTATIONS
 F1Rs'r.—To Bind The Ground, Whereby Neither Mortal Nor
 Spiritual Beings Can Have Power To Approach Within A
 Limited Distance.
 *Having made your necessary sufiumigations and mystic
 preparations, describe a circle of a hundred feet or more in diam
 eter, or as much more or less as you may think fit; and, if you
 wish to keep all living creatures from within a quarter of a mile
 or more of your experiment, make, at the four parts of the same.
 east, west, north, and south, proper crosses, and devoutly pro
 nounce thrice the following incantation :—1'
 In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
 Ghost, Amen. I bind all mortal and immortal, celestial and ter
 restrial, visible and invisible beings, except those spirits whom I
 have occasion to call, to avoid and quit this space of ground,
 which I now mark, and wherein I now stand, and that with all
 possible speed and despatch. I bind you to avoid and no longer
 to tarry, by the unspeakable power of Almighty God, by the most
 high and mighty name of + Tetragrammaton + by the all-pow
 erful names —|— Agla-1- Saday-1- ./esu + Messias + Alpha +
 and + Omega +. By all these most high and powerful names,
 I charge, adjure, bind, and constrain both mortal and immortal,
 ‘The Ancient Manuscript from which this is taken is valued at Ten Thousand
 dollars, and was formerly in the possession of a great Master Adept, but is now in the
 possession of the_ Author.
 _
 _
 _
 TThese curious proceedings are copied literally from the Ancient Manuscript
 before spoken of, and I have given the same orthography to the Latin and Hebrew
 words as in the original, and, notwithstanding some part may be found rather defective
 _
 when compared with these lan uages as they are now used, yet the high antiquity of
 the Ancient Manuscri t will e a sufficient excuse for the difierence in point of
 elegance, should there e any.
30
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 terrestrial, celestial, visible, and invisible beings to avoid, quit, and
 depart this ground, and do request that none of you, except those
 I have occasion to call at this time, be sufiered to come within
 these sacred limits. These things I request in the name of the
 Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.
 Then dig a foot depth at the four parts of the compass, and
 bury in the Earth a piece of Virgin Parchment 3 inches square
 in each part, and no power, either visible or invisible, shall have
 power to come near thee, or to interrupt thy proceedings.
FORM IN WHICH THE SPIRIT USUALLY APPEARS
 CHAPTER III
 INCANTATIONS FOR INVOKING
 THE SPIRIT TO INVISIBLE APPEARANCE
 I conjure thee, Egin, Rex Borealis, and also charge thee that
 thou appear here before me, and before this circle, by the suf
 ferance of Almighty God, and by the virtue of his passion and
 other sentences which here shall be rehearsed, to bind and con
 strain thee.
 I conjure thee, Egin, by the Father, the Son, and the Holy
 Ghost, and by the heavens, the air, the earth, and the sea, and by
 all that therein is contained, that thou come shortly, and appear to
 me and my fellows, not terrible nor fearful, but in mild and peace
 able form, without hurt or envy to any of us.
 I conjure thee, Egin, by all the holy words that God spoke in
 the creation of the world, and by all creatures visible and invisible,
 and by the four elements, and by the virtue of heaven, and by all
 the holy words that God spake unto Moses, and to all other
 prophets, and by the incarnation, passion, death, and resurrection,
 of the mild and ineflable Savior of all mankind.
 31
32
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 I conjure thee, Egin, by the general resurrection, and by the
 dreadful day of judgment; I conjure thee, Egin, by the coming of
 the Holy Ghost; I conjure thee, also, by the virtue of all the
 spirits of the just, and by the most holy patriarchs, apostles,
 evangelists, and by the most holy saints of all ages.
 I conjure thee, Egin, by the mercy, grace, and power of God;
 I conjure thee, thou spirit Egin, under the pain of condemnation,
 and thy fearful doom at the great day of judgment; I conjure
 thee, Egin, by the great curse of God; I conjure thee, Egin, by all
 the high names of God; I conjure thee by the high power and
 strength of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the heavenly
 King of glory; and I conjure thee by the whole of these, in what
 place of the world soever thou art, to appear instantly before me
 in the likeness of a child of three years old, and that, without
 fear, hurt, or envy, thou fulfil my request.
 REPLICATORY INCANTATIONS
 If, at the third rehearsal of the above mystic ceremonial, the
 spirit refuses to appear, prepare a fume of sweet-smelling savors,
 such as frankincense, aloes, cinnamon, oil olives, nutmegs, musk,
 cassia, roses, saffron, and white wax; which must be burnt,
 commixed together, on a fire consecrated for the purpose; and,
 while the fume is forming, and the fire fiercely burning, repeat
 what follows:–-
 I conjure thee, Egin, and command thee instantly to appear
 before me, by the virtue of the sentences and words hereafter
 written, upon pain of the most awful and bitter maledictions of
 Almighty God.
 I conjure thee, O thou spirit Egan, that thou arise and appear
 to us, by the might, majesty, and power of the FIRST word that
 our Lord spake, in the creation of the world, when he made the
 light to shine, and said, “Lux et facta, est lux.”
 I conjure thee, by the SECOND word that he spake when he
 made the firmament, and said, “Fiat firmamentum in medico
 aquas, et deinde aquas ab aquis.”
 I conjure thee, by the THIRD word, when he gathered all the
 waters that were under heaven into one place, saying, “Congre
 gentur aque que sub coelo sunt et apparia mida.”
 I conjure thee, by the FOURTH word, which he spake when he
 made to spring forth trees and herbs, “Germinat terram herba
 veroli facientur semen cum semendi teipso sit super terram.”
 I conjure thee, by virtue of the FIFTH word, when he made
 the Q, P, and * *.*, saying, “Fiat luminaria magna in firma
 mento cali ut illuminare terram.”
.
 .
 "
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 33
 I conjure thee, by the SIXTH word, which he spake when he
 made birds, fishes, &c. “Producat aque reptile aere virentes et
 voluntate super terram sub firmamento calo.”
 I conjure thee, by the virtue of the SEVENTH word, which he
 spake when he blessed them, saying, “Crescite et multiplicamini
 et reptiliaquas maris oves multiplicantur super terram.”
 I conjure thee, by the EIGHTH word, which he spake when he
 made beasts, worms, and serpents, “Ducat terram aliam in genero
 suo immenta et reptilia secondum specias scias.”
 I conjure thee, by virtue of the NINTH word, when he made
 man in his own image, saying, “Faciamus homo ad imagine et
 similitudine nostra et per sit pissibus et volatibus que cali et
 bestias terre et universe creature qui reptile que monentur in
 terra.”
 I conjure thee, O thou spirit Egin, instantly to appear, by
 virtue of the TENTH word, which he spake when he placed Adam
 and Eve in Paradise, saying, “Crescite et multiplicamini et replete
 terra subjugate eam et semite vivi pissibus maris, et volatibus
 caeli et bestias terre, et universus animalibus que quem monentus
 super terra.” “Et per hac verba, conjuro te, spiritus Egin.”
 Lastly, I conjure, charge, bind, and command thee, O thou
 mighty and invincible spirit Egin, by these most high, powerful,
 and ineffable names of the most highest— + Jesus + Fons +
 Salvator + Christus + Sabaoth + Adonay + Graton + Messias
 + Victor + Osanna + Nazarenus + Theas + Emmanuel +
 Unigenitus + Primogenitus + Alpha + et Omega + and by the
 great, supreme, and all-powerful name nin'5 which all creatures
 obey, at which the elements are moved, and the devils fear and
 tremble. By all these tremendous and awful names, I charge
 thee, finally, to appear before me. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
 These things being rightly performed, with a rushing sound,
 “as of many waters,” and a tremendous noise, will the spirit
 appear, and by powerful invocations thou shalt obtain what thou
 wishest. But let thy proceedings herein be secret, and beware
 of vain curiosity; for these mysteries are sacred.
34
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 FORM IN WHICH THE SPIRIT OBERION APPEARS
 TO INVOKE OR RAISE THE SPIRIT OBERION*
 THIS mighty spirit is chiefly under the dominion of the sun
 and moon. He appears in great pomp and terror, generally in the
 form of a Scaly Monster, the face of a woman, and a royal crown
 upon his head, attended by innumerable and countless legions.
 The Theurgist who would raise or invocate this powerful
 spirit must, in the first place, draw out his Seal and Character,
 and the different offices subservient to him, in the first Monday
 after the full moon, and in the hour of the Moon, Mars, Mercury,
 or Saturn: and when these are made, he must repeat the follow
 ing ceremonial words:—
 O yeangels of the sun and moon, I now conjure and pray you,
 and exorcise you, that by the virtue and power of the most high
 God, Alpha and Omega, and by the name that is marvellous +
 El +, and by him that made and formed you, and by these signs
 that be here, so drawn forth in these resemblances, and now in
 the might and virtue of your Creator, and in the name of him the
 most shining God, and by the virtue of the Holy Ghost, that now,
 or whensoever that I shall call on Oberion, whose image is here
 *From an Ancient Manuscript in the possession of the author.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE CIRCLE FOR RAISING OBERION
 35
 pictured, made, or fashioned, and his name that is here written,
 and his signs here all drawn and graven, written, or made, that
 Oberion be compelled now to obey me, and here to appear openly
 before me, and fulfil my request.
 The next day, write or make the name of his first counsellor,
 Caberyon, and that on the right side of Oberion’s character, say
 ing, 1 exorcise thee, Caberyon, by the power of God, and by the
 virtue of all heavenly kings, earthly kings, and infernal kings, and
 by king Solomon, who bound thee, and made thee subject unto
 him, and by all his signs and seals, and by the four elements, by
 which the world is sustained and nourished, and by the serpent
 that was exalted in the wilderness,—that thou, Caberyon, now
 help to give true council to thy Lora‘ Oberion, that he do show
 himself instantly unto me, and fulfil my request.
 This must be said three times each day, and three times each
 night, over the writings.
 The third day, in the third hour, write and make the name of
 his other counsellor Ceveyron, with his signs and characters, and
 do and say as before rehearsed.
36
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 This done, suffumigate your seals and writings with a suf
 fumigation of saffron, aloes, mastic, olibanum, and orpient; and
 note that the fire used for this purpose must be of elder-wood or
 thorns.
 Then choose a secret and retired place, where no human foot
 steps may interrupt thee, and make thy circle according to the
 form shown on page 35.
 INCANTATIONS
 The circle being made, and consecrated according to the rules
 of Ceremonial Magic, enter therein, in the hour of Mercury, and
 begin the Invocations in this manner, on bended knees, and with
 great devotion.
 I conjure, invocate, and call thee, Oberion, by the Father, the
 Son, and the Holy Ghost, and by Him who said, and it was done;
 who commanded, and it stood fast, who willed, and it was
 created; and by his Son JESUS CHRIST, in whose name, all
 heavenly, earthly, and infernal creatures do bend and obey; and
 by the unutterable name of ineffable majesty + Tetragrammaton
 + O thou spirit Oberion, I command thee, whithersoever thou
 now art, whether in sea, fire, air, or flood, whether in the air
 above or in the region beneath, to appear instantly unto me, and
 my fellows, without hurting me or them, or any other living
 creature which God has made. This I thrice command thee, in
 the name of the ineffable Adonai. Amen.
 If, at the third repetition of this invocation, the spirit gives no
 visible token of his appearance (for generally, previously to the
 actual appearance of the spirit, there are heard tremendous noises
 and frightful hissings, tumultuous yellings, and fearful shrieks);
 then begin to rehearse the following great bond or incantation,
 and if the spirit were bound in chains of darkness, in the lowest
 pit of the infernal regions, he must appear, when this great sen
 tence is rehearsed.
 THE GREAT AND POWERFUL INCANTATION
 FoR CoMPELLING SPIRITs To Visible APPEARANCE
 O thou rebellious and fearful spirit, prince amongst the fallen
 angels, Oberion, I conjure and bind thee to visible appearance by
 the following most high, most terrible, and mighty invocation:—
 * Hear, O ye heavens, and I will speak, saith the Lord, and let
 the sea, the earth—yea, hell, and all that is within them contained,
spirit.
 #This great call or Invocation is said to be equally powerful in raising any other
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 37
 mark the words of my mouth: Did not I, saith the Lord, fashion
 you, and make you? Did not I, as an eagle, who stirreth her nest,
 fluttereth over her young ones with her wings, and carrieth them
 on her shoulders? have I not so nourished you, that you were fat,
 and loaden with plenty? Why have you, then, so spurned with
 your heels against me, your Maker? Why have you seemed to
 coequal yourselves with me? What thereby have you reaped?
 Have you not purchased, instead of that heavenly felicity, hellish
 perplexity? How have you that fire kindled which doth and shall
 for ever, at my pleasure, burn you in the bottomless pit of perdi
 tion? Why are you so unfaithful and disobedient to my most
 holy names and words? Know you not that I am God alone, and
 that there is none but me? Am not I the only nin'. Is it not in
 my power to kill and make alive—to wound and to heal—to
 oppress and to deliver? If I whet the edge of my sword, and my
 hand take hold of it, to do justice against them who disobey my
 holy name, who are able to abide the same? To have their sword,
 eat their flesh, and my sharp arrows of hell fire to be drunk in
 their blood? Which of you that are disobedient to my name
 (saith the Lord) is able to withstand mine anger? Am not I Lord
 of Lords, and omnipotent, and none but I? Who can command
 the heavens to smoke, the earth to fear, the waters to flow, and
 hell to tremble? Are not the corners of them all in my hands?
 O thou obstinate and stubborn spirit, why hast thou dealt so
 froward with me (saith the Lord), to urge me to command my
 faithful servant MICHAEL, my valiant champion, to expel and put
 thee out of the place where thou wast filled with wisdom and
 understanding, continually beholding my wondrous works? Didst
 not thou see my glory with thine eyes, and did not thy ears hear
 the majesty of my voice? Why art thou gone out of the way?
 Why art thou become an open sepulchre? With thy tongue dost
 thou deceive my servants, for poison is under thy lips, thy mouth
 is full of cursing and bitterness, and thy feet are swift to shed
 innocent blood. Is this the obedience thou owest unto me, and
 the service thou offerest?. Verily, for this thy obstinacy, dis
 obedience, pride, and rebellion, thou shalt be bound, and most
 cruelly tormented with intolerable pains and endless and eternal
 ...
 perditi
 *#ifthespirit be still rebellious or refractory, make a fire
 of brimstone and stinking substances, thorns, and briars, &c.
 Then write the name of the spirit in virgin parchment, and burn
 it thrice, repeating the following adjuration:—
 I conjure thee, creature of God, FIRE, by him who commanded
 and all things were done, and by the LIVING God, and by the
 TRUE God, and by the HOLY God, and by him who made thee and
 all elements by his word, by him who appeared to Moses in a
 fiery bush, and by him who led the children of Israel in a fiery
38
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 pillar, through the wilderness, and by him who shall come to
 judge the world by fire and brimstone, that thou perform my will
 upon this refractory and disobedient spirit; till he come unto me,
 and show himself obedient in all things as I shall command him.
 O heavenly God, father and author of all virtues, and the invisible
 king of glory, most strong and mighty captain of the strong and
 triumphant arm of angels, God of gods, Lord of hosts, which
 holdest on thy hands the corners of the earth, which with the
 breath of thy mouth makest all things to shake and tremble, which
 makest thy angels lightnings, and thy spirits flames of fire, vouch
 safe, I beseech thee, O Lord, to send thy holy angels into this
 place of fire, to torment, vex, and persecute this disobedient spirit,
 Oberion, and overcome him, as Michael the archangel overcame
 Lucifer, the prince of darkness, till he come to me, and fulfil all
 my will and desire. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
 O thou most puissant prince Radamanthus, which dost punish
 in thy prison of perpetual perplexity, the disobedient spirits, and
 also the grisly ghosts of men dying in dreadful despair, I conjure,
 bind, and charge thee, by Lucifer, Beelzebub, Satan, Tamanill,
 and by their power, and by the homage thou owest unto them;
 and also I charge thee, by the triple crown of Cerberus, by Styx,
 and Phlegethon, by the spirit Barantos, and his ministers, that
 you torment and punish this disobedient spirit Oberion, until you
 make him come corporeally to my sight, and obey my will and
 commandment in whatsoever I shall charge or command him to
 do. Fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
 These things being rightly performed, the spirit will be con
 strained to visible appearance: but, after the above incantation,
 he will come in a very horrible and ghastly form, and attended by
 terrible convulsions of the elements, raging furiously, and assum
 ing every terrific appearance that is possible, to frighten the
 Invocator. And for which purpose, roaring lions, hissing ser
 pents, and furious beasts, with all the mighty horrors of the
 infernal regions, and every other possible attempt, will be made
 to cause terror and alarm. At this juncture, if the magic circle
 be not well made and fortified, the Invocator will be in the utmost
 peril, and if he escape with his life may deem himself fortunate;
 but, if the circle be properly made, there is no fear from the
 assaults of this rebellious and wicked one, who must become
 obedient when thus exorcised.
 After the spirit has appeared, and performed thy will and
 request, it is to be well observed, that the utmost caution must be
 used in quitting the limits of the Magic Circle. For this end, the
 Theurgist must devoutly rehearse the following license.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 A LICENSE FOR TO DISCHARGE SPIRITS
 39
 I CONJURE thee (Oberion) by the visible and holy temple of
 Solomon, which he did prepare to the most holy God, by all the
 elements, and by that most holy name that was graven on Solo
 mon’s sceptre, that, for this time, thou do depart quickly, quietly,
 and peaceably, without lightnings, thunder, rain, wind, storm, or
 tempest, or any noise or terror whatsoever; ’and, whensoever I
 shall call thee, I charge thee that thou do come to me and my
 fellows, iwthout delay or tract of time, not molesting me or any
 other creature that God hath made to his glory and praise, and the
 use of man, or without disordering any thing, putting up or cast
 inlg down any thing, or doing hurt any other way whatsoever,
 either in thy coming or going, not hurting, troubling, or molesting
 me, or any other creature, neither by thyself, nor any other spirit
 or spirits for thee, or at thy procurement, at any time or times,
 now or hereafter; by the virtue of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
 Father, and the Holy Ghost, go thy way in peace to the place
 which God hath appointed for thee, and peace be between thee
 and me. In nomine patris + et filii, + et spiritus sancti + Amen.
 The Theurgist must repeat this license three times, and after
 wards repeating the Lord’s Prayer, must leave the circle, walking
 backwards. He must then destroy all traces of the circle, and
 remove all instruments used for the purpose, keeping the whole
 .
 as secret as possible; and must also return home by a different
 path to that by which he came. So shall no spirit have power
 to harm him, but let him upon no account neglect any of the fore
 going rules, for they are essential to his safety.
 Such were the Mystic Rights, Ceremonies, and Incantations,
 used by the ancient Theurgists to burst asunder the bonds of
 natural order, and to obtain an awful intercourse with the world
 of spirits,—a study, to the wild sublimity of which modern times
 afford no parallel,—a study which at once evinces the bold and
 lofty daring of the Old Master Adepts and Ancient Theurgists,
 who, not content with vanquishing earthly foes and quenching
 mortal feuds, strove to tear asunder the restrictive bonds of this
 elementary world, to combat with the dread inhabitants of the
 spiritual regions, and to subject to their service the invincible
 powers of light and darkness—mighty spirits, who, according to
 their account, came attended with such tremendous powers, and
 such awful attributes, that the mere mention of their appearances
 is enough to cause two-thirds Of the W888"! Steptical generation
 to shrink back and tremble.
40
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ANCIENT METHOD OF INVOKING THE DEAD
 QB: isaising flibe fipirtt ®t Q Eeparteh fiersun
 HAVING previously shown and elucidated the Rites and Cere
 monies made use of by Ancient Masters for invocating both
 celestial, terrestrial, and familiar spirits,_I will now treat of the
 Necromantic art which teaches the method of holding an inter
 course with the spirits of departed persons.
 To the honor of the present century, I have had but few
 instances of persons excepting my personal students openly and
 publiclyentering into a compact with spirits, or of professing to
 resolve questions in futurity by means of their agency; neither
 have I but one authenticated instance of necromancy; but, in
 former times, these practices were no uncommon thing, and those
 who had an opportunity of blending classical learning and
 scientific speculation with it, were esteemed the most elevated
 characters of their day, and were frequently honored with the
 protection and confidence of princes and nobles.*
 The cause of the paucity of these attempts, and also of the
 appearances of evil spirits, in our days, is because “the fulness of
 time” has been gradually dispelling the mists of heresy and
 idolatry, even as the sun doth the fogs, which vanish on his
 appearance; not by any violence or compulsion, but from a cause
 implanted in the nature of things and their opposites. Even so
 the kingdom of light, as it overspreads the soul in power and
 dominion, closes up the centre of darkness, and scatters the
 influence of evil before it, who becomes, as it were, entirely
 passive as to the works and will of man.
 In a former part of this CHAPTER I have given a concise illus
 tration of the nature and offices of spirits, both good and evil,
 which will serve as matter of much curious inquiry to the inquisi
 tive reader, and which, indeed, is the substance of those numerous
 stupendous tomes which mystified the world in the sixteenth and
 seventeenth centuries, but which are now only to be found in the
 libraries of cabinets of the curious. Yet, notwithstanding I have
 been as copious as possible, this subject is so intricate and diversi
 f
 ied in itself, that to attempt an ample demonstration of the
 matter would require deeper speculation than the subject deserves,
 or than we are masters of, particularly as the inhabitants of these
 spiritual kingdoms are never in one regular stay, continuance, or
 property, but, from one hour to another, are continually floating
 and changing. Like the swiftness of the winds, or the gliding
 along of running waters, which pass away as a thought, and are
 no more remembered; so, also, it is with the devils and infernal
 spirits, in that lachrymable state of darkness, where their exist
 h 'It is not accounted sinful to invoke spirits, unless an evil compact be formed with
 t em.
RAISING THE SOUL OF I DEAD PERSON
 This Illustration Faces Page 40.

ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 41
 ence is a continual anguish and torment, shifting from the pangs
 of one sorrow to the bitterness of another, to all eternity!
 A very remarkable instance of Necromancy in former times
 is that related by Weaver, in his “Funeral Monuments.”
 He there records that Edward Kelly, a Magician, with one
 Paul Waring (who acted in the capacity of companion and asso
 ciate in all his conjurations), went together to the church-yard
 of Walton-le-dale, in the county of Lancaster, where they had
 information of a person being recently interred, who was sup
 posed to have hidden or buried a considerable sum of money, and
 to have died without disclosing to any person where it was
 deposited. He proceeds to state, that they entered the church
 yard exactly at twelve o'clock at night; and, having had the grave
 pointed out to them the preceding day, they exorcised the spirit
 of the deceased, by Magical Spells and Incantations, till it
 appeared before them; and not only satisfied their wicked desires
 and inquiries, but delivered several strange predictions concern
 ing persons in that neighborhood, which were literally and exactly
 fulfilled.
 PROCEEDINGS IN THE NECROMANTIC ART
 The process in this respect differs materially from the
 Theurgic Art before explained; for, in the first place, the person
 being fixed on whose apparition is to be invoked, or brought up,
 the magician, with his assistant, must repair to the church-yard
 or tomb where the deceased was buried, exactly at midnight, as
 the ceremony can only be performed in the night, between the
 hours of twelve and one.
 The grave is first to be opened, or an aperture made, by which
 access may be had to the naked body. The magician having
 described the circle, and holding an hazel wand in his hand, of
 one year's growth, while his companion or assistant beareth a
 consecrated torch, he turns himself to all the four winds, and,
 £the deadbody three times with his wand, repeats as
 ollows:
THE NECROMANTIC SPELL OR INCANTATION
 By the virtue of the holy resurrection, and the torments of the
 damned, I conjure and exorcise thee, spirit of (N.) deceased,
 whose body here lies, to answer my liege demands, being obedient
 unto these mystic and sacred ceremonies, on pain of everlasting
 torment and distress.
 Then let him say, “Berald, Beroald, Balbin gal gabor aguba;”
 Arise, arise, I charge and command thee.
 After which forms and ceremonies the ghost or apparition
 will become visible, and will answer to any questions put to it by
 the exorcist.
42
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE SPIRIT OF A SUICIDE
 But, if it be desired to put any interrogatories to the spirit of
 any corpse that hath hanged, drowned, or otherwise made away
 with itself, the incantation must be performed while the body
 hangs, or on the spot where it is first found after the suicide hath
 been committed, and before it is touched or removed by the
 coroner's jury.
 CEREMONY FOR RAISING THE SPIRIT OF ONE WHO
 HATH COMMITTED SUICIDE
 IN this case, the Exorcist, being prepared with the Pentacles
 of *Solomon, the two seals of the earth, and other necessaries, he
 must bind upon the top of his wand, a bundle of St. John's wort
 (milies perforatum), with the head of an owl; and, having
 repaired to the spot where the corpse of the self-murderer lies,
 at the solemn hour of midnight, precisely at twelve o'clock, he
 must draw the circle, and, having entered it, solemnly repeat the
 following words:—
 THE INCANTATIONS
 By the mysteries of the deep, by the flames of Banal, by the
 power of the east, and the silence of the night, by the holy rites
 of Hecate, I conjure and exorcise thee, thou distressed spirit, to
 present thyself here, and reveal unto me the cause of thy calam
 ity, why thou didst offer violence to thy own liege life, where thou
 art now in being, and where thou wilt hereafter be.
 He then, gently smiting the carcass nine times with the wand,
 says as follows:—
 I conjure thee, thou spirit of (N.) deceased, to answer my
 demands that I am to propound unto thee, as thou ever hopest for
 the rest of the holy ones, and ease of all thy misery; by the blood
 of + Jesus + which he shed for thy soul, I conjure and bind
 thee to utter unto me what I shall ask thee.
 Then, cutting down the carcass from the tree, they lay his
 head toward the east; and in the space that this following incan
 tation is repeating, they set a chafingdish of fire at his right hand,
 into which they pour a little wine, some mastic, and gum aromatic,
 and, lastly, a vialful of the sweetest oil, having also a pair of
 bellows, and some unkindled charcoal, to make the fire burn
 #attheinstant of the carcass's rising. The third incantation
 1S thus :
 I conjure thee, thou spirit of (N.) that thou do immediately
 enter into thy ancient body again, and answer to my demands: by
 "These Seals of Solomon are to be had only in “THE GREATER KEY of SoLoMon.”
 published by Messrs. de Laurence, Scott & Co.
 ,
|

ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 43
 the virtue of the holy resurrection, and by the posture of the body
 of the Saviour of the world, I charge thee, I conjure, I command
 thee, on pain of the torments and wandering of thrice seven years,
 which I, by the force of sacred magic rites, have power to inflict
 upon thee, by the sighs and groans, I conjure thee to utter thy
 voice; so help thee God, and the prayers of the holy church.
 Amen.
 Which ceremony being thrice repeated, while the fire is burn
 ing with mastic and gum aromatic, the body will begin to rise,
 and at last will stand upright before the exorcist, answering with
 a faint and hollow voice the questions propounded unto it: why
 it destroyed itself,-where its dwelling is,—what its life is,—how
 long it will be ere it enter into rest,—and by what means the
 exorcist may assist it to come thereto: also of the treasures of
 this world,—where they are hid. Moreover, it can answer very
 punctually of the places where ghosts reside, and how to com
 municate with them; teaching the nature of astral spirits and
 infernal beings, so far as its capacity reacheth. All which, when
 the ghost has fully answered, the exorcist ought, out of com
 miseration and reverence to the deceased, to use what means can
 possibly be used, for the procuring rest unto the spirit.
 To which effect he must dig a grave, and, filling the same half
 full of quick lime, with a little salt and common sulphur, he must
 put the carcass naked into it; which experiment, next to the burn
 ing the body into ashes, is of great force to quiet and end the
 disturbance of the astral spirit.
CHAPTER IV
 RARE EXTRACTS FROM THE TRANSLATION
 *!\ubens Iatin manustript
 EXTRACT ONE
 “Ir, then, love, in union with humility, is, in an inferior sense,
 perfection in this world already, it must needs be that which is
 perfect in the highest fulness of perfection in the world to come:
 when this mysterious and prophetical character (said to have
 been the seal of David, that great warrior, and of, Solomon, that
 prince of peace, and that eminent lover of wisd0m,——when this
 character, denoting hieroglyphically the spiritual signature both
 of David and of Solomon; denoting the two eternal principles
 in union; denoting the creation of the third principle; denoting
 the six working properties of eternal nature in their everlasting
 rest; denoting fire and water in an harmonious union; denoting
 the two tinctures restored into ONE, who is ALL in ALL, or with
 out whom there can be nothing; denoting that all whatever was,
 or is, or shall be, is of, and through, and to, that ONE; denoting
 almost the whole instance of time and eternity, as the same, in
 our age, is laid open by Jacob Behmen, that blessed instrument in
 '
 the hands of the Spirit of God; on which account, I may justly
 call this seal or character prophetical:) when this character, I
 '_'A translation of the famous Latin MSS. b Sir P. Rubens, annexed to his
 treatise on the Pro ortions of the Human Figure, abalistic Principles, &c. &c. This
 valuable morc_eau 0 antiquity was sold at Hugier's famous sale at Paris, and purchased
 by the late Richard Cosway, Esq. R. A.
 44
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS I
 45
 say, spiritualized, and only with additionof a cross, which is not
 expressed therein directly (and no wonder that it was not in those
 days), shall be the broad seal, not only of the eternal King of
 kings, but also of every one.of his subjects; and not only of that
 everlasting kingdom of Light and Glory, but also of every indi
 vidual inhabitant thereof ; although not in all of the same size, but
 in some broader, and in others narrower, yet, in all of them, from
 the highest to the lowest, the very same, as to its spiritual shape
 and figure. Amen, Hallelujah!”
 EXTRACT TWO
 Being Part Of An Explanation Of Three Wonderful Tables,
 Representing The Three States Of Man, Viz. His Perfect
 State, His Fallen State, And His Restored State.
 Though Adam was really created in this world, even upon
 earth, and introduced into Paradise, which was upon, or was
 greening or budding forth through this earth, yet still his distance
 from, and his height above it, was so great, that no spirit of
 reason—no, not in the best mathematician, shall ever be able to
 measure it; for that paradisaical earth, of which his body was
 made, was so distant from, and above, what we now call earth,
 as Paradise (which is still extant in the same place where it was
 then, and is not destroyed by the deluge, as reason fancies, but is
 only covered by the curse) is distant from, and as high above, the
 beastlike body of an earthly man that is to be turned into dust,
 though he may be buried upon the same spot of ground which
 Paradise did formerly green upon. So, therefore, what is here
 meant, is not such a distance, nor such a height, as may be
 measured by measuring lines, and may, nevertheless, be justly so
 called; but it is such a one as runs (in an inferior sphere)
 parallel with that superior sense which we take in mind, when we
 consider the three principles in a mutual relation. The first
 principle is still in the second, and the second in the first; and
THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 46
 we may truly say, that heaven is in hell, and hell in heaven,
 seeing they are both within ourselves; and yet the_second is at
 such a height above the first, and the first at such a distance under
 the second, and such a great gulf is fixed between them, that none
 (as Abraham said to Dives) can pass, neither from the one side
 nor the other] The two eternal principles are both together in
 this temporal third principle (or outward world), and in every
 thing therein; and yet this third is in the same distance under
 them, and they in the same height above it in which time is under
 eternity, and eternity above time; and G01) himself, ‘in whom we
 move and have our being,’ is nearer to us than we are to our
 selves; and is yet at such a distant height above us, that only the
 true spirit of the soul can attain to a real perception of Him; and
 that the Scripture calls the earth his footstool, and says that
 heaven, and the heaven of heavens, cannot contain him. The
 place of man’s nativity in the middle, between time and eternity,
 wherein he was touched by this or that, is the only thing, on
 account of which it was said in the beginning, that this (the first)
 table did represent him in his primitive state of his integrity.
 For all his graces, perfections, virtues, powers, and glories, he
 was endowed and gifted with, and especially all those excellent
 particulars related and declared by Jacob Behmen, concerning the
 manner of his eating, drinking, seeing, never sleeping, &c. are all
 found necessarily depending hereupon, and flowing freely forth
 from this his standing in the middle, and being touched from that
 which was above, as well as from that which was‘under him. So
 that, by naming only this place of his nativity, all his perfections
 are named also implicitly, and want not at all to be enumerated
 distinctly to the spirit of understanding, to whom it is plain and
 clear that Adam could not have had them, if his station had been
 either higher or lower. For, if it had been lower, and he had not
 been touched by the Spirit of eternity, he must needs have been a
 creature belonging only to this third temporal principle, and a
 subject of the astral spirit of this world, though he might have
 been the noblest, and of the highest rank and quality among all
 his subjects; he could not have had such a dominion, as really
 he had, over all the creatures of this third principle, and over the
 astral spirit of this world: and, what is of the greatest considera
 tion, he could not have had the two tinctures united in one in his
 own single person; but must, of all necessity, have been made
 male and female in two distinct and divided bodies, after the
 mariner of all those living creatures that are subjects to the astral
 spirit of this world. And if his station had been higher, and he
 had not been touched by time, he would entirely have been cut
 off, or quite excluded from this third principle, and could not
 have been an entire image of God, after his own likeness. But
 here may be objected and queried—Are not the holy angels entire ‘
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 41
 images of God, notwithstanding that they have nothing of this
 third principle in their created being ?—Ans. The holy angels are
 entire images of God, as manifested then when they were created,
 viz. before the creation of this third principle, when God was
 manifested only in the two eternal principles of fire and light;
 but Adam was to be an entire image of God, as manifested in
 the three principles after the fall of Lucifer, not in eternity only,
 but also in time, which entire image of God, after his own like
 ness, he could not have been, if the third principle had not been
 a third constituent part of his being. Upon this account it is that
 Jacob Behmen rightly said, men shall, after the end of time in
 eternity, even excel the angels, whom we know the Scripture calls
 ‘ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be
 heirs of salvation.’ The primitive state of integrity is commonly
 said, by the spirit of natural reason (human wisdom), to have
 been the state of Adam and Eve in Paradise; but, as this spirit
 is a fool in these matters, so he speaks both foolish and non
 sensical things thereof.
 “Can that be primitive which was not first, but had something
 antecedent to it, of which itself is but an appendix, or a neces
 '
 sary consequence? Can that be an integrum or a whole, which is
 divided into two, and so divided that these two can never more be
 made that whole or that one again, which they were before they
 were divided? These two here spoken of may indeed be joined
 and copulated together from without, and upon that account (yet
 in quite another sense wherein they were one before) they may
 be called one, as they are called in Scripture one flesh. But what
 is this state and condition to that wherein they were one in one
 only person? This primitive state of integrity was only then in
 being, when God (having made but one Adam) saw everything
 that he had made, and found it ver good. But when he said
 afterward, ‘It is not good that man s ould be alone,’ his state of
 integrity, alas! was faded away already, for he had already trans
 gressed his limits, he was departed from his eminent station, he
 was sunk down into time, he had opened a door for the astral
 spirit of this world to come in; he had hearkened to his sugges
 tions, he had stooped down with his will and affections to embrace
 the love of this third principle; and so he had already dealt
 treacherously against the wife of his youth, which had been his
 companion, and the wife of his covenant within himself, and had
 longed for a helpmate besides and without himself ; he was
 infected with a desire after the knowledge of good and evil, and
 had eaten already of the forbidden tree of that knowledge, not
 indeed outwardly with his mouth, yet magically with his lust and
 imagination; and so he had really begun and carried on that same
 transgression, which afterward was consummated by that same
 helpmeet that was made in this transgression of his; and, there
48
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 fore, first, it was now not good that he should be alone; the plain
 reason thereof could be given distinctly, but it is enough to say
 only, that he himself had made not good what GOD had made very
 good before. And therefore, secondly, like as afterward, the end
 of this transgression consummated was death, so the end of this
 foregoing preparation and disposition towards it was a 'deep
 sleep, justly to be called a forerunner of, or a brother-in-law to,
 that death; and therefore, also, thirdly, when the transgression
 was consummated by his helpmeet, he showed forth the inward
 signature of his own mind, which he had in the beginning thereof,
 by calling his wife the mother of all living, which certainly hath
 no manner of sense in it, except only with a close respect to this
 transitory world, wherein he had now settled himself according
 to his newly-framed own contrivance, and wherein, according to
 the Apostle's word, but contrary to his sense, he forgot the things
 behind him, and minded only that which was before him; for, if
 he had a sober serious remembrance of his primitive station, or a
 mournful sense of what he was departed from and was deprived
 of, he could not but call his wife the mother of all dead. But
 this denomination he could not reasonably have liked so well as
 that of the former, because, first, he was now for begetting chil
 dren, which all were to have of him that life he now himself
 lived in, viz. in the region of stars and elements, when his former
 true life, which he now was dead unto, could not be propagated
 by him into any one of them. He must needs, therefore, be more
 pleased with such a denomination as denoted a life in this world,
 after his own likeness, and obvious to his senses, than by such a
 one as implieth, only tacitly, a life lost, gone, and vanished away,
 so that he could have no more any true sensation thereof, and
 expresseth downright and directly the very contrary of every life.
 And because, also, third, he must needs have likened better to
 please his wife, whom he loved, and to flatter her, than to make
 such an affronting reflection upon her, as to lay all the blame upon
 her alone, extenuating, at same time, if not quite denying, at least
 implicitly, his own fault and guilt, seeing especially that he could
 not be ignorant of the next immediate consequence thereof, which
 needs must have been this, that his own conscience would have
 risen and shown in his own face, and told him that he himself
 had been the father of death before ever his wife had got a
 personal existence. For this is true,—by one man (says the
 apostle, not by one woman, but by one man, even Adam the first,
 not by Adam and Eve, for, though this be true in a second pos
 terior sense, yet it is not so in this chief original sense) sin
 entered into the world, and death by sin, which one man is always
 in the Scripture put in a diametrical opposition over against that
 other one man, Jesus Christ, for this very reason called the
 second Adam very frequently, but never the second Adam and
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 49
 Eve. And so, likewise, when God called to our first parents after
 the fall, he did not say in the plural number, ‘Where are ye, Adam
 and Eve?’ but he called in the singular only, ‘Where art thou,
 Adam? Hast thou eaten,’ &c. which plainly showeth, that God
 called to an account chiefly, and in the first place, him whom he
 knew to have been the first author and original agent in the
 transgression, before even the woman was taken out of him,
 which never could have had a personal being in this world, if he,
 by his own lust, imagination, and desire, had not himself spoiled,
 perverted, and caused to be not good, what God had made very
 good in the beginning.
 “In the primitive state of integrity, all the senses, thoughts,
 imaginations, and enjoyments of man, and all his magical opera
 tions in the spirit of his soul, could not but have been thoroughly
 pure, holy, and heavenly, because both the glass of his mind, and
 the eyeof his understanding, were so too; and therefore, as this
 tree was, so must its fruits and products have been also. Accord
 ingly, then, he could not have had any other sensations but such
 as could, and did, arise in the spirit of the soul, from a union
 with, and full obedience to, the spirit of God in his light and love,
 from an intuition and fruition of his infinite goodness, from a
 profound contemplation and deep understanding of the wonders
 and riches of his wisdom shown forth in the creation of this
 world, from an intimate acquaintance with the holy virgin Sophia
 (designated by Solomon, wisdom), from the mutual embraces
 of the two eternal tinctures of fire and light united in his own
 single person, from a familiar conversation with holy angels,
 from his own personal perfections, which he was endowed with
 as a sovereign prince ruling over all things in this whole third
 principle, &c. What those senses, sensations, and enjoyments
 were, in particular, no living soul can be found able to declare,
 because this primitive state is lost, and was never attained again,
 —neither can it be attainable by any during this mortal life; and
 Adam himself could not have declared it to his offspring, after
 his transgression and fall; for of that single primitive image of
 God, in which he was in the beginning, he himself knew nothing
 more after his ‘sleep.’
 “In the paradisaical or middle state thereof, all the former
 senses, or heavenly sensations, had left, and were departed from
 him, or rather he had left, and was departed from them, and had
 removed himself into a lower and more exterior station, wherein
 his senses were still indeed pure, holy, and paradisaical, yet no
 more so, as they had been before; for he, having now some other
 inferior objects before his mind, must needs also have had a
 lower and inferior understanding. Seeing that, instead of his
 former intimate acquaintance with the holy virgin within him
 self, and instead of the loving mutual embraces of the two tinc
so
 '
 THE OLD BOOK or MAGIC
 tures within his own single person, he was now wholly taken up,
 without himself, with such a visible helpmeet as he had longed
 for; which alone can show sufficiently an exceeding great dif
 ference between his senses in the primitive state, and his senses
 in this inferior state, wherein he was after he had awakened from
 his ‘deep sleep.’ But even these paradisaical senses also continued
 not very long with him; for, in the fallen state, when the trans
 gression was consummated, all those paradisaical senses and
 enjoyments were utterly extinct, and, instead of them, all the
 sensations of Adam and Eve were no other but terrors, dread
 horrors, fears, anguish, trembling, and despair; and, although
 the promise of the woman’s seed put a stop to the extremity of
 those terrible sensations, yet it did not restore them their lost
 paradisaical enjoyments, much less Adam's primitive heavenly
 senses; but it laid only in the inward ground of their souls a
 foundation of faith and hope, which they should keep up,
 strengthen, and corroborate in themselves, as a means to have
 this restoration performed in them successively, gradually, and
 always in the same proportion in which they should be found
 steady, faithful, and true to this new-laid foundation.”
CHAPTER V
 An Čpitome Of The Špirit (Glorio
 ExTRACTED FROM THE ANCIENT MANUSCRIPT OF DR. JoHN
 PoRDAGE, RECTOR OF BRADFIELD, BERKs, 1650
 *THIS blessed world is called the heavenly Jerusalem and
 kingdom of love; it is inhabited in common by saints and angels.
 A heaven of a burning, flaming, sweet, rapturous fire; a clear,
 thorough-shining, crystalline, joyful light. The angelical world
 appears encompassed by a circle of infinity; having a firmament
 * Those who choose to refer to the third volume of Jacob Behmen’s works, 4 vols.
 quarto, edited by William Law, A.M. (author of “The Serious Call,” and several
 occult works, the most perspicuous extant); will be highly delighted at the sight of
 engravings of the “three wonderful tables,” said to have been designed and drawn
 by Sir Peter Paul. Rubens; and those who will take the trouble, critically, to examine
 them, will not, I think, hesitate to pronounce them three of as masterly pieces as were
 ever delineated by that eminent artist, and associate of illustrious and royal personages.
 The following extracts are from one of many extraordinary mystical works (never
 printed in English, but translated from the author's English and Latin MSS. into
 German) of the pious and learned Dr. John Pordage, rector of Bradfield, Berks., who
 was the contemporary and very particular friend of the celebrated Bishop Saunderson,
 Dr. Edward Hooker, and Dr. Francis Lee: the last-mentioned of these, his bosom
 friends, was a man of stupendous learning, and was most intimate with Robert Earl of
 Qxford, when lord high treasurer, to whom several proposals were made by him for
 the lasting honor and advantage of these nations. Dr. Lee's works are almost innume:
 able, but, as he never could be prevailed on to affix his name to any one, they have
 been made public under the names of others, or have come into the world anonymously.
 The greatest part of Nelson’s “Feasts and Fasts" was found in his own hand, after his
 decease; he was the first that put Mr. Hoare and Mr. Nelson upon the founding of
 #schools, upon the same plan as that of Halle in Germany; and he was con
 tinually, promoting and encouraging all manner of charities, both public and private.
 Peter the Great, Czar of Muscovy, was exceedingly partial to him, for whom, by
 request, he wrote, in the year, 1696, “Proposals for the right, framing of his Govern
 ment.”-Vide Dissertations, Theological, Mathematical, and Physical, by Francis Lee,
 M.D., 2 vols. 8vo. 1752; also, Rev. R. Roach’s “Great Crisis,” 8vo. 1725. Dr. Lee,
 was a member of “The Philadelphian Society:”. I therefore recommend a perusal of
 “The Theosophical Transactions,” by that Society (1 vol. small 4to. 1697), as it con:
 tains the most erudite and profound disquisitions ever written, both scientific and
 philosophic, as well as theosophic,and divine magic. This singular work has been very
 rare for the last fifty years, and, as aI' of that, the copy belonging to the late
 Mr. Cosway was sold by a bookseller (Duke Street, Manchester Square), to a friend
 of mine,for ten guineas. This may serve to convince, if possible, the incredulous, that
 these sublime studies have not been, in any age, confined to men, of little or no con
 sideration in the world, but, on the contrary, it may be averred, that, scarcely any,
 comparatively, but persons of liberal education and of distinction, have been the most
 earnest in those pursuits. As it is not generally known that the father of English
 astronomers and mathematicians, Sir Isaac Newton, was indebted for his transcendant
 knowledge to Jacob Behmen (who was certainly the prince of occult philosophers, and
 astrologers), I beg to refer all who are disposed to "The Gentlemen's Magazine' for
 July, 1782, where they will see an article very explicit on this point, written by a
 fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. But, to conclude, Shakspeare, Milton, Dryden,
 the author of “Junius,” and numerous other great, and good men; of all ages and
 nations, have reverenced these sciences, and benefited themselves and others by direct
 ing their attention to them. It is, however, fruitless to urge more, since those who
 “have eyes to see, and ears to hear,” will both see and hear! whilst those who are
 blinded by vulgar prejudice (the offspring of ignorance), , or by epicureanism, or
 religious, bigotry (which is the worst degree of superstition), cannot possibly either
 “see or hear,” wherefore it is truly “vanity of vanities” to attempt to convince them.-DR. L. W. DE LAURENCE.
 51
52
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 in which the angelical elements operate in harmonious unison and
 equal temperament, which makes a clear, serene, and eternal day.
 The angelical world is the metropolis of eternity, the temple of
 God, and glorious palace of his most high and mighty majesty,
 wherein he appears without obscurity to his angels, clear, and
 plain in his holy Trinity, which they contemplate in the mirror
 of godly wisdom; and, through the love which is in them of God,
 they are united in humility and obedience to one spirit. The
 angelical world is but one heaven, inasmuch as Christ and his
 saints live together with the angels; but, with regard to its
 variety, there are three heavens, answerable externally to the
 Trinity, and internally according to three degrees of glory, the
 first, second, and third heaven.
 In the angelical world, there is an external transparent Para
 dise to the angelical senses, and an internal understanding or
 mental sight; and it is by its most spiritual nature that it is every
 where present to the temporal world we inhabit, by which the
 communications and knowledge of it are given to men; and, as
 the time is at hand when the second advent of our Lord will fully
 open the intercourse, men will be justified, sanctified, and glori
 fied, even in their earthly bodies, by having their conversation in
 heaven. And here appears the wisdom of God, that, although
 heaven is everywhere present on earth, it cannot appear but by
 his permission.
 |
 The nature of the angelical world is to draw the mind into it,
 so far as it is prepared, by denying itself, and mortifying its
 hellish or earthly passions. The saints in the lowest heaven may
 be compared to the stars, which are distinguished among them
 selves as to their size and splendor; those in the mid-heaven to
 the moon in its beauty, and those in the higher heaven, or most
 holy place, to the sun in its full glory. All these mansions are
 dwellings of purity. In the outward court or lowest heaven there
 is no selfishness in the saints or angels; all its inhabitants are in
 the life of love, peace, and righteousness. The saints in the
 second, or inward court, are in a more exalted glory: those in the
 most holy place are absorbed still deeper in the Deity, and conse
 quenty more gloriously sanctified.
 The heaven, or the angelical world, is surrounded by a holy
 and pure element, which is an agreeable, sweet, quiet, and
 heavenly air.
 The angels see, feel, taste, smell, and hear the heavenly sight,
 substances, odors, and delightful sounds, in their innumerable
 societies, in the empire of love in which they dwell; and there is
 no other beatitude than they may have outwardly in Paradise and
 inwardly in God; yet these are not divided, because the outward
 is transparent, and discovers the inward through it.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 53
 The angels, though spiritual, are not without form and matter,
 with respect to themselves; it is only with regard to the grossness
 of mortality, that they are accounted wholly spiritual, for they
 enjoy infinite and innumerable wonders and glories in food,
 entertainment, and pleasures, springing newly forth from eternity
 to eternity, in pomp and glory.
 The government of the three princes of heaven is executed
 by seven angels or servants to the Trinity. The prince, according
 to the second person of the Trinity, is our Saviour, and has the
 most glorious throne: all these are in the harmony of the one only
 wisdom; and the lowest place of his dominion is a majestic
 glorious dwelling—a stately palace, an excellent building, a gar
 den of delight, encompassed with the angelic principle, and
 enclosed in the cope of a pure and heavenly element. In the most
 outward court all is light and eternal day; the tree of life grows
 and'greens in it, and the river of life flows through, pure as
 crystal. I truly advise all lovers of the truth to come to this
 school, which the writer of this hath experienced and seen!
 There is nothing but blessedness flowing from the influences of
 the Holy Trinity, in balmy strength, purity, and joy. There is
 no care for meat, drink, or garments; all these things are ready
 at the desire of an angel, in a heavenly manner; and their variety
 and wonderful distinctions are of such excellent curiosity, that
 the angels and saints of the higher court descend to look at and
 admire them. These wonders are so innumerable and past
 description, that I can only endeavor to relate the following, as
 I have heard and beheld! The—
 '
 First. It is of the excellent variety of the lovely elements
 that the angels in the outward court are clothed, according to
 their will and pleasure, without work or trouble. The—
 Second. The glorious fruitfulness of this Paradise, wherein
 grow divers trees, plants, herbs, fruits, and flowers, according to
 their species, coming forth of themselves in rapid growth and
 increase from the well-watered heavenly earth; they are trans
 parent and crystalline, with divers colors, in goodly strength,
 power, and virtue. How pleasant, with a heartfelt boldness,
 strengthening look, and joy, are they to the spirit’s eye beholding
 them, and how agreeable to the taste! They are all mere essences
 and self-existing things that grow in this delicious garden, and,
 seeing they are of an eternal substance, like the bodies of angels,
 they serve both for joy and pleasure to the sight, as well as for
 food and nourishment. I speak of the fruits of the garden.
 Angelic bodies cannot live without a nourishment conformable
 to their nature, which must be spiritual, heavenly, and impreg
 nated with godly power. These fruits are such that the angels
 and saints who have reached the most holy place desire some
54
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 times to eat of them, seeing they are full of the virtue of the Son
 of God, who is also the virtue of the most holy place. The—
 Third. The great abundance of all necessary and agreeable
 things is remarkable in the angelic world: here is a continual day
 of superfluity springing up in a constant summer; eternal harvest
 or vintage ; nothing rots; a fruit broken off brings another in its
 place; the soil is a multiplying strength and virtue of the white
 pearly earth, and of the balmy strength which penetrates all this
 outcourt. The—
 Fourth Wonder is its beauty and joyfulness, consisting of
 manifold diversified colors, outbreathing odors, groves and walks
 in vistas, with the refraction of light sweetly mixed and tem
 pered here and there in an excellent glory and majesty. No less
 beautiful are the plants and flowers, their variety of colors giving
 joy and exciting admiration: the leaves of trees and herbs are
 encompassed with golden edgings, and the fruits are of a granite
 red; they mix the colors together miraculously, charming the eye,
 which can only behold these amazing beauties through the divine
 light, fire. All things in Paradise are so clear you can look
 through them, but all colors rise with their pure transparency and
 splendor, through the mixture of fire with the other heavenly
 elements of water, air, and earth. Here are mountains that
 exhale aromatic odors, and abundance of houses, cottages, tents,
 and tabernacles of transparent gold, with majestic shades of vine
 leaves and tree-covered walks, dining-rooms, pleasure-houses,
 hillocks, mounts, and rocks of precious stones, low pleasant val
 leys, flowing rivulets and fountains, that augment the beauty and
 make it sweet and agreeable. The—
 Fifth Wonder of the lowest heaven is its inexhaustible riches;
 here is gold, silver, and all kinds of pearls in abundance, distin
 guished by their extraordinary sparkling colors, for ornament,
 show, pleasure, joy, and merriment, above comparison with our
 gold, silver, and precious stories, which are infinitely inferior in
 appearance and virtue. All this belongs to divine wisdom for the
 use and pleasure of her children. The—
 _
 Sixth Wonders of this court, which spring up new, as if they
 never were known before, continually breaking out into manifold
 varieties, without end or measure. Here the eye feasts on the
 most glorious sights imaginable. Here the ears meet the most
 agreeable pleasures and the sweetest musical sounds, and the smell
 is regaled by the most enlivening virtues of perfumes, giving
 relish to the powers of taste and ecstacy to the sense of feeling;
 for, although, all the wonders of this place appear in a godly
 heavenly essence, and as thin, rare, and translucent, as the finest
 air, most subtle and crystalline; yet they can be enjoyed by the
 senses of angelic bodies, which are suitable and proportioned to
 such subtlety and rareness. All these objects represent them
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 55
 selves to the blessed inhabitants of Paradise without their labor
 or trouble. ' What would it be for a man to gain the whole world,
 and to lose this eternal place of joy and pleasure! The—
 Seventh Wonder is the union of the blessed through CHRIST
 with the DIVINE WISDOM, whereby the angels who never fell
 attain greater happiness since his incarnation and triumph in the
 redemption, whereby he has attained more than the first Adam
 lost. Of this no spirit can understand anything until it is purified
 to enjoy this union: it will then know the experience of Solomon
 in the Canticles. The—
 Eighth Wonder is the rest and stillness of all these wonders,
 since the inhabitants neither labor nor trouble themselves to lay
 up a store of anything. All they want of food, clothing, or
 amusements, come at a wish. All is meek and satisfactory, still,
 soft, and clear; yet with unbounded power, pungency, triumph,
 and pomp. Here is a continual summer, cooled by sweet zephyrs,
 causing the balm of the celestial earth to exhale agreeable scents.
 The—
 Ninth Wonder consists in the concretion of the heavenly
 earth, which hastens as it is moved by the will of the angels,
 under the influence of the more spiritual powers and virtues
 above it; for there is a continual descent of blessings from God,
 throughout the angelic deep or sky, falling upon the earth of
 Paradise, which is a transparent, white, glittering, saline sub
 stance, covered with all the productions of its fruitfulness, and
 their blessed influence from the sphere of unapproachable light
 passing through Paradise—reaching to this external temporal
 world, thereby tempering the harshness and wrath (or evil) of
 our mortal elements.
|
 £im:
 £
 *
 :
 £'.
 £> | NT-TTI
 CHAPTER VI
 A COMPLETE ILLUSTRATION OF THE CELESTIAL
 $cience @f £3trology
 Comprising the Art of Foreknowing Future Events, by the Posi
 • tions, Aspects, and Configurations of the Heavenly Bodies at
 the Time of Birth; with an Elucidation of the Rules used for
 calculating the Fate of Empires, States, and Kingdoms, as
 well as for resolving all Lawful Horary Questions, relative to
 the Secrets of Futurity.
 Canst thou the sky’s benevolence restrain,
 And cause the Pleiades to shine in vain?
 Or, when Orion sparkles from his sphere,
 Thaw the cold season, and unbind the year?
 Bid Mazzaroth his destined station know,
 And teach the bright Arcturus where to glowP
 THE most noble and celestial science of Astrology may be
 defined to be the art of foreknowing and predicting future events
 by the motions, positions, and influences of the heavenly bodies,
 and other celestial phenomena, deduced from rational and experi
 #mental observations, made by the most wise philosophers in all
 ages, and in most parts of the civilized world. And it is no small
 56
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
57
 honor to this celestial science, that the greatest poets and philos
 ophers of all ages have been amongst its firmest votaries.
 *Thus Chaucer, the father of English poetry, writes—
 For in the stars clearer than is the glass
 Is written, God wot, whoso could it read,
 The dethe; but that men's witts ben so dull
 In starrs many a winter there before
 Was writt the dethe of Hector, Achilles,
 Of Pompey, Julius, or they were bore;
 The strife of Thebis; and of Hercules,
 Of Samson, Turnus, and of Socrates,
 The dethe; but that men's witts ben so dull
 That no wight can well rede it at the full.
 MAN OF LAWE's TALE.
 Homer, Virgil, Shakspeare, Dryden, Milton, and Chatterton,
 and of late years many first-rate poets, have deemed it nothing
 irrelevant to set forth the excellence of Judicial Astrology. And
 the inspired writers declare, that the heavenly bodies were created
 “for signs, seasons, days, and years;” that “the stars in their
 courses fought against Sisera,” and, that “the heavens declare
 the glory of Nature, and the firmament showeth his handy work.”
 Heaven's golden alphabet—
 And he that runs may read.
 YoUNG.
 CERTAIN PRINCIPLES OF NATURE UPON WHICH
 THE SCIENCE OF ASTROLOGY IS FOUNDED
 I'll not believe that the arch architect
 With all these fires the heavenly arches decked
 Only for show; and with these glittering shields
 To amaze poor shepherds watching in the fields.
 I'll not believe that the least flower which pranks
 Our garden borders, or our common banks,
 And the least stone that in her warming lap
 Our mother Earth doth covetously wrap,
 Hath some peculiar virtue of its own,
 And that the stars of heaven have none!
 SIR ISAAC NEWTON, in his Principia, sec. xi., tells us, “The
 actions of bodies attracting, and of bodies attracted, are always
 mutual and equal, so that neither the attracting nor the attracted
 body can continue at rest:” and, farther on, he says, “I shall now
 go on to explain the motion of bodies that attract each other
 mutually, by considering their centripetal forces as attractions;
 though, perhaps, physically speaking, they may more truly be
 called impulses.” We merely enter this down as a principle suf
 ficiently established by the authority on which it rests, without
 ourselves contending either for or against its validity.
 The author of the article Astronomy in the “Edinburgh
 Encyclopaedia,” p. 688, says, “As all bodies which compose the
 solar system gravitate towards one another, and as the gravitation
 * The above verse of Ancient poetry is rare and curious.
58
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 of each body is the sum of the gravitation of all its particles, we
 may conclude that each particle of matter in the system gravitates
 towards every other partic1e.”—“Newton,” says he, “proceeded
 to inquire whether, upon the supposition that this was the case,
 the planets would act upon one another in the manner we really
 f
 ind they do. The result of his investigation showed, that the
 assumption he had made was perfectly consistent with the ob
 served phenomena, and that this was the only law which would
 produce them.”
 Now from Newton’s own words we find, in the first place,
 that there are some mutual actions existing among all bodies of
 matter, which he treats of under the term attractions; meaning,
 as he signifies, impulses; thus obviously leading us to understand,
 that every portion of nature sympathetically agitates or affects
 every other portion of nature ; and this is precisely that something
 which all rational astrologers ground the elements of their science
 upon.
 We are taught, in the second place, “That every particle of
 matter in the system gravitates towards every other particle,"’
 and that the law is, That all bodies of the solar system gravitate
 upon one another with an eflect in proportion to the quantity of
 particles of matter of which each body is itself composed, and
 according to the distance of the several varieties of bodies from
 one another.
 These two Newtonian principles are, in my opinion, ample
 data for the whole superstructure of rational astrology to rest
 upon. Newton and his disciples intended, no doubt, to argue
 from it merely concerning the action of inanimate upon inanimate
 matter. We choose to carry the question farther, and apply it in
 the general manner which the terms in which each principle is
 couched admit of. Astrologers all know by experience, that ani
 mate as well as inanimate matter is constantly affected by the
 operation of that mutual PULSATION of particles which Newton
 calls attraction or impulse; and which the other writer describes
 as particles gravitating towards particles throughout the system.
 Now nothing could surely be looked upon as more absurd than
 to urge that a compound of matter, so susceptible as we know
 the animal brain and vital essence to be, would be capable of
 resisting the action of influences to which, according to the New
 tonian principles, every particle of that dense stone called ada
 mant is obedient and tractable. Indeed, it is only because men
 are, for the most part, prone to pin down their minds from
 thinking, and to confine them to a mere external view of such
 subjects as astrology, a comparison is rendered necessary between
 intellectual and granite substances, to illustrate the connection
 which our principles declare to exist between all particles of
 matter, throughout the scope of nature.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 59
 It will be necessary for the reader to bear in mind, that,
 according as the sum of its particles is greater or less, so is the
 action of a body impressed with greater or less effect; its distance
 also from the body acted upon being taken into consideration.
 For instance: The Sun is the largest body in nature that we are
 exposed to; and its effect on our Earth, and all contained within
 it, is, therefore, very great: but the Moon, being so much nearer
 the Earth than the Sun, although the sum of its particles of
 matter is as nothing compared to the sum of particles in the body
 of ‘the Sun, yet its influence on the Earth, and all it contains, is
 considerably greater than that of the Sun.
 It requires but few words to explain, that if the Sun do, as
 the Newtonian principles allege, attract the vast and solid body
 of the Earth, it must have a very powerful effect indeed on the
 more subtle matter which constitutes the bodies of animals: and
 if men were disposed to trace effects to their causes, there is not
 a rational man in the world who would not, at once, perceive,
 from the sensations he is constantly experiencing, that mutual
 action which is going on between insensible and sensible matter.
 No author that I am acquainted with has yet attempted to
 refer the doctrines of Astrology to Newtonian principles. Indeed,
 since the discovery of that inherent force by which all bodies in
 nature are urged to bear or press towards their respective centres,
 it has become a fashion to cry down Astrology as a chimera:
 and, though many individuals have continued to follow it up upon
 the principles of the Ptolemaic system, yet none, I believe, have
 ever given themselves the trouble to reduce it into the Copernican,
 and to show how perfectly its laws are of a piece with that effort
 of nature ‘which is called gravitation, in bodies that revolve, and
 attraction, in the centre round which their motions are described.
 As the intention of this part of our work is to throw some new
 light on the rationale of this very interesting and sublime science,
 the intelligent reader will see the necessity of bearing invariably
 in mind the philosophical rudiment deduced from the experi
 mental process of Newton; namely, That every particle of matter
 in the universe is endued with a sympathetic energy or influence,
 by which it is capable of communicating imperceptibly with every
 other particle throughout the system of nature.
 The next thing required, in order to apply the principles here
 proposed to the doctrines of Astrology, is, to endeavor to acquire,
 by the best and most enlarged means of comparison that we can
 adopt, some notion of the innumerable, immense, and differently
 organized conglobations of particles which the suns and other
 mighty spheres of the universe severally contain. No mind, it is
 certain, can expand itself sufficiently to comprehend the mighti
 ness and multiplicity of the orbs of heaven, and the variety of
 their qualities and structures; indeed, a profound capacity is
60
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 necessary for contemplating, with anything like an adequate view,
 that small portion of the world which is called the Solar System,
 and of which the vast earth we live upon is but a comparatively
 small member.
 THE SOLAR SYSTEM
 THE PROPORTIONAL QUANTITIES OF MATTER COMBINED IN THE
 SEVERAL Booirs OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM.
 WE actually know the earth on which we live to be nearly
 twenty-five thousand miles in circumference, and that the mass
 of matter of which it is composed is about four hundred and fifty
 times as dense as water. The idea of the wonderful extent of
 this body may be rather better assisted by conceiving the length
 of time occupied in going from kingdom to kingdom, or in sailing
 round it. A farther conception may be also derived, from con
 sidering the great number of distinct nations on its surface, with
 many of which we are yet unacquainted; for there are yet many
 great regions that still remain unexplored. Having suffered the
 mind to enlarge itself, as far as it is able, by meditating on this
 mighty globe, with which we are most familiar, we‘become rather
 better able to draw inferences, on comparing the proportion of
 matter in the body of the earth, with the quantities contained in
 the various orbs with which our’s is associated. To bring this
 point in as narrow a shape for consideration as possible, we shall
 here merely compare the proportions of matter contained in each
 planet, with that which is condensed in the body of the Earth;
 and then we shall, by a similar scale, show the comparative masses
 of each planet with the solar mass. And first—
 The Earth contains about 6 times more matter than Mercury.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. rand1-1oth....................Venus.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..3I2timeslessthan................Jupiter.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I7..............................GeorgiumSidius.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘40timesmorethan................TheMoon.
 I would now recommend close attention to the wonderful
 aggregation of matter accumulated in the body of the Sun‘: and
 this will be somewhat the more readily conceived from the com
 parative bulk of the Earth and of the several planets having been
 just now examined.
 The Sun contains about 2,000,000 times more matter than Mercury.
 . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 400,000............................Venus.
 TheEarth.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4,000,000............................Mars.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 I,o7o............................Jupiter.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 Geor.Sidus.
 . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . ..i33,6oo,o0o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..TheM0on.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 3,400. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Saturn.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Fond mortals! why should we ourselves abuse?
 Nor use those powers which God permits to use?
 Basely detract from the celestial mind,
 And close our eyes, endeavouring to be blind?
 We see the skies, then why should we despair
 To know the fatal office of each star?
 To open nature, to unveil her face,
 Go in, and tread the order of the maze.
 Man, know thy powers, and not observe thy size:
 Thy noble power in piercing Reason lies,
 And Reason conquers all, and rules the skies.
 61
 After having suffered the mind to pause, for a time, over this
 view, our next object will be to fix, as deeply as we can, the
 necessary impression which a return to the Newtonian principles
 is calculated to make, concerning the influence of these incon
 ceivably vast masses upon one another. In this part of our
 investigation, it is necessary to understand something of the
 revolutions and rotations which each orb is subject to, and by
 which they are constantly varying their positions relative to each
 other.. Hence, they are occasionally brought to act with varied
 effects; and, from their perpetual change of place, being some
 times nearer together, and sometimes farther asunder, than at
 others, there is a continual variation of force exerted on every
 distinct portion of the system; and the more susceptible particles,
 connected any how with every planetary mass, are thus com
 pelled to change their place every successive instant, in conse
 quence of the attractive or pulsive force which every sphere is
 exerting.
 As all treatises of Astrology that have obtained any degree of
 reputation are founded upon the quadripartile of Ptolemy, and as
 the system of our fraternity of Planets, as regards their centre
 and their order, is so different, as laid down by that philosopher,
 to the system now prevailing, it will be proper, before we proceed
 to the effects of the several aspects, to give the order of the
 planets according to Ptolemy, and also according to Copernicus,
 or Newton.
 PToLEMY’s SYSTEM.
 Centre, The Earth.
 1—The Moon.
 2—Mercury.
 3—Venus.
 4--The Sun.
 5—Mars.
 6—1upiter.
 7—Saturn.
 PRESENT SYSTEM.
 Centre, The Sun.
 1—Mercury.
 2—Venus.
 3—Earth and Moon.
 4—Mars.
 5, 6, 7, 8—Vesta, Juno, Ceres, Pallas.
 9—Jupiter.
 I0—-Saturn.
 II—G‘eorgium Sidus.
62
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 To strike into all the minute and abstruse ramifications which
 concern this curious part of philosophy, would be very tedious to
 both the writer and the reader, and would therefore be incon
 sistent with our design. Having, in the preceding pages, supplied
 such calculations as are sufficient to assist the mind in estimating
 the power of one planet on any other, by showing the proportion
 of matter which each brings into action, the judgment of those for
 whose consideration this subject is chiefly adapted will be able
 to supply those arguments, relative to difference of effect which
 is produced by the difference of distances between the several
 orbs, and also of that peculiar change in place between apogee
 and perigee, by which peculiar fluctuations of effect on the atmos
 phere, and consequently on all animal nature subsisting within it,
 is occasioned.
 That which has been said, hitherto, on the theory of astrology,
 extends no farther than the elementary principles of the science:
 and we next come to propound arguments, established on the
 principles already laid down, relative to the continual and fluctu
 ating action of matter upon matter,-of celestial upon terrestrial
 bodies—of the stars upon man.
 No fact in philosophy is more indisputable than that which
 assures us of the influence of the sun, moon, planets, and stars, on
 the earth and its inhabitants. The continual and periodical change
 in the weather—the constant and the variable winds to which
 particular climates are subject—the phenomena peculiar to the
 several seasons, and many other effects that might, were it neces
 sary, be pointed out, are proofs which render the existence of
 such planetary influence unquestionable. There is, however, one
 means more visible than either of those before mentioned, by
 which the effects of planetary influence may be exemplified, and
 pretty well estimated; and that is, the alternate ebbing and flow
 ing of the sea. The phenomena exhibited in this department of
 nature is so analogous to those operations on which astrological
 doctrines rest, that it cannot be too closely examined into: and
 the more scrupulously it is brought into comparison with atmos
 pheric fluctuations, the more will these be understood, and the
 science of astrology be venerated. To the arguments and means
 of exemplification of astral influence, which the flux and reflux
 of the ocean furnish, shall this part of my subject be confined.
CHAPTER VII
 LUNAR ASTROLOGY AND OCEAN TIDES
 BY the term tide, as here used, we are to understand the
 periodical approach of the waters of the ocean to, and their
 alternate recessions from, the shores of every country of the
 earth. The tides of the ocean have a very immediate connection
 with lunar astronomy; for, where their course is unimpeded, it is
 commonly high water when the moon is about on the south-south
 west point of the compass of the horizon of any place: conse
 quently, the greatest elevation of the waters will be about twenty,
 or from that to twenty-five, degrees eastward of the moon. All
 the operations of the tides are confined between determinate
 limits, which are called high and low water. The interval be
 tween high water at one time, and the high water following, is
 half the time of the moon’s apparent circuit round the_earth,
 which is 12 hours 25 minutes; so that, in 24 hours 50 minutes,
 the tide ebbs and flows twice upon every coast.
 Thus far we have considered the phenomena of the tides as
 resulting from lunar influence alone; but there is a force in the
 sun as well as in the moon, which is constantly operating to dis
 turb the ocean, and which produces special effects, according as
 it is combined with, or counter to, the lunar influence. General
 experience has shown that the lunar is to the solar force about
 as 5 to 2. It is also found that the sun, in quadrature with the
 moon, causes a depression or diminution of lunar efiect, of 30%
 inches in the height of a tide, it being at these times that the two
 luminaries are acting at right angles to one another, as they do in
 all quartile aspects. The lunar effect of itself causes a rise of
 about six feet; consequently, the mean spring-tide, where there
 are no obstructions, should be 30% + 72 = 102% inches, and
 the mean neap-tide 72-— 30% = 41% inches; and this is found
 to correspond with observation in a general way, and setting
 localities out of the question.
 But the distance of each luminary from the earth being
 variable, occasions difierent intensities of force to be constantly
 employed, so that neither these nor any other proportions are to
 be esteemed constant. They are, however, quite sufficient for the
 present purpose, which is that of giving general ideas of the
 nature of the solar and lunar influences, as they happen to be in
 conjunction or quadrature, and exerted in these positions upon
 terrestrial matter.
 63
64
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Considerable difference in the magnitude of a tide is caused by
 the moon’s distance, so that the ratio of the disturbing force in
 the moon to that in the sun is sometimes 6 to 2, and at others not
 more than 4 to 2: thus, in the former instance, instead of the
 mean spring—tide being 8% feet, it would be 10 feet; and in the
 latter case only 7%. But as well as that of the sun and moon,
 every planet has a gravitating power on the waters of the ocean;
 and the combined influence of the ten primary planets, were it all
 brought into action at one time, would be, to that of the sun and
 moon conjointly, about as I to I00 ; so that, in a mean spring-tide
 of 102 inches, the united influence of the planets would raise it
 about one inch.
 When the moon is in perigee at the time of spring-tide, such
 tide may be expected to rise at least 2% feet higher than a mean
 spring-tide; and, on the other hand, a difference of 2% feet
 deficiency will be generally experienced in spring-tides, which
 happen at the time of the moon’s apogee.
 If the moon has a northern declination, and the latitude of the
 place is also northern, the tide which happens when the moon is
 above the horizon is greater than that which happens on the same
 day when she is below it: and, when the latitude of the place is
 contrary to the declination of the moon, the effect is reversed.
 FACTS CONCERNING THE TIDES AND ASTROLOGY
 HAVING thus presented some of the most obvious facts relative
 to the action of the sun, moon, and planets severally, upon the
 waters of the ocean, it cannot fail to be observed, that all the
 inequalities of motion—of distance—of declination—of phases—
 and of mutual aspects, agreeing, as they do, with observation as
 to their various proportional effects, afford a mass of evidence
 which places the theory of sidereal influence upon terrestrial mat
 ter upon a foundation which nothing can destroy, or even shake.
 Indeed, no one acquainted with the peculiar and nicely corre
 sponding ratio between cause and effect relative to the tides, and
 having, at the same time, skill in mathematics, and acquaintance
 with the mechanism of nature, sufficient to discover these sympa
 thetic relations, and to generalize them to questions in astrology,
 will, for a moment, hesitate to own, that every star has an
 influence which is not to be restrained by human power—that this
 influence is constantly producing some mutation in the earth—
 and, like the ebbing and flowing of the sea, is impetuously run
 ning, without intermission, round all the regions of the world.
 Pythagoras maintained that the world is actuated by a divine
 soul; and, when we come to examine that miraculous sympathy in
 nature so admirably manifested between the heavenly bodies, and
 the amazing body of water, surrounding our earth, which is
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 65
 incessantly agitated by sympathetic influence, we are involuntarily
 brought to think of the doctrine of this eminent sage. In looking
 deeply into the sympathies which we are constantly experiencing,
 we can hardly quarrel with those who have ascribed them to an
 agency more than we can comprehend. We see a gift of fore
 knowledge strongly implanted in the badger, the hedgehog, the
 hare, and almost every animal with which we are acquainted.
 We see, also, that birds and reptiles have a surprising forecast:
 and who can fail toperceive effects constantly working between
 the heavenly bodies, and the bodies and souls of mankind?
 Whether there exists an ethereal effluvium that is communicated
 from one body of matter to another, and which produces those
 strange sympathies we are witnessing, is not necessary to be
 declared; we know they are produced, and being able to connect
 them with what we term planetary influence is suffcient to show
 we have sound groundwork for forecasting the effects incident to
 known causes.
 PLANETARY INFLUENCI.5
 EXERTED UPoN ANIMATE AND INANIMATE. MATTER
 THOSE who have taken the trouble to weigh with attention
 what has been already advanced concerning the proportion of
 force with which the sun, moon, and planets, severally act upon
 the waters of the ocean, will have, no doubt, come to this infer
 ence: namely, If those bodies do thus compel so gross a mass of
 matter as the ocean to periodically toss and roll in a manner con
 trary to its own nature, which is INERT REPOSE, so must their
 respective influences operate to disturb and alter the state of
 every sort of matter whatsoever, sensible and insensible, that is
 connected with the earth; and minds which have arrived at this
 conclusion may be said to have made the first step in rational
 astrology.
 Hitherto the pulsive quality, or gravitating or attracting
 capacity, of inanimate bodies upon one another has only been
 examined: and, in order to understand something of the sym
 pathy that subsists between the inanimate and animate, another
 course of reasoning than that already adopted will be necessary
 to be resorted to. From the great depth at which many philo
 sophical truths lie, and the difficulty of getting at them, the
 ancients had a saying, VERITAS IN PUTEO, Truth lies in a well:
 and it is only by a proper chain of reasoning that it can be drawn
 out of the depth and darkness in. which it dwells; and more
 particularly in the case of natural and judicial astrology.
 The whole surface of the human body, when moderately
 corpulent, is about fourteen feet square: and the pressure which
 occasions the rise and fall of the mercury in the thermometer
66
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 shows, by its variation, that at one time, when the air is most
 heavy, such a body sustains a pressure externally of 33,905 lbs.;
 while, when the atmosphere is lighter, the pressure on the same
 body is not more than 30,624 lbs.: and, consequently, an increase
 or decrease of weight equal to 328 lbs. may be externally acting
 on the body of a person, and which change he may suffer every
 few hours, as the fluctuations of the barometer sufficiently prove.
 Now we well know that this vast outside pressure could not be
 sustained, unless it were properly counterbalanced by some ade
 quate means of resistance within the said body: and internal
 means of accommodating itself to these fluctuations of the atmos
 phere are supplied by the Author of Nature to every animal
 body. Yet that equilibrium which is necessary to ease is con
 stantly being disturbed; and agitations which may be compared
 to the ebbing and flowing of the tides of the ocean are constantly
 being experienced by every living animal: and this perpetual
 tossing and rolling of the tide of life is referrible to the self-same
 cause as that which occasions the fluctuations of the ocean,—
 namely, planetary influence.
 In a body that is robust, and has all its members perfect,
 pulsation, or the natural vibration of its organs, will soon effect
 composure, as sudden changes in the atmosphere are taking
 place: but, where any member or organ is out of order, the free
 and rapid circulation of the internal matter is obstructed, and
 pain or unpleasant sensations are the consequence: nor will these
 cease, until a perfect equilibrium between the internal resistance
 and external force has been restored.
 Now the human body cannot be materially affected without
 ‘
 the mind partaking, at the same time, of those effects which
 cause the corporeal sensations, whether they happen to be agree
 able or painful. The vicissitude to which beings like ourselves
 are constantly exposed by atmospheric changes has been ex
 pressed by a learned poet:
 “Temperie cceli, corpusque, animusque mutatur.”
 By temperature of air, we find,
 Changed is the body and the mind.
 Thus it is fairly demonstrated, that the combined or contrary
 influences of the planets are constantly operating to produce cer
 tain eflects on the body and mind of every living being on the face
 of the earth, in a manner comparatively similar to the phenomena
 of the tides of the ocean; and that the lives and actions of men,
 and the ‘fate of individuals and nations, are thus subject, in a
 great measure, to planetary control.
CHAPTER VIII
 THE PRACTICE OF ASTROLOGY
 THE champions and promoters of Astrology have, in every
 age, been men of the most extensive philosophical inquiry, and
 of the deepest erudition: it has also had antagonists of no small
 fame and reputation, but they happen to have been either persons
 who did not understand it, or bigots to some tenets which it may
 have seemed to oppose. Now, it opposes no tenets that are vir
 tuous; and it is weakness of mind to fancy, that faith in rational
 science is at variance with faith in divine revelation.
 After reading the course of arguments which has been already
 followed on the theory of Astrology, no man that is perfectly sane
 will venture to deny, but that the heavenly bodies operate upon
 this inferior world, and all things material and immaterial which
 it contains, by their influential qualities and natural virtues; since
 nature and experience combine to testify, as before proved,—that
 the change of air alters our bodies and minds—that the humors
 of men are all moved by celestial influences—and that, according
 to the changes of mutual position in the stars, every being on
 earth is sensible of consequent fluctuations of the essentials of
 existence. I
 He that would become proficient in this eminent, delightfully
 sublime, and almost boundless province of Natural Philosophy,
 must not expect to accomplish his desires without much laborious
 study, and intense application of his rational faculties. He must
 have the map of the whole universe depicted in his mind, and
 watch nature with a scrupulous eye in all her secret operations.
 It is not sufficient for him merely to be able to run over the
 names of the twelve signs of the zodiac: he must examine
 minutely the signs themselves, and weigh their constituent mem
 bers, and their proportions of matter—their relative positions,
 and proximity to, or remoteness from, all other powerful constel
 lations without the Zodiac. He must not suppose that a knowl
 edge of the several degrees that constitute sextiles, trines, quar
 tiles, and oppositions, makes up much towards a proficiency in ‘
 Astrology: and yet it is, nevertheless, necessary for him to posi
 tively understand these, as a part of the rudiments. Nothing in
 our fundamental progress is certainly more requisite than for the
 student to make himself perfect in the qualities of the signs and
 planets and the several significations of the twelve houses of a
 67
68
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 f
 igure: he should be also expert in setting a scheme, and in
 varying the significations of the houses according to the subject
 matter which he may, at any time, have under contemplation.
 In seeking to obtain, in as perfect a manner as possible, the
 preparatory steps, he will have the greater difficulties to sur
 mount in consequence of the discrepancies and conflicting opin
 ions which he will find in the authors he consults; who have, for
 the most part, advanced many idle conceits of their own, and
 from which none but a judicious mind will know how to select
 and form his system. There is not to be found, from Ptolemy
 downwards, any one regularly written treatise which, of itself,
 can be taken as a standard, and will admit of being followed;
 and yet all contain something worthy to be received. The only
 way, therefore, is to examine as many of the best masters as can
 be readily laid hold of, and, by philosophically investigating their
 principles, a person conversant in physiological study will be able
 to deduce a theory free from obsolete tenets and fantastic notions.
 Among the works on this subject, it is necessary, as original
 writers and our first leaders, to consult the De Judiciis Astrolo
 gicis, of Ptolemy—the Astronomicon of Manilius—Baptista
 Porta’s Speculum Astrologite—with the subsequent works of
 Placidus, Morinus, Regiomontanus, Campanus, Alcabitius, &c.
 —and these as they have been severally understood and copied
 by Lily, Wharton, Bishop Coley, Partridge, Gadbury, Parker,
 &c. who, most of them, have furnished us with collections and
 cullings enough, but without any well-digested system. Amongst
 the moderns, we may mention the works of Heydon, Ball,
 Thrasher, Poole, Mensforth, Sibly, and White; neither of which
 can be recommended as a standard, although there are select parts
 to be culled from each. To these may be added Wilson, who is
 the last of the Astrological authors, and whose dictionary is
 undoubtedly a useful book of reference, though filled with many
 curious opinions. Since the publication of his work, no other
 treatise has appeared at all connected with the science, and the
 same dearth of astrological information, so much complained of,
 still exists, which, however, in the present concise treatise it shall
 be our business to obviate as far as our limits will admit, and
 which we hope will be found really acceptable to the student in
 this celestial science.
 Having premised thus far, we will now take a view of the
 symbolical characters and first principles of the astrological
 science ; and first—
 ‘
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE TWELVE SIGNS AND THEIR DIVISIONS
 69
 THE Zodiac is a great circle of the sphere, and is divided into
 360 degrees; every degree is subdivided into 60 other divisions,
 called minutes, and every minute into 60 seconds; every sign
 contains 30 of those degrees, and so the 12 signs fill the whole
 Zodiac; for 12 times 30 is 360, &c. They are thus character
 ized :
 <>
 on
 2. & W.P Moveable
 8 & m + Fixed Signs.
 II
 my
 4 × Common
 Again,
 Q my a m + Signsofrightascension,
 w? : X \o 8 II Signsofobliqueascension,
 II
 X and the beginning of t are double-bodiedsigns,
 <2
 m 3é Fruitful Signs.
 II
 on
 Q my Barren Signs.
 8 Q. t w Quadrupedian, orfour-footed Signs.
 These signs are termed fixed, common, and moveable, because,
 whenever the sun is in any one of them, it answers to the season
 of the year; the weather being then either moveable or fixed, or
 between both —
 * II st a t = Fieryandairy masculine Signs,
 8 ga my mi vi 2: Earthlyandwateryfeminine Signs.
 *
 The Zobiat
 OR the path of the planets through the heavens, which forms
 an imaginary belt, or circle, about eighteen degrees in breadth,
 and is divided into the twelve signs:—Aries, the Ram; Taurus,
 the Bull; Gemini, the Twins; Cancer, the Crab; Leo, the Lion;
 Virgo, the Virgin; Libra, the Balance; Scorpio, the Scorpion;
 Sagittarius, the Archer; Capricornus, the Goat; Aquarius, the
 Water-bearer; Pisces, the Fishes; and they are noted on globes,
 &c. in the following manner:—
 Aries.
 ‘p
 Taurus.
 8
 Gemini.
 II
 Cancer.
 Co
 Leo.
 Virgo.
 SU
 Libra. Scorpio. Sagittarius. Capricornus. Aquarius. Pisces.
 1mp
 =
 .
 Tl
 4.
 W}
 ...'
 9é
 The former six are called northern, and the latter southern
 signs, because the former possess that half of the ecliptic which
70
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 lies to the northward of the equinoctial; and the latter, that which
 lies to the southward.
 The northern are our summer signs; the southern, our winter
 ones.
 These twelve signs answer to the twelve months ofthe year;
 and it is probable that their astrological efficacy or significations
 were discovered to the natives of the oriental regions by the
 following observations :—
 The first sign, Aries, denotes, that about the time when the
 sun enters into that part of the ecliptic, the lambs begin to follow
 the sheep. On the sun’s approach to the second constellation,
 Taurus, the bull, the cows are about to bring forth their young.
 The third sign, Gemini, was originally two kids, and signified the
 time of the goats’ bringing forth, as these animals generally
 produce two at a birth, while the former, the sheep and the cow,
 commonly produce only one.
 The fourth sign, Cancer, the crab, an animal that goes side
 ways and backwards, was placed at the northern solstice, the
 point where the sun begins to return back again from the north
 to the southward.
 The fifth sign, Leo, the lion, as being a very furious animal,
 was thought to denote the heat and fury of the burning sun, when
 he has left Cancer, and entered the sign Leo.
 Tlie succeeding constellation, the sixth in order, received the
 sun at the time of ripening corn, and approaching harvest; which
 was aptly expressed by one of the female reapers, with an ear of
 corn in her hand, viz. Virgo, the maid, or virgin.
 The ancients gave to the next sign, Scorpio, two of the twelve
 divisions of the Zodiac. Autumn, which affords fruits in great
 abundance, affords the means and causes of diseases, and the
 succeeding time is the most unhealthy of the year, expressed by.
 this venomous animal, here spreading out his long claws into one
 sign, as threatening mischief, and in the other brandishing his
 tail, to denote the completion of it.
 The fall of the leaf was the season of the ancient hunting; for
 which reason, the stars which marked the sun’s place at this
 season, into the constellation Sagittary, a huntsman with his
 arrows and his club, the weapons of destruction for the large
 creatures he pursued. The reason of the wild goat’s being chosen
 to mark the southern solstice, Capricorn, when the sun has
 attained his extreme limit that way, and begins to return and
 mount again to the northward, is obvious enough; the character
 of that animal being, that it is mostly climbing and ascending
 some mountain as it browses.—There yet remain two signs of
 the Zodiac to be considered, with regard to their origin, viz.
 Aquarius and Pisces. As to the former, it is to be considered that
 the winter is a wet and uncomfortable season; ‘this, therefore, was
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 71
 expressed by Aquarius, the figure of a man pouring out water
 from an urn.
 The last of the zodiacal constellations was Pisces, a couple of
 f
 ishes tied together, that had been caught; the lesson was, the
 severe season is over, your flocks do not yet yield their store, but
 the seas and rivers are open, and there you may take fish in
 abundance.
 PLANETARY ASPECTS
 THEsE are certain positions, in which the planets act upon and
 affect each other. They are of two kinds, zodiacal and mundane:
 zodiacal aspects are those measured by the degrees of the ecliptic;
 mundane are calculated by the semiarcs of the planets. By semi
 arc is meant half the time which elapses from a star’s rising to its
 setting, and vice versa. For example—if the day be sixteen hours
 long, the semidiurnal arc will be eight hours; that is, the sun is
 eight hours from the time of his rising at four o’clock, to the
 time of his coming to the meridian at twelve: now it is evident,
 if he be sixteen hours above the earth, he can be but eight beneath
 it; consequently, his seminocturnal arc will be four hours, and the
 semidiurnal or nocturnal arc or of any planet is the same as that
 of the sun in the same point.
 We shall now proceed to treat of the effects of the different
 aspects :—
 ‘
 6, a conjunction, is when two planets are both in the same
 degree and minute of a sign. The effects of conjunctions are
 either good or bad, according as the planets are friends or
 enemies to each other, or to the subject then under consideration.
 SEMISEXTILE
 The semisextile, or twelfth part of a circle, is a distance of
 thirty degrees in the zodiac, and is supposed to be slightly
 beneficial.
 SEMIQUADRATE
 The semiquadrate, or semiquartile, the eighth part of a circle,
 is a distance of forty-five degrees in the ecliptic. This aspect,
 though not allowed by Placidus, there is every reason to sup
 pose, is very evil, and has been thought by some good judges to
 equal, if not exceed, the square in malevolence.
 *, a sextile aspect, implies two of the heavenly bodies posited
 at the distance of sixty degrees, or one-sixth part of the Zodiac,
 from each other. The sextile is termed an aspect of imperfect
 love or friendship; because, when two planets or significators are
 in sextile to each other, they import that any matter in dispute,
 treaty of marriage, or any other subject of inquiry, may be hap
 pily terminated, or brought about by the means of friends; or
72
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 that, for want thereof, the contrary may happen: it is generally
 considered an omen of the favorable kind.
 By a 11 quartile aspect, two planets are understood to be
 posited at ninety degrees, or one-fourth part of the circle of the
 zodiac, from each other. The quartile is considered an aspect of
 imperfect hatred, and acts vice versa with the sextile, inclining
 rather to contention and misfortune, as the other does to friend
 ship, harmony, and good fortune.
 A, a trine aspect, imports the planets to be situated at the
 distance of one hundred and twenty degrees, or one-third part of
 the circle of the zodiac, from each other. This is.an aspect of the
 most perfect unanimity, friendship, and peace; and it is so con
 sidered, because, when the planets are in a A aspect, they are
 posited in signs precisely of the same triplicity and nature: that
 is to say, they are both in an earthy, airy, fiery, or watery sign;
 and, consequently, both contribute their mutual influences.
 QUINTILE
 The quintile, or fifth part of a circle, comprehends seventy
 two degrees in the ecliptic. Placidus admits this as one of the
 good aspects, but there is little reason to suppose it has much
 °ffi°a°y'
 SESQUIQUADRATE
 The sesquiquadrate is the opposite point of the semiquartile,
 and, like that, is a discordant aspect; experience shows the effects
 of both to be very powerful, and their influence may be particu
 larly observed on the weather, for changes more frequently take
 place at the time of the moon’s sesquiquadrates and semiquartiles
 with the sun, than even her squares and oppositions. It contains
 one hundred and thirty-five degrees in the Zodiac.
 BIQUINTILE
 The biquintile, or double quintile, is one hundred and forty
 four degrees of the ecliptic; it, like the quintile, is supposed to be
 good, and as such is admitted by Placidus, but experience does
 not seem altogether to confirm this opinion.
 8 , the opposition of two planets, signifies their being posited
 at one hundred and eighty degrees, or just half the distance of
 the zodiac, apart, which places them diametrically opposite to
 each other in the heavens. This is considered an aspect of perfect
 hatred, or of inveterate malice and enmity, as malignant in its
 effect as the trine is benevolent, and of double the destructive
 tendency; of the 11 aspect, therefore, an 8 is justly termed an
 aspect of perfect enmity.
 These aspects are_ all divided into partile and platic aspects.
 A partile aspect considers two planets, exactly so many degrees
 from each other as make a perfect aspect; that is, if Venus be in
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 73
 12 degrees of Cancer, and Jupiter in 12 degrees of Virgo, they are
 in partile sextile aspect. All perfect aspects are partile, and imply
 the matter or thing threatened, whether good or evil, to be near
 at hand.
 By a platic aspect we are to understand two planets so posited
 as to admit half the degrees of each of their own rays or orbs;
 or, if their distance from each other brings them within one-half
 of each of their orbs or radiations, when added together, they will
 then form a platic aspect.
 It must be observed in these aspects, whether the co-operation
 of the two planets is going off or coming on, for this will, in
 proportion, affect the subject, whatever it may be.
 A planet is essentially strong, or operates with the greatest
 force, when posited in his own house, exaltation, or triplicity, is
 according to the following table :—
 A TABLE OF THE ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES OF
 THE PLANETS, ACCORDING TO THE
 SYSTEM OF PTOLEMY
 IQ
 ‘Q
 '3 cu ..
 ‘I’
 U
 E
 c
 .9.”
 'u-0
 :5
 .9
 '5
 Q)
 U
 Q)
 H
 .5 on
 .E
 U
 ..o
 I1
 '2
 ‘0
 Q1
 3
 .2
 '5
 U
 .1
 Q)
 ::
 2
 9‘0
 5
 debilities.
 peregrine,
 being
74
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE USE OF THE FORMER TABLE
 Every planet hath two signs for his houses, except Q and (,
 who have but one each. 2 hath V5 and : ; 24, 4 and 9é; 3,
 ‘p m.; Q, Su; (, co; 9, 8 =; and #, II m). One of these
 houses is called diurnal, noted in the second column by the letter
 D; the other nocturnal, noted by the letter N. In these signs the
 planets have their exaltations, which the third column points out,
 as the Q in 19 P, & 3 8, Su in II 3 degrees, &c. are exalted.
 These twelve signs are divided into four triplicities. The
 fourth column tells you which planet or planets, both night and
 day, govern each triplicity; as, over against P, Su, t , you find
 G), 24, viz. Q governeth by day in that triplicity, and 24 by night.
 Over against 8, mP, V3, you find 9 and (; viz. 9 hath dominion
 by day, and ( by night in that triplicity. Over against II, =,
 :, you find b, #, which rule as aforesaid. Over against co,
 Tl, 9é, you find 3, who according to Ptolemy, ruleth that trip
 licity both day and night. In the column over against ‘f you
 find 9 detriment, viz. 9 being in P, is in a sign opposite to =,
 her own house, and so is said to be in her detriment. In the fifth
 column, over against P, you find 9 detriment, viz. 2, being in
 ‘’, is in a sign opposite to =, her own house, and so is said to be
 in her own detriment. In the sixth column, over against ‘p, you
 find b, over his head-fall; that is, when b is in ‘p, he is oppo
 site to =, his exaltation, and so is unfortunate, &c. Thus are you
 to consider of the whole twelve signs.
 A panet, dignified as above, is said to be in his essential dig
 nities: accidental dignities are, when planets are casually in an
 angle or succeedent house, direct, free from combustion.
 A planet in his house or exaltation, being significator of any
 person, denotes him to be in a happy and prosperous condition:
 not wanting for the goods of this life, and comparatively, as a
 man in his own castle, secure from danger. But a planet debili
 tated, as being in detriment, or fall, and afflicted, denotes the
 person to be in a very low and mean condition, much dejected,
 and disconsolate, &c.*
TABLE OF THE ORBS OF THE PLANETS
 Deg.
 Saturn ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IO
 Jupiter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I2
 Mars ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 7
 Moon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I2
 Wenus ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Mercury ... . . . . . . . . . . . .
 8
 7
 Sun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
 Min.
 O
 O
 3O
 3O
 O
 O
 O
 "Many persons at the present day hold that the essential dignities of the planets
 have no efficacy in nativities. This, however, the student will soon judge the truth of
 from experience. In questions, they have, undoubtedly, great force and power. The
 terms and phases of the planets are no longer considered # Astrologers.
2, #leteorologital (Lable
 Lights of the world! ye rolling orbs on high?
 That lead the various seasons through the sky.
 From
 Saturn and
 Jupiter
 Expect in Spring. Expect in Sum
 *7ter.
 Expect in Au
 tumn.
 Expect in Winter.
 Wind and rain. Rain and thunder. Wind and rain. Turbulent air.
 Saturn and
 Mars
 Saturn and
 the Sun
 Saturn and
 the Moon
 Saturn and
 Mercury
 Saturn and
 Venus
 Jupiter and
 cars
 Jupiter and
 the Sun
 Jupiter and
 Rain and thunder. Thunder and hail. Rain and storms. |Mitigation of cold.
 Hail, rain, thun
 Cold rains.
 Clouds and moist
 air.
 der.
 Cooling rains.
 Cold rains.
 Snow and rain.
 Cloudy weather. Clouds and snow.
 Wind and rain. Windy weather. Winds and clouds. Winds and snow.
 Cold rains.
 Sudden rains.
 Cold rains.
 Turbulent weather. Heat and thunder. Winds, but warm.
 Thunder and
 Windy weather.
 lightning.
 Snow or rain.
 Temperate
 weather.
 Windy, yet warm. Mitigation of cold.
 Genial showers,
 the Moon and gentle gales.
 Favorable and Calm & temperate Mitigation of the
 serene air.
 with white clouds.
 J:| His wind, wind'" ":"
 J.'" Growing weather. Peli' and |Clear : serene
 Mars and
 the Sun
 Dry and windy
 weather.
 Thunder and
 lightning.
 Dry and windy
 weather.
 #Showers and hail. Thunder storms. | Intemperate air.
 *#.# Rain and wind. Thunder and hail. Hail and winds.
 M;£d Abundant rains.
 Small rains.
 Th;.# and Moist weather. Thunder showers.
 The Moon
 Mitigation of
 Rainy weather.
 Small rain.
 season.
 Rain and winds.
 Unusual warmth.
 Mitigation of cold.
 Variable.
 Snow or rain.
 Rain or snow.
 Mists or rain.
 Cloudy and dark. Winds and sleet.
 and Venus
 Mercury and
 Venus
 Cloudy and moist.
 Sweet pleasant
 showers.
 Variable weather,
 heat.
 Rainy or cloudy.
 according to the Variable weather,
 Variable.
 *#and nature of the according to the Variable, &c. &c.
 the Moon
 sign and con- sign, &c. &c.
 figuration.
 In ai ry signs,
 Abundant rains,
 sometimes floods.
 Variable, &c.
 &c.
 Various, so me
south winds' Changeful , and Mutable, often 'i's stormy,
 Thé. Sun and watery, rain; if influenced by drizzly or moist, sometimes dry
 Mercury
 Moon
 retrograde,
 ways rain.
 a£| other configura- but ob serve sometimes wet,
 tions, &c. &c.
 Weather according
other planets.
 uncertain.
The Sun and to the configura, A:££ Observe other con- A#ing: #
 tions made at
 the time.
 figurations, &c.
 stars.
 p
 sun and moon.
76
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 A TABLE OF THE DIGNITIES, FORTITUDES, AND
 DEBILITIES OF THE SEVEN PLANETS
 Essential Dignities.
 A planet in his own house,
 or mutual reception by
 house, shall have digni- 5
 ties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 In exaltation, or reception 4
 by exaltation . . . . . . . . . . .}
 3
 In triplicity . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 ‘p East
 Debilities.
 In detriment ... . . . . . . . . 5
 In fall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
 Peregrine, or no dignities 5
 The Quarters Of Heaven Which The Signs Signify
 Su E. and by N.
 1 E. and by S.
 = West
 go North
 'M5 South
 II W. and by S.
 m N. and by E.
 8 S. and by E.
 : W. and by N.
 9é N. and by W.
 my S. and by W.
 The Quarters Of Heaven Which The Houses Signify
 First House,
 East.
 Second House, N. E. by E.
 Third House, N. N. E.
 Fourth House, North.
 Seventh House, West.
 Eighth House, S. W. by S.
 Ninth House,
 Tenth House,
 S. S. W.
 South.
 Fifth House, N. W. by W. Eleventh House, S. E. by S.
 Sixth House, W. N. W.
 Twelfth House, S. S. E.
 RARE AND VALUABLE ASTROLOGICAL SECRETS
 WHEN Mercury is in the tenth house, not impedite (or
 afflicted), the child then born will be mighty, wise, and a great
 philosopher.
 In the first beginning of any sickness, or at the time of a
 question for the state of a sick person, if the moon be corrupt or
 afflicted of Saturn in the three first degrees of Scorpio, it be
 tokens death.
 ~ *
 Hermes says, that an evil planet in Cancer doth threaten short
 life and continual sickness to the mother of the child then born.
 According to Taisnier, an evil planet in Leo doth show or
 betoken short life to the father of the child then born.
 They will have the palsy, or be so that they cannot move
 themselves, or will be given to tremble, in whose nativities the
 moon is in an angle with Saturn, Saturn then being under the
 beams of the sun, by which he becomes in combustion.
 When unfortunate planets are in angles, and the sun or moon
 applies to them corporeally, or by opposition, it signifies that the
 party then born will be either crook-backed, or will halt; or it
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 77
 signifies the destruction or loss of some member, especially if the
 moon be with the Dragon's Tail, in these signs, P, 8, co, m, or
 V5, chiefly when in the beginning or end of the sign.
 For curing diseases of the stone or gravel, the ancient learned
 did engrave on a plate of copper the figure of a scorpion, in the
 hour of Saturn; the third face of Aquarius arising with Saturn
 therein.
 For the gout, they made it under the sign Pisces; and for the
 helping or bettering of the memory, they made a ring of pure
 gold, wherein was enclosed a diamond under the conjunction of
 Saturn and Jupiter in Aries.
 When the sign of the sixth house is Libra and Mars in the
 same house, it signifies grief and pain of the eyes.
CHAPTER IX
 THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE TWELVE CELESTIAL
 SIGNS, IN NATIVITIES AND HORARY QUESTIONS
 On the earth’s orbit see the various signs:—
 Mark where the sun, our year completing shines:
 First the bright Ram his languid ray improves;
 Next, glaring wat'ry, through the Bull he moves:
 The am’rous Twins admit his genial ray:
 Now, burning, through the Crab he takes his way;
 The Lion, flaming, bears the solar power;
 The Virgin faints beneath the sultry shower;
 Now the just Balance weighs his equal force,
 The slimy Serpent swelters in his course;
 The sable Archer clouds his languid face;
 The Goat with tempests urges on his race;
 Now in the Water his faint beams appear;
 And the cold Fishes end the circling year.
 ‘P ARIES
 IT is an equinoctial, diurnal, cardinal, moveable, masculine,
 hot and dry eastern sign, of the fiery triplicity, choleric, bestial,
 intemperate, and violent.
 It endows the native with a dry body, lean and spare, of a
 middle stature, strong-limbed, big-boned; oval visage, sharp
 piercing sight, black eyebrows, thick, full, well-set shoulders, long
 indifferent neck, red or sandy hair; of a brown swarthy com
 plexion.
 78
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 8 TAURUS
 79
 Taurus is a cold, earthy, dry, feminine, melancholy, and noc
 turnal, southern sign, bestial and furious.
 It denotes a short, strong, full, well-set person, and, when
 provoked, as furious as the bull; a large and broad forehead, big
 face, great eyes, large wide mouth, thick lips, gross hands, and
 uncomely black hair, and sometimes curled, of a brown and
 swarthy complexion.
 II GEMINI
 Gemini is a sign hot and moist, aerial, diurnal, human, west
 ern, double-bodied, masculine, and of the airy triplicity.
 It gives a tall and upright stature, straight and well-made
 body, and complexion somewhat sanguine, but not clear; the arms
 are generally long, the hands and feet are short and fleshy, a
 curious hazel eye, dark or blackish hair, a strong active body, of
 a ready understanding and good fancy.
80
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 oE CANCER
 Cancer is a sign cold and moist, phlegmatic, liquid, feminine,
 nocturnal, and moveable, the summer solstice, and the watery
 triplicity.
 It represents one of a middle stature, the upper part of the
 body big, strong, and well set, round visage, and indifferently
 handsome complexion; sometimes wan, pale, and sickly; mean
 eyes, and dark brown hair.
 Su LEO
 Leo is a sign hot and dry, choleric, masculine, and diurnal;
 bestial, barren, and commanding; eastern, and the second of the
 fiery triplicity.
 It gives a large full body, above the middle size, broad and
 well-set shoulders, but narrow sides; yellow or flaxen hair, much
 thereof and curling; a great round head, and large eyes, yet quick
 sighted, and of a fierce and terrifying countenance; of a ruddy,
 high, and sanguine color; a strong, active, valiant, and courageous
 DerSOI).
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 81
 Virgo is an earthy, barren, cold, melancholy, feminine, south
 ern, nocturnal sign, and the second of the earthy triplicity.
 It denotes a person of a mean height, slender stature, but very
 neat and decently composed, dark brown,or black hair, round
 visage, not very beautiful, yet well favored, a small shrill voice,
 all the members inclining to brevity, and signifies the person is
 witty, discreet, of a pleasant conversation, very studious, and
 given to all kinds of learning.
 = LIBRA
 Libra is a cardinal, equinoctial, moveable, masculine, diurnal,
 sanguine, hot and moist, human, and western sign, and of the
 airy trigon.
 It represents the person to be of an indifferently tall and
 upright stature, and of a neat proportion, more slender than
 gross; of a round lovely visage; a sanguine ruddy complexion in
 youth, but in old age it generally brings spots or pimples, or a
 deep red color, in the face; the hair yellowish, or sandy flaxen.
82
 *
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 m SCORPIO
 Scorpio is a phlegmatic, watery, feminine, northern, fixed,
 and Nocturnal Sign.
 It gives the native a strong able body, the face somewhat
 broad or square, the complexion swarthy or muddy, sad brown
 or black hair, with plenty thereof and curling, the body hairy, and
 the neck thick and short, and generally a squat well-set person.
 't SAGITTARIUS
 This is a hot and dry, fiery, choleric, easterly, common, mas
 culine, and bicorporal sign, and is the last of the fiery triplicity.
 It denotes a person somewhat above the middle size, one of a
 well-favored countenance; the visage is somewhat long, but full
 and fresh colored, sometimes of a sun-burnt complexion, light
 brown or chestnut-colored hair, a strong able body, and of a
 comely proportion.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 V9 CAPRICORN
 83
 Capricorn is a cold and dry, feminine, nocturnal, earthy,
 melancholy, cardinal, moveable, solstitial, domestic, southern, and
 four-footed sign.
 It gives one of an indifferent stature, not very tall; his body
 is dry and spare, of a long, lean, and slender visage; his chin is
 long and narrow, thin beard, with dark brown or black hair; the
 neck long and small; the breasts are but narrow; the person gen
 erally inclines to brevity, with a disposition collected, witty, and
 subtle,
 A: AQUARIUS
 This is an aérial, sanguine, rational, fixed, human, diurnal,
 sanguine, masculine, hot and moist sign, western, and the last
 of the airy triplicity.
 It personates one of a thick, well-set, and comely stature, well
 composed, but not very tall; the visage somewhat long, but fleshy;
 a sanguine and moderately clear complexion, bright and fair or
 dark flaxen hair, soft and clear skin.
a------
84
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 >é PISCES
 Pisces is a nocturnal, watery, cold and moist, phlegmatic,
 feminine, wintry, common, bicorporal, northern, idle, effeminate,
 sickly, fruitful sign, and of the watery trigon.
 The person signified hereby is of a low and short stature, an
 ill-composed body, the face rather large, of a white or pale com
 plexion, the body fleshy or swelling, rather stooping when walk
 ing, and holding down the head.
CHAPTER X
 PROPERTIES AND INFLUENCES OF THE SUN,
 MOON, AND PLANETS
 AND, FIRST, of THE GEORGIUM SIDUs
 H GEORGIUM SIDUS
 THE Georgium Sidus is now considered the most elevated,
 though not the largest, of all the planets, approaching nearest to
 the starry firmament.
 He has no houses allotted him, but participates in the nature
 of the malevolent planet, Saturn, in the highest degree; and is
 therefore equally unfortunate, according to the place in which he
 falls, in the radical figure.
 b SATURN
 Saturn is in nature cold and dry, in consequence of being so
 far removed from the heat of the sun, abounds in moist vapors,
 and is a melancholy, earthy, solitary, diurnal, masculine, malevo
 lent planet: his effects, when lord of the ascendant, or principal
 ruler of a geniture, with all his qualities, are as follows:—He
 produces a middle stature, with a dark, swarthy, or pale com
 plexion, small leering black eyes, lean face, broad forehead, low
 ering brow, thick nose and lips, his head stooping, large eyes,
 broad shoulders, black or brown hair, thin beard, with small lean
 thighs and legs. If this planet be well dignified in the nativity,
 the native will be of an acute and penetrating imagination,
 reserved in conversation and austere in his conduct, very spare
 both in speaking and giving, grave in disputing, and patient in
 labor, very anxious and solicitous to obtain the goods of fortune,
 constant in his attachments to wife or friend, but severe and cruel
 in prejudice or resentment against any one. But, if this planet
 should be ill posited at the time of birth, the native will be nat
 urally heavy and lumpish, sordid, envious, covetous, mistrustful,
 cowardly, sluggish, outwardly dissembling, artful, false, stubborn,
 malicious, perpetually dissatisfied with himself, and all about him;
 and consequently of a most evil nature. When Saturn is oriental,
 the human stature will be shorter than usual, and, when occi
 85
86
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 dental, thin, lean, and less hairy. If his latitude be north, the
 native will be hairy and corpulent; if without any latitude, he will
 be of large bones and muscles; and if meridional, fat, smooth,
 and fleshy: in his first station, strong and well favored; and, in
 his second station, weak and ill-favored. These remarks likewise
 hold good with respect to the other planets.
 It is also to be remarked, that when Saturn is significator of
 travelling, he indicates long and laborious journeys, unfortunate
 adventures, and dangerous imprisonment. He is friendly to
 Jupiter, Sol, and Mercury; but at enmity with Mars, Venus, and
 the Moon.
 It should also be remembered that this planet is of a destruc
 tive nature, and debilitated at times; for, whenever he or Mars
 rises at a birth, in a debilitated state, it is more than probable
 that the child dies that year, unless Jupiter or Venus interpose
 with their friendly influences strongly in the sign.
 21 JUPITER
 Jupiter is a diurnal masculine planet, temperately hot and
 moist, airy and sanguine. When he rules over a nativity, or is
 lord of the geniture, he gives an erect and tall stature, a hand
 some rosy complexion, oval visage, high forehead, large grey
 eyes, soft thick brown hair, a well-set comely body, short neck,
 large wide chest, strong and well-proportioned thighs and legs,
 with long feet; he is sober and manly in speech, and in his con
 versation grave and commanding, and will give most excellent
 manners and disposition to the native. If well dignified at the
 time of his birth, he will be in general faithful and prudent, hon
 orably aspiring after noble actions, fair in his dealings, desirous
 of serving all men, just, honest, and religious, kind and affec
 tionate to his family and friends, charitable and liberal, wise and
 prudent, hating all mean and sordid actions. But, if Jupiter be
 debilitated and afflicted at the time of birth, he then indicates a
 profligate careless disposition, of mean abilities and shallow
 understanding; of no religious principle, addicted to evil com
 pany, easily persuaded to folly and extravagance, and a tyrant in
 his family. If this planet be eastward at the birth, the native
 will be more sanguine and ruddy, with larger eyes, and more
 corpulent. If occidental in a feminine geniture, it gives a most
 fair and lovely complexion to the female, her stature somewhat
 shorter, the hair light brown or approaching to flaxen, but thin
 round the temples and forehead.
When he is significator of journeys, he denotes pleasant
 travelling, good success, safety, health, and mirth.
 He is friendly with Saturn, Sol, Venus, Mercury, and Luna,
 but at enmity with Mars.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 87
 3 MARS
 Mars is a masculine, nocturnal, malevolent planet; in nature
 hot and dry, choleric and fiery: the lesser in fortune, author of
 quarrels, war, and battle. When this planet presides at a birth,
 it renders a strong well-set body, of short stature, but large bones,
 rather lean than fat, a brown ruddy complexion, red, sandy,
 flaxen, or light brown hair, sharp hazel eyes, round face, bold
 countenance, active, and fearless. If well dignified, the native
 will be of a courageous disposition, without fear or danger;
 hazarding his life on all occasions; of no reason in war or conten
 tion; unwilling to submit to any superior, and will endeavor to
 triumph over his enemy, and yet be prudent in the management
 of his private concerns. If the planet be ill posited, and afflicted
 with cross aspects, the party will then grow up a trumpeter of his
 own fame and consequence, without decency or honesty, a lover
 of malicious quarrels and affrays, prone to wickedness and
 slaughter, and in danger of committing murder, of robbing on the
 highway, of becoming a thief, traitor, or incendiary; of a turbu
 lent spirit, obscene, rash, inhuman, and treacherous, fearing
 neither God nor man, given up to every species of fraud, violence,
 cruelty, and oppression. If the planet be oriental at the nativity,
 the native will be above the middle stature, very hairy, and of a
 clearer complexion. If occidental, the native will be short, of a
 more ruddy complexion, a small head, with yellow hair, and a dry
 constitution. He is friendly only with Venus, and at enmity with
 all the other planets. In journeys, he portends danger of robbery,
 loss of life, and all the other perils attendant on the traveller.
 © THE MOON
 The Moon is feminine, nocturnal, cold, moist, and phlegmatic.
 Her influence, in itself, is neither fortunate nor unfortunate, but
 as she happens to fall in with the configurations of the other
 planets, and is then either malevolent or otherwise, as those
 aspects happen to be; and under these circumstances she becomes
 the most powerful of all the heavenly bodies in her operations, by
 reason of her proximity to the earth and the swiftness of her
 motion, by which she receives and transmits to us the light and
 influence of all the superiors, by her configurations with them.
 When she has rule in a nativity, she produces a full stature, with
 fair and pale complexion, round face, grey eyes, lowering brow,
 very hairy short arms, thick hands and feet, smooth body, in
 clined to be fat, corpulent, and phlegmatic. If she be impeded
 of the sun at the time of birth, she leaves a blemish on or near
 the eye; if she be impeded in succedent houses, the blemish will
 be near the eye; but, if unfortunate in angles, and with nebulous
88
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 f
 ixed stars, the blemish will fall in the eye, and will affect the
 sight.
 If she be well placed or dignified at the nativity, the
 native will be of soft engaging manners and disposition, a lover
 of the polite arts, and of an ingenious imagination, fond of novel
 ties, and given to travelling or rambling about the country; un
 stable, providing only for the present time, and careless of
 futurity; timorous, prodigal, and easily affrighted, but loving
 peace, and desiring to live free from the cares and anxieties of
 the world. If the native be brought up to a mechanical employ
 ment, he will be frequently tampering with a variety of different
 trades, but pursuing none of them long together. If the moon
 be unfortunate at the birth, the native will then be slothful,
 indolent, and of no forecast, given up to a drunken, disorderly,
 beggarly life, hating labor, or any kind of business or employ
 ment. When oriental, she inclineth more to corpulence; but,
 when occidental, rather lean, awkward, and ill-formed.
 She is in friendship with Jupiter, Sol, Venus, and Mercury,
 but at enmity with Saturn and Mars.
 9 VENUS
 Venus is a feminine planet, temperately cold and moist, noc
 turnal, the lesser fortune, author of mirth and conviviality, allur
 ing to procreation and to the propagation of the species. When
 she ascends at a nativity, she gives a handsome but not tall
 stature; complexion fair and lovely, bright sparkling eyes, of a
 dark hazel or black, the face round, regular, smooth, and engag
 ing; the hair bright brown, hazel, or chestnut, shining, and plen
 tiful; the body regular and well proportioned, and of a neat, '
 smart, and airy disposition; generally with dimples in the cheeks
 or chin, and often in both; the eye wandering, and naturally
 amorous; in motion light and nimble; in voice soft, sweet, and
 agreeable; inclined to amorous conversation and early arguments
 in love. If well dignified at the time of birth, the native will be
 of a quiet, even, and friendly disposition, naturally inclined to.
 neatness, loving mirth and cheerfulness, and delighting in music;
 amorous and prone to venery, though truly virtuous, if a woman;
 yet she will be given to jealousy, even without cause. If this
 planet be weak and afflicted by cross aspects, then will the native
 be riotous, profligate, abandoned to evil company and lewd
 women, regardless of reputation or character, a frequenter of
 taverns, night-houses, and places of ill fame; delighting in all the
 incitements to incestuous and adulterous practices; in principle, a
 mere atheist, wholly given up to the brutal passions of unbridled
 and uncultivated nature. If Venus be oriental at the time, the
 stature will be tall and straight; but, if occidental, short and
 stooping, though comely and well favored. If she be significator
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 89
 in a journey, and well dignified, she portends muchimirth,
 pleasure, and success, and promises safety and good fortune by
 the way.
 She is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, and the sun and
 moon; but at enmity with Saturn.
 5?
 MERCURY
 Mercury is the least of all the planets; in nature cold, dry, and
 melancholy; but author of the most pointed wit, ingenuity, and
 invention. He is occasionally both masculine and feminine, and
 lucky or unlucky, as his position in the heavens may happen to
 be. When he is in conjunction with a masculine planet, he is
 masculine; when with a feminine panet, feminine; good and for
 tunate, when joined with the fortunes; but evil and mischievous
 when in conjunction with malevolent aspects.
 When he governs a nativity, he denotes a tall, straight, thin,
 spare body, narrow face, and deep forehead, long straight nose,
 eyes neither black nor grey, thin lips and chin, with but little
 beard; brown complexion, and hazel or chestnut-colored hair; the
 arms, hands, and fingers, long and slender; and thighs, legs, and
 feet the same. If orientally posited, the stature will be shorter,
 with sandy hair, and sanguine complexion, somewhat sunburnt;
 the limbs and joints large and well set, with small grey eyes. But,
 _if occidental, the complexion will be quite sallow, lank body, small
 slender limbs, hollow eyes, of a red cast, and of a'dry constitu
 tion. If Mercury be well dignified at the time of birth, the person
 will inherit a strong subtle imagination and retentive memory;
 likely to become an excellent orator and logician, arguing with
 much eloquence of speech, and with strong powers of persuasion;
 —is generally given to the attainment of all kinds of learning; an
 encourager of the liberal arts; of a sharp, witty, and pleasant
 conversation; of an unwearied fancy, and curious in the search
 of all natural and occult knowledge; with an inclination to travel
 or trade into foreign countries. If brought up in the mercantile
 line, will be ambitious of excelling in his merchandise, and will
 most times prove successful in obtaining wealth.
 But, if he be evilly posited, or debilitated, then the native will
 betray a disposition to slander and abuse the character of every
 one, withoutdistinction; he will be a boaster, a flatterer, a syco
 phant busybody, a tale-bearer given to propagate idle tales and
 false stories; pretending to all kinds of knowledge,.though a mere
 idiot in his intellectual faculty, and incapable of acquiring any
 solid or substantial learning; apt to boast of great honesty, yet
 very addicted to mean and petty thievery.
 He is friendly with all the planets except Mars.
90
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 O SOL
 The sun is in nature masculine, diurnal, and dry, but more
 temperate than Mars, and, if well dignified, is always found
 equivalent to one of the fortunes. When he presides at a birth,
 the native is generally of a large, bony, strong body, of a sallow
 sun-burnt complexion, large high forehead, with light or sandy
 curling hair, but inclined to be soon bald; a fine, full, piercing,
 hazel eye; and all the limbs straight and well-proportioned. If
 he be well dignified, the native will be of a noble, magnanimous,
 and generous disposition; high minded, but very humane; of a
 large and benevolent heart, affable, and courteous; in friendship
 faithful and sincere; in promises slow, but punctual. The solar
 man is not of many words; but, when he speaks, it is with con
 fidence, and to the purpose: he is usually thoughtful, secret, and
 reserved; his deportment is stately and majestic; a lover of
 sumptuousness and magnificence; and possesses a mind far supe
 rior to any sordid, base, or dishonorable practices. If the sun be
 unfortunate, then will the native be born of a mean and loquacious
 disposition; proud and arrogant; disdaining all his inferiors, and
 a sycophant to his superiors; of shallow understanding and im
 perfect judgment; restless, troublesome, and domineering; of no
 gravity in words or soberness in actions; prone to mischievous
 ness, austerity, uncharitableness, cruelty, and ill-nature.
 He is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the
 Moon, but is constantly at variance with Saturn,
 g: DRAGON'S HEAD, AND 23 DRAGON'S TAIL
 The head of the Dragon is masculine, partaking of the nature
 both of Jupiter and Venus; but the Dragon's Tail is feminine, and
 of a directly opposite quality to the head. These are neither signs
 nor constellations, but are only the nodes, or points wherein the
 ecliptic is intersected by the orbits of the planets, and particularly
 by that of the moon, making with it angles of five degrees and
 eighteen minutes. One of these points looks northward, the moon
 beginning then to have a northern latitude; and the other points
 southward, where she commences her southern latitude. The
 head of the Dragon is considered of a benevolent nature, and
 almost equivalent to one of the fortunes, and, when in aspect with
 Evil Planets, is found to lessen their malignant effects in a great
 degree. But the Dragon's Tail will be always found of a most
 evil and unhappy tendency, not only tending to the malevolence
 of unfortunate aspects, when joined with them, but lessening
 considerably the beneficial influences of the fortunes, and other
 good aspects, whenever found in conjunction with them.
CHAPTER XI
 ’
 EXPLANATION OF TECHNICAL TERMS USED
 IN ASTROLOGY
 APPLICATION signifieth the approach of two planets together,
 either by conjunction or aspect, and is of three kinds: the first is
 when a planet swift in motion applies to one of a slower progress,
 which is termed a direct application; the second kind ~is formed
 by two retrograde planets, and this is termed a retrograde appli
 cation; the third kind is occasioned by one planet going direct in
 motion, and meeting another planet that is retrograde; and these
 two last are deemed evil applications. Observe, the superior
 planets never apply to the inferior, but by a retrograde motion;
 whereas the inferior planets apply both ways.
 Retrogradation implies an apparent motion in the planets,
 whereby they seem to go backwards in the ecliptic, and to move
 towards the antecedent signs, viz. from east to west, contrary to
 the succession of signs and degrees of the Zodiac, as, out of ten
 degrees, into nine, eight, seven, &c. This is in appearance pro
 duced by the opposite motion of the earth to that of the planets.
 Combustion.—A planet is said to be combust when situated
 within eight degrees, thirty minutes, of the body of the su‘n,
 either before or after him.
 Cazimi, is when a planet is situated in the heart of the sun,
 and is only seventeen minutes before or after the sun. All
 authors agree that a planet in Cazimi is fortified thereby, and is of
 greater efficacy; whereas a planet combust is of a malignant
 nature.
 Sun’s Beams.—A planet is always considered under the sun’s
 beams, until he is fully elongated fifteen degrees before and after
 his body.
 Void of course, is when a planet is separated from the body
 or aspect of another planet, and does not during its continuance
 in that sign form any aspect with any other. This most usually
 happens with the moon; and in practice it is observed, that if the
 significator of the thing propounded be void of course, the busi
 ness under contemplation will not succeed, nor be attended with
 any satisfactory or pleasing consequences.
 Besieging, signifies a planet situated between the bodies of the
 two malevolent planets, Saturn and Mars.
 91
92
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Increasing in light, is when a planet is departing from the
 sun, or the sun from a planet; thus, the moon at her greatest
 distance from the sun appears with thegreatest degree of light,
 having her whole orb illuminated.
 Separation, is when two planets have been lately in partile
 conjunction or aspect, and are just separated from it. The exact
 knowledge of every degree of the separations of these aspects is
 of the utmost consequence in giving judgment upon various
 important occasions.
 Frustration, is when a swift or light planet approaches to an
 aspect with one more slow and ponderous, but, before it can
 approach near enough to form that aspect, the weighty planet is
 joined to some other, by which the first aspect is frustrated.
 Refranation, is when a planet, in direct motion, applies to an
 aspect or conjunction with another planet, but, before they can
 meet, becomes retrograde, and thus refrains to form the aspect
 expected.
 Translation of light and virtue, is when a lighter planet sepa
 rates from a weighty one, and joins with another more ponderous,
 and is effected in this manner: let Saturn be placed in sixteen
 degrees of Aries, Jupiter in nine degrees, and Mars in ten degrees
 of the same sign; here Mars separates from a conjunction with
 Jupiter, and translates the light and virtue of that planet to
 Saturn, to whom he next applies. The effect of this in practice
 will be, that, if a matter or thing be promised by Saturn, then
 whoever was represented by Mars shall produce all the assistance
 that the benevolent planet Jupiter could possibly bestow, and
 translate it to Saturn, whereby the business in hand would be the
 better effected, and the more happily concluded.
 Reception, is when two planets that are significators in any
 question or nativity are posited in each other’s dignities, as the
 sun in Aries, and Mars in Leo, which is a reception by houses,
 and is deemed the most powerful and efficacious of all receptions.
 But reception may be by exchange of exaltation, or triplicity, as
 Jupiter in Aries, and the sun in Cancer, is a reception by exalta
 tion; so Venus in Aries, and the sun in Taurus, is a reception by
 triplicity, if the question or nativity happen by day. The use of
 these positions in practice is considerable; for, suppose the event
 of any question required be denied by the aspects, or the signifi
 cators be in no aspect with each other, or it is doubtful what may
 happen from a quartile or opposition of the significators ; yet, if
 the principal significators be found in mutual reception, the thing
 desired will shortly come to pass, and probably to the satisfaction
 and content of all the parties concerned.
 Peregrine, is when a planet is situated in a sign, or in such
 certain degrees of a sign, where it has no essential dignities, either
 by house, exaltation, or triplicity. In all questions of theft it is
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 .
 93
 very material to know the peregrine planet; for it has been
 uniformly found by every regular professor of this science, that
 the thief may almost constantly be discovered by the peregrine
 planet posited in an angle, or in the second house.
 Oriental and Occidental.—A planet, when oriental, rises
 before the sun; and, when occidental, sets after him, and is seen
 above the horizon after the sun is down; consequently, when a
 planet is oriental, it is posited in the east, and, when occidental,
 in the west.
 ‘
 Direction, is when a planet moves according to the succession
 of the signs, from west to east, or from ‘T’ to 5 , from 25 to 11;
 and out of five degrees, to six, seven, eight, and so‘ forward.
 Direction is also a calculation, whereby to find the time of any
 accident or remarkable event, that will happen to a person who
 propounds a question, or has his nativity cast. For instance, a
 person inquires how long he may live, by the course of the planets
 at the time of birth: having established the sun, moon, or ascend
 ant, as significators of life, and Mars or Saturn as promittors, or
 portentors of death, the direction is a calculation of the length
 of time in which the significators will be in meeting the promittor,
 and this resolves the question.
 Swift of Course, is when a planet moves farther than his
 mean motion in twenty-four hours, and he is slow of course when
 he moves less than his mean motion in the same portion of time.
 Declination, is the distance a planet swerves either north or
 south, from the equator or equinoctial line, in his circuit through
 the twelve signs of the zodiac.
 Right Ascension, is the number of degrees and minutes of the
 equinoctial line, reckoned from the beginning of Aries, and comes
 to the meridian with the sun, moon, star, or planet, or any portion
 of the ecliptic.
 Oblique ascension, is the degree and minute of the equinoctial
 line, that comes to, or rises with, the degree of longitude of any
 star or planet in the horizon; or it is the degree of the equinoctial
 line that comes to the horizon with any star or planet in an
 oblique sphere.
 Oblique descension, is the degree of the equinoctial line that
 sets in the horizon, with the degree of longitude of any star or .
 planet in an oblique sphere, making an oblique angle with the
 horizon.
 Ascensional difierence, is the distinction between the right and
 oblique ascension of any star or planet, reckoned in the equator.
 Circles of position, are circles passing through the common
 intersections of the horizon and meridian, and through any
 degrees of the ecliptic, or the centre of any star or other point
 in the heavens, and are used for finding the situation or position
 of any star or planet.
94
 .
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Horoscope, is a figure or scheme of the twelve houses of
 heaven, wherein the Planets and positions of the heavens are
 collected for any given time, either for. the purpose of calculating
 nativities, or answering horary questions. It also signifies the
 degree or point of the heavens rising above the eastern point of
 the horizon at any time required.
CHAPTER XII
 THE TWELVE HOUSES
 10
 South Angle
 12
 £”
 sy”
 *1
 2
 A DIAGRAM
 of The
 TWELVE HOUSES.
 North Angle
 3
 4
 7
 5
 6
 FIGURE OF THE HOROSCOPE, OR TWELVE HOUSES
 These twelve houses are each distinguished by their respective
 figures, and are either angular, succedent, or cadent. The angular
 houses are four, called the ascendant, mid-heaven or medium
 coeli, the seventh house, and the fourth or bottom of the heaven;
 these are deemed the most powerful and most fortunate houses.
 The succedent houses are the eleventh, eighth, and fifth, and are
 ranked in force and virtue to the angles. The third class, or
 cadent house, is the third, twelfth, ninth, and sixth; and is con
 sidered of the least efficacy of them all.
 DIRECTIONS FOR ERECTING A FIGURE OF THE
 HEAVENS, AND PLACING THE PLAN
 ETS IN THE HOROSCOPE
 AUTHORs differ in opinion with respect to the division of the
 circle of the heavens; but the method of dividing it by oblique
 ascension, as recommended by Ptolemy, and followed by Placidus,
 95--
96
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 is the most rational and correct way, and is now universally
 adopted.
 The best way is to erect a figure by the globe, but for those
 who are not in the possession of one, or who do not understand
 its use, we shall explain the usual method of doing it, by a table
 of houses, calculated for the latitude of London.
 In erecting a figure of‘ the heavens for any nativity, question,
 &c. these three following things are to be attended to :—
 nnavnnm
 FOR
 Saturday, Aug. 28,
 9 hours, 30 min.
 A. M. 1824.
 First, the year, month, day of the week, and the hour and
 minute of that day, either at the birth of a child, or a question
 propounded. Secondly, to observe, in an ephemeris of the same
 year and day, the true place of the sun, moon, and planets (which
 are given for noon that day) ; and, thirdly, note what hour and
 minute in the table of houses answer, or stand on the left hand,
 against the degree of that sign the sun was in on that day at 12
 o'clock: so, by looking in those tables for the time answering to
 the sun’s place, and adding that to the time of the day when the
 question was proposed, you have your figure.‘
 EXAMPLE ,
 We would erect a figure of the heavens for Saturday, August
 the 28th, 1824, at nine hours, thirty minutes a. m., that is, half
 past nine o’clock in the morning. To do this, I refer to the first
 column on the right hand side of the ephemeris for August, and
 opposite the 28th day of the month, in the second column, which
 has O’s longitude printed at the top, I find 5, 4, 43, with the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 97
 sign my prefixed at the side of the first row of figures. This
 indicates that the sun, at 12 o'clock that day, is in 5 degrees, 4
 minutes, and 43 seconds of the sign my ; but the minutes, when
 less than thirty, may be rejected without any material error; and,
 when more than thirty, may have as many minutes added to them
 as will make them up a degree. We therefore turn to the table
 of houses, and in the page entitled Q in mp, we look for the
 column that has the sign my at the top, which is the third; we
 seek for 5 degrees, and in the column of the left side of it, under
 the title time from noon, we find it even with 5 degrees, Io hours,
 27 min. The hours and minutes thus found are to be added to
 the time or hour of the day when the figure is to be erected;
 unless it be exactly at noon, in which case, the places of the sun,
 planets, and signs are to be set down exactly as they are found in
 the ephemeris and table of houses; but the present figure being
 to be erected 2 hours and 30 minutes before 12 o'clock, we must
 add this time, reckoning from noon the preceding day, to the
 above IO hours, 27 min., and, upon these two sums being added
 together, making above 24 hours, we subtract 24 from it, and the
 remainder will give the degrees of each of the 12 signs, as then
 posited upon the cusps of the horoscope; thus—
 Hours. Min.
 Time answering to 5 degrees of my. . . . . . IO
 27
 Time from noon the preceding day. . . . . . 2I
 Added together makes. . . . . . . . . . 3I
 Subtract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
 7
 3O
 57
 O
 57
 Which must be done in every figure, if, after addition, it makes
 more than 24 hours; but if less than 24, take the amount, which
 in this case, after subtraction, is 7 hours, 57 min.; and enter the
 table of houses in the column under the title time from noon with
 this remainder; but, not finding 7 hours, 57 min, we look for the
 nearest to it, which is 7 hours, 56 min., and in a line with this in
 the next column, on the right hand, we find 27, and, looking at
 the top of the column, we see it entered 10th house, 23, signifying
 that go must be placed on the cusp of the 10th house, with 27
 degrees affixed to it. This done, we must refer to the next
 column in rotation on the right hand, and in the same line with
 the 27th degree of 23, we find I deg. 42 min., and, looking up the
 column as before, we find my placed beneath Su, and 11th house at
 top; which signifies that I deg. 42 min. of my must be placed on
 the IIth house. We follow the same rule with the next column,
 when we find 29 deg. 14 min., and, looking to the top, we find
98
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 TQ 12; we accordingly place 29 deg. 14 min. on the cusp of the
 12th house. We then look to the next column, when we find 20
 deg. 26 min, and at the top the word ascendant with the sign =
 affixed, which signifies that 20 deg. 26 min. of = must occupy
 the first house or ascendant, which we place accordingly. We
 then look to the next column, and, even with the preceding
 figures, we find 16 deg. 36 min. We then look up the column, and
 find m placed underneath =, and 2d house at top. We accord
 ingly place m. I6 deg. 36 min. on the cusp of the 2d house.
 This done, we refer to the last column, and even with the former
 numbers find 19, 14, and, looking up the column as before, find
 4 placed beneath m, with 3d house at top, which indicates that
 19 deg. 14 min. of 4 must be placed on the cusp of the 3d house.
 Thus the six oriental houses are obtained, with the degrees of
 each sign then rising upon them: but here the learner must par
 ticularly note, that the last six signs are always opposite to the
 first six, as follows:—
 Houses. Opposite.
 1st is the 7th
 2d
 3d
 8th
 9th
 4th is the Ioth
 5th
 6th
 IIth
 I2th
 Signs.
 to
 to
 Co
 ‘p
 1m)
 ‘p
 8
 II
 Opposite.
 1/5
 ..:”
 %
 to
 =
 1m.
 1.
 Thus the IOth house is opposite to the 4th, and the 4th to the
 Ioth, the 11th to the 5th, and the 5th to the 11th, and so of the
 rest; the use of which is, that if on the cusp or the 10th house you
 find the sign co, then on the cusp of the 4th house you must place
 the sign V3, and whatever degree and minute the sign CE possesses
 the cusp of the Ioth house, the same degree and minute of the
 sign V3 must be placed on the cusp of the 4th house. The same
 rule must be observed with respect to all the other houses and
 signs, which is universal, and always holds true. For example,
 we shall here subjoin them as the several signs oppose each other
 in this figure, as follows:—
 Onthecuspofthe Iothis 27
 on the IIth
 I
 o go opposite4th27
 42
 m)
 onthe 12th 29 14 m).
 5
 I
 O
 42
 6 29 I4
 onthe Ist
 onthe 2d
 on the 3d
 20 26 =
 16
 36 my
 I9
 I4
 4
7 20 26
 8 16 36
 9 I9 I4
 |
 And thus are the twelve houses completely occupied with the
 twelve signs of the zodiac, with the degrees ascending at the
 precise time of erecting the figure.
ANCIENT‘ MANUSCRIPTS
 Y
 99
 Having so far succeeded, the next thing is to place the sun,
 moon, and planets in the figure, agreeably to their position at this
 time in the heavens, and this is to be done by the help of the right
 hand page of the ephemeris, of which White’s will be found the
 best. In this ephemeris their places are calculated for noon every
 day; but, as this figure is to be erected for 2 hours 30 minutes
 before noon, we observe how far they have moved from noon on
 the preceding day, as follows :
 Deg. Min. Sec.
 Surfs place at noon, August 28. . . . . . . . . . . . 5
 3
 43 ml
 —- onthe — 27. . . . . . . . . ...4 5 41 up
 0 58 2
 Which shows his motion to have been 58 min. 2 sec. in the 24
 hours. We therefore say, by the rule of proportion, if 24 hours
 give 58 min. 2 sec., what will I hour give? It gives near two and
 a half minutes; consequently, 2 hours 30 min. will give near 6 min.
 This 6 min. taken from 5 deg. 3 min. 43 sec. (as being before
 noon) leaves for the sun’s place 4 deg. 58 min. of the sign H12. On
 the above day you find the moon’s place at noon to be 2 29 deg.
 19 min., and on the day before (viz. the 27th) :~-_ 14 deg. 56 min.,
 which shows her daily motion to be 14 deg. 23 min., which makes
 her hourly motion about 36 min., and her place will be found to
 be 27 deg. 49 min. of the sign ‘'_~- ; the same day you find Satum’s
 place to be 7 deg. 25 min. of H, and, as he moves 3 min. a day, or
 about 8 sec. per hour, his true place will be about 7 deg. 24 min.
 of 11 on the same day. Jupiter will be found to be in 2 deg. 14
 min. of the sign S1,, and is found to move I3 min. per day; conse
 quently, its place will be about 2 deg. 1'3 min. of 61.. On the above
 day you find Mars in 12 deg. 53 min. of the sign TIL, which moves
 at the rate of 39 min. daily, and will be in about I2 deg. 49 min.
 of TIL. Venus is in 13 deg. 17 min. of 1111 on that day at noon, and
 is found to have moved I deg. I5 min. since noon on the preceding
 day, or about 3 min. an hour; therefore her true place will be
 found to be 13 deg. 9 min. of 1m. Mercury’s place at noon is 0
 deg. 13 min. of _-~_-, and is found to move I deg. 19 min. per day,
 or rather more than 3 min. per hour, and his place will be about
 4 min. of 2.
 The planets being thus entered, we next refer to the top of the
 right-hand page of the ephemeris for the column entitled the
 moon’s node, which is called the dragon’s head, and We find on
 the 25th day of the month it is in 6 deg. 31 min. of V5’; but, as it
 moves backward about 3 min. per day, I deduct 9 min. to bring it
 to the 28th of August, and its place will then be 6 deg. 22 min.
 of V3. We therefore enter it in the 3d house under the sign V3,
 and, as the place of the dragon’s tail is always opposite to the
100
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 dragon's head, we place it with the same degrees on the opposite
 sign, which in this figure falls on the 9th house, as being opposite
 to the third.
 This figure is now complete, except putting in the part of for
 tune, which is the distance of the moon's place from the sun's"
 added to the ascendant. There are many methods of taking it,
 but the usual one is as follows:—Add the ascendant to the moon's
 place, and from their sum subtract the sun's place, and the re
 mainder will be the place of fortune. Example:—
 Signs. Deg. Min.
 The ascendant is in 20 deg. 26 min. of = or 6 20 26
 The moon's place in 27 deg. 49 min. of = or 6 27 49
 Their sum.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 18 15
 The sun's place in 4 deg. 58 min. of my or. . . . .
 5
 Gives the place of the part of fortune. . . . .
 4 58
 8 13 17
 Which signifies 8 signs, 13 deg. 17 min., that is 13 deg. 17 min. of
 the sign t . When subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs must be
 added.
 PREDICTION OF THE CELEBRATED WILLIAM LILY,
 RELATIVE TO THE FRENCH NATION
 THIs celebrated astrologer thus prophesied of the French
 nation in the year 1626:—“And it shall come to pass, when the
 king and people of France have committed an act of great and
 flagrant treachery towards this land, that the Lord shall avenge
 his faithful people with vengeance a hundred fold. For he shall
 send an angel of dissension among the perfidious Gauls; they shall
 massacre each other for years, and prey upon their own flesh.
 The king shall seek an asylum he shall not find, and his desolate
 family shall beg their bread of their ancient enemies.”
 It scarcely need be hinted, how plainly this prediction has been
 in every part verified.
 fort *So far as the SUN is from the ascendant, so far is the moon from the part of
 OTÜV111C.
ANCIENT [MANUSCRIPTS
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 Calculated Expressly For The Present Occasion
 @ill "'0
 0 QQQQ6 42!?
 ll0239\7 QSIS
 2ll94Sl8 QI4
 8192598 4815
 101
102
 *
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 G) in II.
 £10!11||12|Ascen. || 2 | 3
 G) in go.
 #10|l1|12|Ascen.| 2 || 3
 Noon. It!"|Sl "g |m||*| No.12|&ng II |=|m
 H. M. grgrgrgr. m.grgr | H. M.grgrgrgr. m.grgr
 3 51 of 811| 7 2228|25|| 6 o' o' 6' 6 o 0.2424
 3 55 1 9||12| 8 6|29|26 || 6 4|| 1|| 7| 7| 0 4725/25
 4
 O 2|10|12| 8 50|A-27|| 6 9| 2 8, 8] I 332626
 4 4 3|10|13 9 34 1|28 || 6 13| 3| 9| 9] 2 1927|27-4
 8 4|11|14|10 18, 229 || 6 17 4|10|10| 3 5|27|28
 4 12 5|12|15||11
 3, 2|m| | 6 22 5|| ||10| 3 51/28/29
 4 16. 613||16.11 47| 3 i 6 26 6|12|11| 4 27|29|f
 4 21 7|14|17|12 31|| 4 2 || 6 31||7|13||12| 5 23|m| 1
 4 25 8|15|17|13 16. 5| 3 || 6 35 8|14|13| 6 9| 1| 2
 4 29 916,1814 1| 6’ 4|| 6 39| 9|15|14 6 55] 2 3
 1 4 33|10|17|19||14 46 7| 5 || 6 41|10|16|15| 7 40] 2 4
 4 38||11||18|2015 31 8| 6 || 6 48||11|1616 8 26 3| 4
 4 42|12||19|21.16 16, 8 7 6 52|12|17|16) 9 12 4 5
 4 46||1320|2||17
 || 9| 8 || 6 57|1318|17| 9 57 5, 6
 4, 51|14|2||22|17 46|10| 9 || 7
 ||14|19||18|10 41| 6, 7
 4 551522|23|18 3||1 ||10 || 7 5|15|20|19||11 28 7| 8
 4 59.1623|24|19 17|12|| 1 || 7 9|1621|20|12 14 8, 9
 5 3|17|24|25|20 4|13||12|| 7 14|17|22|2|1|12 59 8|10
 5 8,1825|26.20 49|14|13 || 7 18,1823|22|13 45 9|11
 5 12||19|25|27|21 35||14|14 || 7 22|19|24|22|14 30|1ó|12
 5 1620|26|28|22 20 1514|| 7 27|20/25/23 15 14|l 1||13
 5 21:21|27|28|23
 6, 1615 || 7 31|21|26|24|15 59||12|14
 5 25/22/28/29/23 51|17|16|| 7 35|22|27|25]16 44|13||15
 5 29|23|29|nyl]24 37|18|| 7 || 7 39|23|28|26.17 29||1316
 5 3424|Q| 1||25 25||19||18 || 7 44|24|29|27|18 14|14|17
 5 38|25 || 2.26 9|20|19|| 7 48|251p|28|18 58.15.18
 5 4326, 2 3|26 55|2020|| 7 51|26 il28|19 42|1619
 5 47|27 3| 4|27 41|2||21 || 7 56.27 229/20 26||17|20
 5 51|28 4|4|28 27|2222|| 8 0|28 3|*|21 1018/20
 5 5629) 5 5|29 13|23|23 || 8 5|29| 4|| 1|21 54|1821
 6 030, 6 630 0124|24 || 8 9130 512 22 38||19|22
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 G) in Q.
 #: 10|1 ||12|ASCen.||2 | 3
 ©in 7.
 #: 10|| 1|12|Ascen.|| 2|| 2
 Noon. 8|m|*| = |m|f | No...!"; "|*| m |t|\f
 H. M.grgrgrgr. mergr . H. M.grgr|grgr. m:gr:
 8 g| 0 5, 222 38||19|22|| 10 8| 0 22613 30|1320
 8 13| 1|| 5 323 22.2023 || 10 12| 1|| 326|14 9|1421
 8 17| 2 6 3|24 521|24|| 10 16] 2 427|14 46is22
 8 21] 3| 7 4
 8 25 4 8 5
 8 29 5 9| 6
 8 34 610) 7
 8 38 7|11|| 8
 8 42 8|12| 8
 8 46 9||13| 9
 8 50|10|14|10
 8 54||1 ||15|ll
 8 58|12|1612
 9 2|13||17|12
 9 614|18|13
 9 10|15||1814
 9 14|16|19||15
 9 18|17|2016
 9 22|18|2|1|16
 9
 9
 9
 9
 9
 9
 9
 9
 9
 10
 10
 10
 : :
 41|23|26/20
 45'24/27/21
 4925/2822
 53|26|28/23
 572729/23
 128]:#24
 5129] 1|25
 8:30 2/26
 20|| 3 52815 29|1623
 24| 4 529|16 91624
 28| 5 6.29|16 48|17|25
 31|| 6 7|m|17 28|1826
 35 7| 8 ||18 91927
 39| 8 9, 218 48.20/28
 42 9|10| 2|19. 28.2029
 46|10| | || 320
 50| 1 || 1 || 420
 54|12|12| 421 26.23
 57|1313| 522 524 3
 1|14|14 622 45|24
 5||5||15 7|23 24/25 5
 9|1616; 7.24
 12|17|17| 8.24 43|27| 8
 16|18|17| 925 23|28 9
 20||9||1310|26
 23|2019 1026 41
 27|21|20'1 1/27 22
 siz2|2||12|33
 34|23|22 13|28 40
 38'24.23||1329 20
 23|12|35 39
 45.2624 is of 39
 49|27|25,15] 1 19
 #2 8
 629.2617|2 39
 o'solz7|17|3 io
 103
 8121]:
 #| |
 426 6
 1|29|10
 |
 15
 |
 :20.
104
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 G) in a
 fonn
 G) in m
 #: Iolithglascen.|2|31%" liolullalascen. 12ls
 ... from
 *
 Noon.[*|*|m| 4 |V}]=|Noon. Imjm| f | f |*|%
 H. M. grgrgrgr. m.grgr|H. M. grgrgrgr. m.grgr
 12
 12
 12
 O] 0|27|17| 3
 4| 1|28,18! 3
 7| 2|29||19| 4
 12 11 3|m|20 5
 12 15| 4 ||20 6
 12 18: 5 ||21| 6
 12 22| 6 222 7
 12 26 7| 3|23| 8
 12 29| 8|4|23| 8
 12 33| 9 524].9
 12 37|10| 6|25|10
 12 40|l l] 6|25|10
 12 44|12| 726||11
 12 48|13| 8|27|12
 12 51[14] 9|28|12
 51] 022|10|25 15|10
 55 12311|26 5||11/28
 59. 224|1][26 50|12 on
 3| 3|25||12|27 47|14
 7| 426||1328 39||15
 11| 5|26|1429 31||
 15 627|15 Oyf24|18
 19| 7|28|15] 1 18|19|
22 829|16] 2 13|20
 26 9|f|17|3 1022
 30|10| 1|18, 4
 34|| 1|| 2|19|| 5
 38||12| 2|20, 6
 42||13 320|| 7
 6/23/10
 325||11
 l|26||13|
 0.28|14
 46|14| 42]| 8 0129.15
 12 5515|10|28|13
 12 59|16|| 1|29, 14
 13
 13
 3|17|| 1|f||15
 61slig|ilis
 13 10|19||13| ]]16
 13 14|20|14] 2 17
 13 18|21|15 3|18
 13 21|22|16 4|18
 |13 25|23|16 4|19
 13 29|24|17| 520
 13 S3|25||18, 6.21
 13 36|26||19| 722
 13 40|27|20 7|22
 13 44|28|21| 8|23
 13 48|29|21 9]24
 13 52|30|22|10|25
 5015 522 9 21%|17
 54|16 6|23|10
 58|17| 7|24|11
 5
 9
 2|18| 8|25||12 14
 6|19| 9|2613 21
 10|20 9|27|14 29
 14:21|10|27|15 37|| 1|24.
 18|22|l 1128|16 46||1326
 22|23|12|29|17 58|1427
 2624|13|y||19 11|1628
 31|25|14] 1 20 27|17|29
 35|2615, 221 43||19|8
 39|27|16] 3|22
 321| 2
 43|28|17| 4|24 24|22 3
 47|29, 18, 5.25 4624 5
 51|30, 18 6127 10]26 6
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 G) in f
 Onn
 Q) in VP
 £|10|uiz Ascen|2|3| £|19||1|12|Ascen:|2|3
 from
 Noon. t|t|v < |x|8|N.V; V = * |8|II
 H. M.grgrgrgr. m. g|H. M.gr grgrgr. m.gr|gr
 5]| 0| 18, 6.27 10
 55 1|19| 7|28 37
 0 220) 8 0::: 6
 4| 3|21. 9] 1 37
 8| 4|22|10| 3 || 1
 12| 5|23|ll 4 48
 16 6|24|12| 6 27
 21| 7|25||13| 8
 8
 25 8|26|14| 9 52
 29, 9/27|16||11 40
 33|10|28|17|12 30
 38||11|29|18|15 20
 42|12|y||19||17 16
 46||13| ||2019 15
 51|14 2.2]|21 17
 55!15 3/22/23 24
 59,16 4|24|25 32
 4|17| 5|25|27 44
 818, 62629 58
 11||19| 7|27] 23:17
 16:20) 829 4 38
 2021. 9]: 7 0
 25:22|10| || 9 24
 30,2311| 3|ll 53
 3:2:12 || 33
 38.25||13| 516 59
 4326|14} 7|19. 32
 47|27|15| 822
 5
 5I]28|16|10|24 39
 5629|17|11|27 20
 0|30|18|1330
 0
 0 018|13| 0 0|17|11
 4| 1|20|14} 2 37|19||13
 9, 221|16, 5 1920|l4
 13| 3|22|17| 7 5522]15
 17| 4|23||19||10 2923|16
 22. 524|2013 2.25||7
 26 625/2215 37126|18
 30|7|26|23|18
 35 827|25|20 35|29|20
 39 929|27|23 O|II|2]
 44|10|:::/2925- 22 J|22
 48||11| 1|X|27 43 2123
 52|12| 2 2 08 0 424
 57|13 3| 3 2 16, 525
 1|14| 4|| 5|| 4 27| 6|26
 5|15 6 7| 6 33 827
 9|16. 7 9|8. 39) 928
 14|17| 8|10|10 43|10|29
 1818, 9|12|12 42|ll|gs
 22|19||10|14|14 40|12| 1
 27|2012|1616 31||13, 2
 31|21||1318||18 2014 3
 3522:14|19|20
 39|23|15|2]|21 52|17| 5
 44|24|1623|23 33|18| 6
 48|25, 1825|25 |3|19| 7
 52|26||19|27|26 4920) 8
 56.27 20|28.28 22|2]| 9
 0 28.21 op|29 5322|10
 5|2923 2 11123,2311
 930.24 41 2 50|24|12|
 105
 7|28||19
 7|16 4
106
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 NEW TABLES OF HOUSES
 For The Latitude Of 51 Degrees, 32 Minutes
 Q) in :.
 from
 Time holinhala
 scen. 12
 G) in X.
 3| Time
 from 10|11|12|Ascen.|2|3
 Noon. =|=|r II |I|->|Noon. |x|*|8| 2 |<>|9.
 H. M.grgrgrgr. m.grgr|H. M.grgrgrgr. m.grgr
 20 9| 0|24|4| 2 50,24|12|22 8 0 320 4 45|20, 8
 20 13 1/25 6' 4 14|25|12|22 12, 1] 4/21] 5 3521| 8
 20 17|2|27| 7 5 37|26||1322 16 2 623 6 23|22 9
 20 21|3|28 9 6 5827|14|22 20 3| 7|24| 7 1223|10
 20 25 4|29|ll 8 172815|22 24 4| 8|25, 8 0.23|ll
 20 29 5|X|13| 9 3329|1622 27 5 926 8 4824|12
 20 34 6 2.14|10 49go
 20 38 7|3|16.12 3| 1
 20 42| 8 4|18|13 14| 2
 20 46 9 6|19||14 24 3
 6|1028 9 35|25||13
 7|12|29.10 22|2614
 8|13 II |ll
 7|26|]4
 9|14|| ||11 52'27|15
 20 50|10|7|21|15 32 3
 20 54|11| 8|23||6 40 4
 20 58|12| 9|24|17 46, 5
 21
 21
 213||11|26|18 51: 6
 614|12|28|19 56 7
 21 1015 132920 58 8
 21 14|16.15|8|22 0 9
 21 18|17|16 2.23 0.10
 21 22|18|17| 4|23 59|10
 21 26||19||19| 524 58|ll
 21 30|2020 7|25 55]]2
 21 342]|22 826 5]|13
 21 38|22|23|10|27 47|14
 21 4]|2324|11|28 41|15
 10|15 212 37|28|16
 l]|17|3|13 28.29.17
 12||18, 4|14
 |2
 729.18
 13||19||5|14 52|Q |19
 14|20' 6|15 35 j|19
 15|2]| 7|16 17] 220
 1623 817 1|2|2]
 17|24|9|17 44, 322
 18|25|10|18 26 4123
 1926||11||19
 9 5|24
 20|27|12|19 52. 524
 21|29||1320
32
 22| 8 ||1421 14
 25.
 26
 23| ]|}521 56 7|27
 21 4524/25||1329 3615
 21 4925/26/14] 02:29|16
 21 5326|28|15 1 22|17
 21 57272916, 2 14|18
 22
 22
 1|280p/18] 3
 4|19
 529, 2|19| 3 56|19
 22 830 320|| 4 4520
 24] 216:22 37 828
 25 3|17|23 18, 9.28
 26 4|1823 59) 929
 27 5|1924 39|10|ml
 28 62025 21 l
 29, 821|26 2.12| 2
 30, 92226 43: 3
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 A TABLE
 107
 For Finding The Hourly Motion Of The Moon, And Thereby
 Her True Place At Any Time Of The Day
 g ll 46 | 11 56 | 12 6 || 12 16 | 12 26 || 12 36
 e
 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. I d. m. d. m.
 0 29 || 0 30 || 0 30 0 1 O 31 0 31
 0 59 1 0 1 0 1 30 1 2 1 3
 1 28 1 30 1 31 1. 32 ] 33 1 35
 1 58 1 59 || 2 1 2 3 || 2 4 2 6
 2 27 2 29 || 2 31 2 84 2 35 2 37
 6 2 57 2 59 3 1 3 4 3 6 3 09
 7
 8
 9
 10
 11
 12
 3 26 3 29 || 3 32 3 35 3 38 3 40
 3 55 3 59 4 2 4 6 4 9 4 12
 4 25 4 28 4 32 4 36 4 40 4 43
 4 54 4 58 5 3 5 7 || 5 || 1 5 15
 5 24 5 28 5 33 5 37 5 42 5 46
 5 53 5 58 6 3 6 8 6 13 6 18
 13 || 6 22 6 28 || 6 33 || 6 39 || 6 44 || 6 49
 14
 15
 16
 6 52 6 58 7 3 7 9 7 15 || 7 21
 7 21 7 28 7 34 7 40 7 46 7 52
 7 51 7 57 8 4 8 11 8 17 8 24
 17 | 8 20 8 27 | 8 34 8 41 8" 48 || 8 55
 18
 8 49 8 57 9 4 9 12 9 19 9 27
 19
 20
 9 19 9 27 9 35 | 9 43 9 51 9 58
 9 48 9 57 | 10 5 || 10 13 | 10 22 | 10 30
 21 | 10 18 10 27 | 10 35 | 10 44 || 10 53 | 11 1
 22 10 47 | 10 57 | 11 6 || 11 15 | 11 24 l l 33
 23 11 17 | 11 26 || 11 36 || 11 45 | 11 55 | 12 4
 24 ll 46 ||1 || 56 | 12 6 | 12 16 || 12 26 | 12 36
108
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 A TABLE
 For Finding The Hourly Motion Of The Moon, And Thereby
 Her True Place. At Any Time Of The Day
 # 12 46 12:56, 18 6|| 13 16 13 26 13 36 13 46 13 56
 * | d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m. d. m.
 1 0 32 0 32 0 33 0 33 0 34 0 34 0 34 0 35
 2. l
 4 l 5 l 5, 1 6 1 8] 1 8] 1 9] 1 10
 3| 1 36] 1 37] 1 38. 1 39] 1 42| 1 42] 1 43] 1 44
 4; 2 8, 2 9 2 11] 2 13 2 14] 2 16 2 18, 2 19
 5, 2 40] 2 42] 2 44] 2 46, 2 48] 2 50] 2 52] 2 54
 6 3 11| 3 |4|| 3 16. 3 19 3 21] 3 24 3 26, 3 29
 7| 3 43) 3 46 3 49 3 52' 3 57| 3 58| 4 || 4 4
 8| 4 15 4 19 4 22' 4 25 4 29| 4 32 4 35 4 39
 9| 4 47| 4 51| 4 55 4 58 5 2 5 6' 5 10 5 13
 10 5 19| 5 23| 5 27| 5 32 5 36 5 40, 5 44|| 5 48
 11| 5 5]] 5 56' 6 0 6 5) 6 9. 6 14| 6 19 6 23
 12 6 23| 6 28 6 33 6. 38; 6 43| 6 48] 6 53 6 58
 13| 6 55] 7 0 7 6 7 11| 7 17| 7 22 7 27| 7 33
 14 7 27 7 33 7 38 7 44|| 7 50) 7 56 8 2 8 8
 15) 7 59) 8 5| 8 || || 8 |7| 8 24 8 30, 8 36 8 42
 16, 8 31|| 8 37| 8 44 8 51 8 57, 9 4| 9 | || 9 |7
 17| 9 3| 9 10 9 17| 9 24| 9 31|| 9 38 9 45 9 52
 18, 9 34|9 42 9 49, 9 57|10 410 1210 1910 27
 1910 610 14|10 22.10 3010 38.10 4610 54|ll 02
 2010 38||13 47|10 55||11 3|ll 12||11 2011 2811 37
 21'11 10|l 1 1911. 27|ll 36||11 45|ll 54|12 312 11
 2211 4211 51|12 0.12 1012 1612 28|12 37|12 46
 2312 14|12 24|12. 33|12 43||12 52||13 2/13 1212 21
 * 4612 56.13 613 1613 2613 3613 4613 56
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 A TABLE
 109
 For Finding The Hourly Motion Of The Moon, And Thereby
 Her True Place At Any Time Of The Day
 r|14 6||14 1614 2614 3614 4614 5615 6|15 16
 9|d. m. d. m.d. m. d. m. d. m.d. m. d. m.d. m.
 1 0 35' 0 36 0 36|| 0 3614 57| 0 37| 0 38|| 0 38
 2] 1 10 l ll l 12| 1 |2| 1 |4|| 1 15] 1 15 l 16
 3 l 46 1 47 l. 48 l 49 l 51] 1 52' l 53 l 54
 |4| 2 21, 2 23, 2 24 2 26, 2 28, 2 29 2 31 2 33
 5] 2 56] 2 58] 3 0 3 3| 3 5. 3 7| 3 9| 3 || |
 6 3 31] 3 34 3 36 3 39 4 41|| 3 44 3 46 3 49
 7| 4 7| 4 10 4 12] 4 15 4 18 4 22 4 27, 4 27
 8| 4 42] 4 46 4 49 4 52 4 55 4 59 5 2 5 5
 9] 5 17| 5 2]] 5 25, 5 28 5 32 5 36 5 40 5 43
 10| 5 52 5 57| 6 || 6 5 6 9. 6 13 6 17| 6 22
 11] 6 28 6 32 6 37| 6 41| 6 46 6 51| 6 55 7 0
 12| 7 3| 7 8 7 13| 7 18 7 23| 7 28 7 33 7 38
 13| 7 38 7 44, 7 49, 7 54 8 0 8 5 8 l]] 8 16
 14|| 8 13 8 19| 8 25, 8 31|| 8 37| 8 43| 8 48 8 54
 15| 8 49| 8 55, 9 || 9 7| 9 14| 9 20, 9 26 9 32
 16 9 24 9 30 9 37| 9 44, 9 51 9 57|10 410 ll
 17| 9 5910 610 1310 2010 28|10 35|10 42|10 49
 18|10 34|10 42|10 49' 10 57|11 4|11 12|ll 19|ll 27
 19|11 10|ll 18|ll 2611 31|ll 41|ll 49|ll 57|12 5
 20|ll 45|ll 58|12 2.12 10.12 18|12 27|12 35||12 43
 2]|12 2012 29|12 38||12 4612 55||13 4|13 13||13 2]
 |22|12 55||13
 5||13
 14|13 23||13 33||13 41||13 50|14 0
 23||13 31||13 40||13 50|14 5914 39|14 18|14 28||4 38
 24|14
 614 1614 26|14 3614 4614 5616 6 15 16
110
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 The use of this table is to find (by an ephemeris) the true
 place of the moon at any particular time of the day. It must be
 remembered that all astronomers begin the day at noon, and count
 24 hours to the day: so that, beginning one day at noon, the same
 ends the next day at noon; thus, I in the afternoon is the first
 hour of the day, and 13 hours after noon is the next day I in the
 morning. Now in the ephemeris, the moon’s place in the third
 column in every month is exactly calculated to the meridian of
 London; and, to know her daily motion, you must subtract the
 place of the moon one day, from her place the following day, by
 adding 30 degrees (if »need require it), which gives her daily
 motion; then look for the same in the head of the table, or the
 nearest number you can find to it, and under it is the motion of
 the moon, agreeing to that time.
 Example?-To find the place of the moon on the 18th day of
 January at 8 at night: her place at noon is 11 12 deg. 42 min. and
 the next day in 27 deg. 8 min. of the same sign ; therefore, her
 diurnal motion is I4 deg. 26 min.: then I find the nearest number
 to this, viz. I4 deg. 26 min. in the head of the table, and against
 8 hours are 4 deg. 42 min. which being added to II 12 deg. 42 min.
 her place at noon, the sum will be 11 17 deg. 8 min. her place at
 8 o’clock that night.
 We have given‘ these tables of the moon's motion, with a view
 to assist those persons who study horary astrology, for it often
 happens that they have not time to work a sum; therefore, these
 easy tables willbe found. very acceptable to the work.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 A TABLE
 111
 To Reduce The Motion Of The Planets To Any Hour Of The
 Day Or Night
 3%
 5-: One Hour‘s
 5§ Motion.
 D or D M S
 E:-5‘; One H_our's
 '5 § Motion.
 E5
 5% One liour's
 '5 5;
 MOMM
 0 D M S D0!‘ D M S
 M M S T M M S T M M S T
 l
 0 2 30 22 055 0 43 1 47 30
 2 0 5 0 23 O57 30 44 I 50 0
 3 0 7 30 24 I 0. 0 45 I 52 30
 4 0 10 0 25 1 2 30 46 1 55 0
 5 0 12 30 26 1 5 Q 47 1 57 30
 6 0 15 0 27 1 7' 30 48 2 0 O
 7 0 17 30 28 l 1~ 0 49 2 2 30
 8 0 20 0 29 1 12 30 50 2 5 0
 9 0 22 30 30 l 15 O 51 2 7 30
 10 0 25 0 31 1 I7 30 52 2 l0 0
 ll 0 27 30 32 1 20 0 53 2 12 30
 12 0 30 0 33 l 22 30 54 2 I5 0
 13 0.32 30 .34 1 25 0 55 2 l7 30
 14 O 35 0 35 1 27 30 56 2 20 0
 15 0 37 30 36 1 30 0 57 2 22 30
 16 0 40 0 37 1 32 30 58 2 25 0
 17 O 42 30 38 1 35 0 59 2 27 30
 18 0 45 0 39 1 37 30 60 2 30 0
 19 0 47 30 40 1 40 0 6| 2 32 30
 20 0 50 0 41 l 42 30 62 2 35 0
 21 0 52 30 42 1 45 0 63 2 37 30
 To find the true place of each planet at any hour when we
 have occasion to erect a figure, it only requires to turn to the
 ephemeris for the planets’ places at noon; which being found, note
 how many degrees or minutes they move in the zodiac, by twelve
 o'clock the next day, or from noon the preceding day, and then,
 by the help of the above table, it will be seen how many degrees,
 minutes, or seconds, they move in an hour. For example, suppose
 a planet moves I degree in 24 hours, how far does it move in I
 hour? At the top of the first column is the figure I, and in the
 same line of the second column is 2 minutes and 30 seconds;
 which shows, that if a planet be 24 hours in moving I degree, it
 then moves 2 minutes and 30 seconds in an hour. Or suppose a
 planet only moves 2 minutes in 24 hours, look into the first
112
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 column of the table for the figure 2; opposite, in the second
 column, stands 4 seconds, which shows that, if a planet moves
 2 minutes in 24 hours, it then only moves 5 seconds in an hour.
 The same rules are to be observed in the motions of all the
 planets; but let it be carefully remembered, that if the diurnal
 motion of any planet be in degrees, then you must enter the first
 column of the table under the denomination of degrees, and the
 second column with minutes and seconds; but, if the diurnal
 motion of the planet be only in minutes, then you must begin to
 reckon in minutes, &c.
CHAPTER XIII
 THE OPERATION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES
 THE first house, which is denoted by the figure I, is called the
 ascendant, because, the point of its angle being level with the
 horizon, whatever planet ascends from under the earth must
 ascend upon this line, and become visible first in this house. The
 line upon which the planets ascend, or move, is called the cusp of
 the houses, and that of the ascendant is generally reckoned to
 extend about five degrees above the earth, and twenty-five degrees
 beneath. Now,_ the quality of whatsoever part of the heavens
 occupies, or fills up, the degrees of this house, carries along with
 it the health, life, and nature of every infant or thing that is con
 ceived or brought forth within its jurisdiction. And hence hath
 this point of the heavens a faculty of attracting or receiving the
 virtues of the celestial matter, that is accidentally ascending in
 that part of heaven at the birth, and also of the planets and fixed
 stars in their transits; and all the rays of the planets, in their
 aspects and conjunctions, are attracted into this part of heaven,
 in order to the formation of the shape, stature, temperature of
 the body, quality of the mind, and all accidents and contingencies
 which shall befall the native’s body, or health, or life, unto his
 dying day: such a sympathy is there between this part of the
 heavenly frame, and of every act and thing' that is produced, or
 receives life under it. For as the seed in the ground, after it has
 taken root, buds forth, and appears above ground, so the heavenly
 intelligences, after they have framed the embryo, and the tem
 perament thereof, under the earth, give it life and being of its
 own, putting forth level with them just as they ascend.
 Now, since the first house or ascendant gives birth and life to
 the native, it follows that those houses which are the attendants
 on and upholders of life should be joined with it; and as chil
 dren, or the native’s offspring, are the upholders of life in this
 world, and religion and learning the grand means of upholding it
 unto eternity in the other world, so the houses which contribute
 these blessings to the life already given, are joined in an har
 monious trine with the first house, making up that a threefold
 cord, which, as Solon saith, can never be broken. The one is a
 succedent house, called the fifth house, and the other a cadent
 house, called the ninth house; and to be convinced of the effects
 of this fifth house, note the heavenly matter, planets, stars, and
 113
114
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 aspects, therein posited at the time of birth, according to the rules
 here laid down, and they shall truly represent the number and
 state of the native’s offspring, and all other particulars relative to
 children. So also examine the state of the ninth house, and as
 that represents, so shall the native be inrespect of religion and
 science; for the heavenly matter, planets, stars, and aspects there
 in, shall show what and how the man shall prove, whether wise or
 foolish, devout or schismatical, in this respect.
 The second angular point of the houses of heaven is called
 the mid-heaven, which is that point which culminates, being the
 very top or highest point of the heavenly frame. And whatever
 part of the heavens happens to be culminating in this point at the
 birth of any person or thing, that it takes charge of, and carries
 along with it, ever after, the preferment, honor, profession, situa
 tion, and authority of the native; and, as the nature of the planets,
 stars, aspects, and heavenly matter happens to be, that are situ
 ated in this point, or in the degrees pertaining to it, so shall the
 native prove in his life-time, in point of dignity, advancement,
 and reputation in this world, whether high or low, fortunate or
 unfortunate, favored or disgraced. The attendants upon, and
 upholders of man’s honor and dignity, as the scriptures and every
 day's experience perpetually show us, are wealth and servants.
 The first of these is attached to the mid-heaven in a succedent
 house, called the second house of heaven; and the other in a
 cadent house, called the sixth house of heaven; and these two are
 situated in an harmonious trine with the angular point of the
 mid-heaven. And now well observe what the planets, stars,
 aspects, and heavenly matter are in either of these houses at the
 time of birth, and sudh shall the native’s fortune prove in respect
 of riches and subordinate dependents; in the second house for
 wealth, and in the sixth for servants or dependents.
 The third angle of the figure of heaven is the seventh house,
 or point of the heavens and degrees contingent, which are always
 descending, or setting out of our horizon, and sinking under the
 earth; and this point is directly opposite to the eastern angle or
 ascendant. Now, as the rising heaven or ascendant is the begin
 ning and conduit of life, so this setting‘heaven, level with the
 ascendant, is the bringing all mundane affairs level with life: such
 as our entrance into the state of marriage; our contracts and
 enterprises in business, war, and travel; our connections and
 success therein, whether with friends, strangers, or enemies; and
 these whether honest men, parasites, or thieves. And the heavenly
 matter, planets, stars, and aspects, situated in this angle at a
 nativity, apparently show how a man shall fare in respect of
 wives, more or less, any or none, good or bad: and, in matters of
 business or adventure, how fortunate or unfortunate he may be
 likely to prove; and, with enemies or thieves, how far he is likely
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 115
 to be injuredby them. Necessary upholders of marriage, supporters
 in trade and travel, and defenders against thieves, plunderers,
 and enemies, are friends, relations, and neighbors; and these in a
 trine to the seventh house are brought forth, the first out of the
 eleventh house of heaven, a succedent house, and the other out of
 the third house of heaven, a cadent house. This eleventh house,
 by the planets, stars, aspects, and heavenly matter therein, points
 out the state of a man’s friends and hopes in this life: and the
 third’house describes, by the same means, how happy or unhappy
 a man shall prove in his relations, connections, and neighbors.
 The last angle of heaven is the fourth house, called the bottom
 of heaven, and represents that point which, in our conception,
 seems to hang at the very bottom of the round ball of the celestial
 world, being diametrically opposite to the exterior, or mid-heaven.
 And, as that shows what a man in the course of nature shall rise
 to in the world, this, on the contrary, declares what and when
 shall be his fall, decay, and death. This house has therefore
 signification of the end of every worldly concern, and, amongst
 other ends, of the grave, which is the end of all men living, how
 ever dignified or great. And the planets, stars, and aspects,
 posited in this house at the time of birth, never fail to show what
 kind of end will most probably happen to the native; for, as the
 twelve signs have each their particular and visible effects upon
 and over every part of man’s body, and as the planets and their
 aspects show in what sign the native shall be impedited, that is,
 in what part of the body the root of his natural infirmity shall be
 placed, and what accidents shall befall him during life, so is it an
 easy process to point out the manner of his death, and whether
 natural, honorable, or ignominious. The upholders of this angle
 are the houses of tribulation and death: the one a succedent house,
 called the eighth house, or house of death; and the other a cadent
 house, called the twelfth house. And now let it be carefuly ob
 served what planets, stars, aspects, and heavenly matter occupy
 these houses at the time of birth, and they shall point out, in the
 twelfth house, all the principal misfortunes, afliictions, and tribu
 lations of the native’s life, and in the eighth house the time and
 manner of his death.
 Independent of the faculties hitherto specified, each of these
 houses of heaven has other significations and effects, which are
 demonstrated in various ways. For instance, the ascendant repre
 sents the native coming into the world, and the fourth house at
 the same time represents the parents of the native going out; for
 “one generation goes off, and another always comes in,” accord
 ing to the course of nature. Of these parents, the father is more
 especially signified by the fourth house; and then, secondarily, but
 not so forcibly, the mother of the native is signified by the tenth
 house, and the grandfather by the seventh, and uncles, aunts, and
116 '
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 relations on the father’s side by the sixth, and uncles, aunts, and
 relations on the mother's side by the twelfth. Hence, also, it
 comes to pass, that by the fourth house are signified houses and
 lands, and all degrees of patrimony left by the father; and by the
 eighth house are shown all goods and legacies left by will of the
 deceased. The second and sixth house in half trine to the house
 of the grave, and in opposition to the eighth and twelfth, have a
 secondary signification of sickness and death.
 Such are the qualities and operations of the twelve houses of
 heaven; but these qualities are sometimes materially altered and
 changed for the better or worse, either by the means of the moon
 being a conductor, or some other of the celestial motions. or afiec
 tions. It is certain that the moon circles the earth once in twenty
 eight days; but in this perambulation she neither keeps the sun's
 pathway in the ecliptic, nor continues her course constantly on
 the same side of it; but once in every fourteen days she crosses
 the ecliptic, alternately to her north'and south declination; and it
 is found by repeated and correct observation that the point in the
 heavens where she crosses the line is strongly affected by her
 motion. The moon is the great body of life and growth, and,
 when she passes the ecliptic to the north, which brings her nearer
 into this northern world, she then gives an extraordinary degree
 of fruitfulness, which wonderfully strengthens with its influence
 whatsoever happens within the line of its jurisdiction. And this
 point, wherever it falls, is called the moon’s north node, but is
 distinguished in astrological works by the name of the £3
 Dragon’s Head, as already explained. If Jupiter or Venus hap
 pen to be in these degrees, it makes them much stronger and
 more efficacious in their benevolent operations; but, if Saturn or
 Mars be posited there, it gives them, on the contrary, a stronger
 inclination to prove mischievous and unfortunate. When the
 moon intersects the ecliptic line to her southern declination, she
 leaves that point of the heavens where she crosses it, which is
 termed the 8 Dragon’s Tail, as barren, to all intents and pur
 poses, as the other was fruitful; and it weakens as well the
 benevglent auspices of 7-! and 9 as the evil inclinations of
 5 an 6.
 Next to the nodes the GB part of fortune has its operation
 upon these twelve celestial houses. The point which we term the
 part of fortune is only the distance of the moon's place from the
 sun's, added to the degrees of the ascendant; and the nature of it
 is, as constant observation ascertains, that if this point falls
 among fortunate stars, or in a fortunate part of the heavens, then
 it promises great success in health, wealth, honor, or offspring,
 or any other species of prosperity, according to its position, either
 in the first, eleventh, or fifth houses, or in any others. The‘ reason
 of this appears to be, that the sun, moon, and ascendant, being the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 117
 prime conduits through which the stream of life flows, this seat
 of the 69 part of fortune is the harmony of all three, concentring
 and uniting in the same acts of benevolence.
 Thus far we have seen the operations of the twelve houses of
 heaven, as they appertain to the time and circumstances of a
 nativity. We shall now explain their properties in that system
 of nature upon which the doctrine of nativities and horary ques
 tions is grounded; and such has been the industry and indefatig
 able labor of our forefathers in bringing this science to maturity,
 and in discovering and distinguishing the particular significations
 and effects of all positions of the planets in the twelve houses of
 heaven, that whoever takes the pains to inform himself suf
 ficiently of them, will not be in want of competent grounds where
 on to judge, or give rational answers to every question on the
 common occurrences of life, or any contingent accidents or under
 takings, with the consequences and success of them.
 THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES OF
 HEAVEN, IN NATIVITIES AND HORARY QUESTIONS
 THE First House bears signification of the life of man, and of
 the stature, color, complexion, form, and shape, of him who pro
 pounds a question, or has his nativity cast; and, as all the vicis
 situdes of nature depend upon the period of man's life, so all
 questions are resolved by this house, that relate to sickness, health,
 or long life; and also all accidents by which life may be endan
 gered or impaired,—what part of one's days will be the most
 happy and prosperous; whether any absent friend or relation be
 living or dead; or whether any journey, voyage, or ship at sea
 will be attended with success and safety, or if it will meet with
 any accident fatal to life or destructive to the ship. In short, all
 questions relating to circumstances that affect life are to be
 answered from the first house. In state astrology, and in eclipses,
 great conjunctions, appearances of comets, and other luminous
 and extraordinary phenomena in the heavens, and upon the sun's .
 annual ingress into the equinoctial sign, Aries, the first house
 bears signification of the community at large, or of that state,
 empire, or kingdom, where the figure is erected. It represents
 the head and face, so that if either b, 3, or the 83 be in this
 house, either at the time of a question or at the time of a birth,
 you will observe some blemish in the face or in that member
 governed by the sign that then is upon the cusp of the house; for
 instance, if P be in the ascendant, the mark, mole, or scar, is
 always in the head or face, and, if few degrees of the sign
 ascend, the mark is in the upper part of the head; if the middle
 of the sign be on the cusp, the mole, mark, or scar, is in the
 middle of the face, or near it; if the latter degrees ascend, the
118
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 face is blemished near the chin towards the neck. This rule we
 have found verified in many nativities.
 From the Second House we form judgment upon all questions
 relating to wealth or poverty, prosperity or adversity, and loss or
 gain in any undertaking that may be propounded by the uerent;
 and also concerning moveable goods, money lent or emp oyed in
 speculation. In suits of law or equity, it shows a man’s friends
 or assistants; in private duels, it describes the querent’s second;
 in eclipses, it shows the growing prosperity or adversity of a state
 or people; and, at the sun's entrance into Aries, it expresses the
 strength of the empire where the figure is erected, in its internal
 resources, in its allies, and in all other requisites of war or self
 defence.
 The Third House having signification of brethren, sisters,
 kindred, and neighbors, and of all inland journeys, and of remov
 ing one’s manufacture or business from one place to another, so
 all questions that are founded upon any subjects relative thereto
 are answered from the planets situated in this house.
 From the Fourth House we resolve all questions in any way
 relating to or concerning the father of the querist. Also, all
 inquiries relating to land, houses, or estates, or to towns, cities,
 castles, or entrenchments besieged, of treasures hidden in the
 ground, and all other questions relating to the earth, are answered
 out of this house, which is called the Imum Cali, or angle of the
 earth.
 By the Fifth House we form all our predictions relative to
 children, and to women in the state of pregnancy; also all ques
 tions concerning the present health of absent sons or daughters,
 or the future health of those at home; inquiries relating to the
 real and personal effects of one’s father, or concerning the success
 of messengers, ambassadors, or plenipotentiaries, or respecting
 the ammunition or internal strength of a place besieged, are all
 answered from this house.
 The Sixth’ House resolves all questions that in any respect
 appertain to servants or cattle. Also inquiries concerning the
 state of a sick person, whether curable or not, the nature of the
 disease, and whether of short or long duration; particulars relat
 ing to uncles and aunts, and all kindred on the father’s side; also
 concerning one’s tenants, stewards, or the like, are resolved by
 the disposition of the stars and planets situated in this house.
 By the Seventh House we are enabled to resolve all questions
 in love affairs and marriage, and to describe the person of either
 the man or woman that the querist will be joined with in mar
 riage. It likewise answers all inquiries of the defendant in law
 suits and litigations, or concerning our public enemies in time of
 war. In astrology it represents the artist himself; in physic, the
 physician; in thefts, it enables us to describe the person of the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 119
 robber, by his shape, stature, complexion, and condition of life.
 In an annual ingress, it usually indicates whether peace or war
 may be expected, and, prior to an engagement, betokens which
 side shall prove victorious; it discovers fugitives, outlawed men,
 and offenders escaped from justice.
 From the Eighth House we solve all questions concerning
 death, its time, quality, and nature, with all matters relating to
 legacies, wills, and last testaments ; or who shall inherit the for
 tune and estates of the deceased. Inquiries on the dowry or por
 tion of maids or widows; in duels, concerning the adversary’s
 second; in law-suits, relative to the defendant’s success and
 friends; and questions on public or private enemies, or concern
 ing the substance and security of those we connect ourselves with
 in business, are all answered by the situation of the planets in
 this house.
 By the Ninth House we are enabled to answer all questions on
 the safety and success of voyages and travels into foreign coun
 tries; also inquiries of the clergy concerning church preferments,
 benefices, advowsons, and the like; and all questions relative to
 kindred and relations on the wife’s side, and the same on the
 husband's side, if the wife be the querist, and all matters relating
 to arts and sciences are likewise resolved from this house.
 The Tenth House being the Medium Cwli, or most elevated
 part of the whole heavens, resolves all questions concerning kings,
 princes, dukes, earls, marquises, and all noblemen, judges, prin
 cipal officers of state, commanders in chief, all orders of magis
 trates, and all persons in power and authority. Inquiries after
 preferment, honors, dignity, offices, places, pensions, or sinecures,
 or concerning the estate of kingdoms, empires, provinces, com
 monwealths, counties, cities, or societies of men, are all _resolved
 from the mid-heaven.
 By the Eleventh House we answer all inquiries concerning
 friends and friendship, hope, trust, expectance, or desire; also
 whatever relates to the fidelity or perfidiousness of friends, or to
 the counsellors, advisers, associates, favorites, or servants of
 kings, princes, or men in power.
 The Twelfth House, being the house of tribulation, resolves
 all questions of sorrow, affliction, trouble, anxiety of mind, dis
 tress, imprisonment, persecution, malice, secret enemies, suicide,
 treason, conspiracy, assassination, and everything appertaining
 to the misfortunes and afflictions of mankind.
 The Pleiads, Hyads, with the Northern Team,
 And great Orion’s more refulgent beam;
 To which, around the axle of the sky,
 The Bear revolving points his golden eye,
 Still shines exalted in th' ethereal plain,
 Nor bathes his blazing forehead in the main. Po1=E’s Homzn.
120
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 A TABLE OF THE FIXED STARS NEAR THE ECLIPTIC
 Showing Their Longitude, Latitude, Magnitude, And Nature
 Names of the fixed stars.
 S. end tail of the whale
 Head ofAndromeda
 Girdle of Andromeda
 Left foot of Andromeda
 Longitude.
 17
Latitude. Mag Nature.
 2
 7?
 11 3 25 42 N 2 '11~ 9
 I71
 Q5
 27 4025 59 N 2 9
 11 2927 46 N 2 Q
 Bright star injawof Whale 5 11 4712 37 S 2
 b
 Caput Algol
 Oculus Taurus.
 Aldebaran
 Rigel
 3 23 2722 22 N 3 7? 3(
 11
 5 25 2 36 S 3 9
 n 7 3 5 31 S 1 6‘
 11
 14 1431 11 S 1 71- 8‘
 Former shoulder of Orion 11' 18 11 16 53 S 2 8 §
 She Goat
 Bright Foot of Gemini
 Castor Apollo
 Pollux Hercules
 .Lesser Dog-Star
 Proesepe
 North Assellus
 South Assellus
 Heart of Hydra
 Cor Leonis, Regulous
 Vendemiatrix
 Back ofthe Lyon
 n 19 1322 5] N 1 2 6
 0 6 18 6 48 S 2 Q 9
 Q» 11 2810 2 N 2 $9 1,
 95 20 30 6 38 N 2 3
 93 23 515 57 S 2 § 3
 ‘Q.
 51.
 51-Fl.
 61.
 "11
 "IL
 4 33 1 14 NNeb. 6 (1
 4 38 3 8 NNeb. 3 Q
 5 55 0 4 S‘Neb. 5‘ Q
 24 3022 24 S 1 I; 5;
 26 45 0 26 N 1 3
 7 1016 15 N 3 1? 9 §
 3 28 14 20 N 2 1? 9
 Deneb, or Tail of Lyon 1111 18' 50 12 18 N 1 72 Q 2
 Crater
 1111
 Arcturus
 Virgin’s Spike, Arista
 20 4523 0 S 4 9 §
 A 19 2531 30 N 1 74 6‘
 Q‘ 21 3 1 59 N 1 9 8
 South Balance
 North Balance
 "1.
 12 24 0 25 N 2 7? 9
 "1 16 35 8 35 N 2 ‘IL 3
 Left Hand of Ophinchus "1. 29 33 17 19 N 3 6‘ 3;
 Hi her*ir| forehead Scor. I
 Le t knee of Ophinchus.
 O 23 1 5 N 2 b 2
 I 6 2711 30 N 3 3 1;.
 Cor Scorpio
 I
 Scorpion’s Heart, Antares 4‘.
 6 15 4 0 S 2 3 71,
 7 O 4 27 S 1 § 3
 Right Knee offiphinchus 1‘ 15 13 7 18 N 3 7; 9
 Bright Star of the Vulture V5’ 28 56 29 21 N 2 I; §
 Mouth of Pegasus
 Tail of the Goat
 Fomahaut
 Marchab
 Scheat Pegasi
 m 8 4922 7 N 3 9 §
 : 20 46 2 29 S 3 I;
 36
 3-5
 34
 0 5821 0 S 1 Q §
 20
 26 N 2 3 §
 7 N 2 I;
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 121
 The first column contains the names of the stars ;* the second
 column shows their longitude, or in what degree and minute of
 the twelve signs they are situated; the third column shows the
 degree and minute of their latitude, either north or south, which
 is denoted by the letters N S; the fourth column denotes their
 magnitude; and the fifth shows their natural quality: for example,
 the star in the wing of Pegasus is in 6 degrees 29 minutes of ‘T’,
 has twelve degrees 35 minutes north latitude, is of the 2nd mag
 nitude, and participates in the nature and quality of I and £2 .
 The fixed stars may be found and distinguished in the heavens
 by their conjunctions with the moon, or by observing their order
 from any given point in the heavens; thus, begin with the Plei
 ades, vulgarly called the Seven Stars, and next to them in order,
 but somewhat lower, is a large red star, called Aldebaran, or the
 South Eye of the Bull; next follows Orion’s Belt or Girdle, which
 are three stars in a rank, thus * * *, and are vulgarly called the
 Yard or Ell: next follows a star, called the Great Dog, which is a
 large bright star, somewhat lower than the Girdle of Orion; the
 next is called the head‘ of Gemini, and is about the height of the
 Seven Stars; there are two together, which appear thus **—
 the largest of the two is the star here nominated; the next which
 follows in order is called South Assellus, no great star, but of a
 red color; there are two of them near together and alike, and
 stand or appear thus **,—the lower of the two is the star here
 meant; next in order follows a star called the Head of Hydra, ‘
 lower than Assellus, and of a bright white color; then follows a
 star in the flank of the Lion, very bright, and about the height of
 the Seven Stars; next to that, the Virgin’s Girdle, a bright star,
 and lower than the flank of the Lion; and next follows a curious
 star, called the Virgin’s Spike, very large and bright; it is a star
 of the first magnitude, and appears a little lower, or more south
 erly, than the Virgin’s Girdle; next in order follows the star
 called Arcturus, a very remarkable, bright, red-colored star, about
 the altitude of the Pleiades; then follows the star of the Crown,
 large and bright, and higher than Arcturus; then the right
 Shoulder of Hercules, of a pale white color, near the altitude of
 the Seven Stars; then follows the Head of Ophinchus, of a pale
 white color, and somewhat southward of Hercules; then appears
 a star under the armpit of Sagittary, a bright star, but very low;
 next, the bright star of the Vulture, large, and lower than the
 Seven Stars; the next star is called the Left Shoulder of the
 Water-bearer, about the altitude of Orion’s Girdle, of a pale
 white color; the next in order is the star called Marchab, being
 a star of a bright color, a little lower than the Seven Stars, but
 much bigger; then follows the southern star of the Whale’s Tail,
 ‘A planet may be _lmown_ from a fixed star by the steadiness of its li lit; for a
 fixed star appears to emit a twinkling light, but a planet gives a mild steady ight.
122
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 —this star is of a pale color, and about the height of the sun the
 shortest day; then follows a star called the Girdle of Andromeda,
 a bright glittering star, and much higher than the Pleiades; lastly,
 there is the bright star of the Ram, of a red color, and lower than
 the Seven Stars :—
 “How distant some of the nocturnal sunsl
 So distant, says the sage, ’twere not absurd
 To doubt, if beams set out at Nature's birth
 Are yet arrived at this so foreign world,
 Though nothing half so rapid as their flight.
 An eye of awe and wonder let me roll,
 And roll for ever. Who can satiate sight
 In such a scene, in such an ocean wide
 Of deep astonishment—where depth, height, breadth,
 Are lost in their extremes; and where to count
 The thick‘sown glories in this field of fire,
 Perhaps a seraph’s computation fails?"
 Now, to know whether any of the fixed stars fall into the
 f
 igure erected, I note the sign and degree upon the cusps of the
 houses, and then examine the 2nd column of the foregoing table
 of fixed stars; and, if I find either of them ascending or descend
 ing within five degrees of the signs upon the cusps of the several
 houses, they are then to be entered in the same manner as the
 planets, and their qualities and influences are to be duly weighed,
 according to the nature of whatever planet they correspond with,
 which is shown in the last column of the table.
 The situation of the principal constellations which appear
 above the horizon of London, during a night about the middle of
 December, is so beautifully and accurately described in the fol
 lowing extract from the philosophic poem entitled Eudosia, that
 it cannot but be admired by all lovers of Astronomy—*
 Now let us watch the rising of the stars,
 And look where mid December points the hour
 Most apt for contemplation of the scene
 The fourth from noon is passed, and half the space
 Fled to the fifth; in the meridian view
 Cepheus, sublime; the Dragon's tortile spire,
 Where shines to Britain's great metropolis
 The correspondent star; alike remote
 This from the heavenly, that the earthly pole,
 And perfectly coincident in place,
 The greater Bear, is seen, and Pegasus
 Tends to the south; the beauteous Twins emerge
 From the horizon: Taurus climbs oblique;
 Still higher Aries; the declining Fish
 Verge to the southern wave; and Capricorn
 Glistens, diminished, in the western sky:
 And, near the goal, with languid ray, appears
 '.Those who are possessed of a celestial globe, and know how to use it, will, in a
 few evenings, acquire a knowledge of the principal stars that may be above their
 horizon at that season; but the fore oing directions will be found to answer the same
 purpose, with the assistance either 0 a globe or map of the heavens.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Chiron; but, nigh to the direct of east,
 Orion half is risen; nor prevails
 The horizon, even now to eclipse the pomp
 Of the proud constellation; his right side
 Blazes; the star which lightens on the left
 Is winning now upon our hemisphere:
 And near him the vast Whale conspicuous shines.
 The sixth hour is elapsed,—Orion shows
 His flaming belt; the Twins are wholly risen;
 Soon Procyon appears; and now the Crown
 Of Ariadne rises: Charles, thy star,
 Though never setting to the horizon, stoops;
 And of the Crab the far-distinguished light
 Emerges. Little later than the seventh,
 Sirius appears: the ninth, the Lion shines;
 And in the vertex is Medusa seen.
 Near the tenth hour from noon Hydra appears
 Southward; at mid of night, Orion's form
 Fires the meridian: but the Whale retired;
 The radiant Lyra meets the horizon's bound;
 The Virgin form shows her ascendant wing;
 Capella in the zenith glows. An hour
 Is passed; Arcturus rises: ere the night
 Has marked the second hour from its mid space,
 Shoots in full beam the great NEwToNIAN Star.
 The fourth approaches, when the golden star
 Of Libra gains the eye; the sails retire
 Of the resplendent Ship; her lucid mast
 Shines eminent. The sixth her fettered arm
 Andromeda discovers; and the heart
 Of Scorpio rises; Hydra fills the west;
 Medusa's Head sinks, and Orion bears
 With difficulty his shoulders unsubmerged:
 Monocros succeeds. Why should I name
 The Snake, or Serpentarius, fully risen P
 Or why repeat the wonders which before
 Engaged our eye,—the great and smaller Bear,
 With the Camelopard and varied Lynx?
 Orgaze on thee, O Perseus! thee admire,
 Aquila; or the Lyre, which reascends?
 But, rising eastward, beams the glorious arch
 Of the pure galaxy. And now appears
 Urania's Sextant, and persuades to leave
 The starry theatre, and yield to dawn;
 For now Aurora's fiery courses gild
 The frosty summit of the eastern hills.
 All this delightful scene revolving earth
 Produces, visiting the several stars;
 While undisturbed remain the heavenly spheres.
 123
 f
 EUDoSIA.
CHAPTER XIV
 ©f Qije Šipate Ant Buration (Bf 3Life
 BEFORE any judgment can be given on a nativity, it is requisite
 to be known, whether the native is of a long or short life: I have
 therefore selected the following general rules:—
 Signs Of Death In Infancy
 1. If the birth be precisely on a new or full moon, and the
 moon in her nodes.
 2. If the moon be in conjunction of Saturn and Mars, in the
 6th, 8th, or 12th house of the figure.
 3. If the moon be in quartile or opposition of Saturn or Mars
 in the 4th house.
 4. If the moon be besieged by the sun and Mars.
 5. If an eclipse impede the light of time in the hour of birth.
 6. If all the planets be subterranean, and neither the sun nor
 moon essentially fortified.
 7. If the two malefics are conjoined in the ascendant.
 8. If an infortune in the ascendant vitiate the degrees thereof,
 or by quartile or opposition.
 These configurations, by long and invariable experience, are
 found to destroy life in infancy, except the benefic rays of
 Jupiter or Venus interpose, and, by joining in the aspects, modify
 and remit their malignant effect.
 Signs Of Short Life
 If the degree ascending Sol or Luna be extremely afflicted, or
 either of them, it is an argument of short life, and therefore it
 will be in vain to form long directions for such a nativity. These
 points are said to be afflicted or unfortunate, when either the
 conjunction, quartile, or opposition of the infortunes vitiate their
 places, or when many violent fixed stars of the nature of b or 3
 ascend with the degree ascending, or with the luminaries.
 The @ besieged between b and 3 argues short life.
 Signs Of Long Life
 If the Q in a birth by day, or the ( in a birth by night, be
 strong, free from affliction, and assisted by the fortunes, it shows
 long life.
 124
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 125
 Signs Of A Violent Death
 First, consider the Q and (, secondly b and 3, and their
 signs, which are called violent, viz. ', m, V3, 4:, =, wherein b
 hath more signification unto death, 3 to the kind thereof: next
 regard the fixed stars of the nature of b and 3, the principal
 whereof are Caput Algol in 23, 27 8, Oculus 8 in 5, 43 II,
 Hercules 20, 30' co, Right Shoulder of Orion in 25, 59' II,
 Cor m in 6, 15 t , Chaelae in II, 15 m.
Both the luminaries with violent fixed stars, and within the
 defiance of five degrees, threaten a violent death: the ( with
 Cor ml, and the G) with Oculus 8, without doubt declares a
 violent death.
 Secondly, both the luminaries unfortunated by 2 and 3, so
 that one of the lights and one of the infortunes be in a violent
 sign, or with a violent fixed star, portend a violent death.
 If both the luminaries be afflicted only by one of the infor
 tunes, the other infortune being impedited or posited in a violent
 sign, it threatens violent death.
 The 6 of b and 3 in an angle, especially in the mid-heaven
 in a violent sign, infesting only one of the lights, threatens a
 violent death.
 The d, II, & , or mutual aspect of the infortunes, in other
 signs as well as in the violent, but in angles, portend a violent
 death.
 Amalevolent planet in the eighth, and both the lights or either
 of them afflicted in a violent sign, portends violent death.
 The ( in the 7th, in signs where fixed stars of a violent
 nature are placed, viz. 8, II, Co, t , and in II or 8 of G), or an
 evil planet posited in the eighth: these are arguments of a violent
 death.
 But, notwithstanding all the precedent rules are to be admitted,
 yet, if one of the fortunes be in the eighth house, all fear of a
 sudden or violent death is taken away.
 The Manner Or Kind Of A Violent Death
 Saturn properly, according to his own nature, denotes death
 by drowning, shipwreck, ruin of old buildings, and poison.
 Mars, by fire, iron, thunder or lightning, shot of guns, stroke
 of horses: both of them by some fall from on high or strangling.
 Nature Of The Signs. In This Manner Of Judgment
 Fiery signs, P, Q, t , by fire, thunder, lightning, gun-shot.
 Airy signs, II, =, :, fall from on high, beheading, strangling,
 and hanging.
126
 or violence.
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Watery signs, 25, m, 9é, drowning.
 Earthly signs, 8, Ty, V5, by rain, casualty, or falls.
 Human signs, II, =, :, denote death by a man, as by arms
 Nature Of The Houses
 Tenth house, death by command of the magistrate.
 Twelfth, by horses or great cattle, or privy murders.
 Sixth, by servants, slaves, or neighbors.
 Where two, three, or more testimonies concur, be more con
 fident, as if 3, author of death, be in a fiery sign, the death will
 be by fire, sword, &c.
But, for the more perfect judging of the quality, and by what
 means a violent death shall come, I have collected out of eminent
 authors, together with my own judgment, such aphorisms as they
 and myself have found true by experience.
 RULES OF SATURN AND MARS
 Saturn in 9é and the ( in my or b in a watery sign, and the
 ( in 8 to him, shows the native will die by water, viz. be
 drowned, or else die by excess of drinking.
 Saturn in m, in d with 3, and the ( in my, making applica
 tion to them, declare the native will be suffocated or drowned.
 Saturn in the watery triplicity, and the Q conjoined with him,
 either by 6, D, or 8, are great arguments of drowning, more
 especially in the eighth.
 Saturn in the seventh, in 8 to the G) or (, shows death by
 imprisonment, sluttishness, poison, poverty, fear, torments in a
 dungeon, or by some violent fall, or in exile, &c.
 Saturn in the tenth house, in & to the light of time, declares
 death by the fall of houses, but, if a watery sign be on the fourth,
 by water.
 Saturn and 6 in the twelfth imports death or danger by great
 beasts.
 Leo, or 1 on the cusp of the twelfth, and a planet unfortu
 nate therein, signify the native will receive a fall from a horse,
 and so die.
 Saturn in t, in the eighth, imports the same.
 Saturn and 3, in the seventh, in a common sign, and the ( in
 & to them, declares death by a sudden fall.
 Saturn in the seventh, with 2, and in evil aspect to 3,
 denotes hanging.
 But observe, a benevolent planet mitigates these judgments.
 Mars in the seventh, in P, Su, or 1, imports burning alive.
 Mars in the seventh in feral signs, such as Su and the last past
 of t, declares death by ruins, or fall of timber or houses, or from
 falls by beasts or horses.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 127
 Mars in fiery signs in II to 2 in co, m, or 9é, denotes death
 by scalding or hot water.
 In each of these significations, you must have one or both of
 the luminaries in evil configuration with him, or otherwise the
 judgment is but of small import.
 If the lord of death be joined by body to the significator of
 life, or the Q joined to the ( in Su, or t, with 3 aspecting
 them; or the Q or ( joined with a fixed star of the nature of 3,
 the native will be in danger of death by fire; if b, instead of 3,
 behold the luminaries, the native will be suffocated with smoke.
 All these I have found verified in many nativities; but, when
 £of these testimonies occur, the native will die a natural
 eath.
THE FORTUNE OF WEALTH
 IF the significators of substance—namely, the luminaries and
 their dispositers—be placed in angles, or the greater part of them,
 and be also well placed, it is an argument the native shall attain
 a very great estate, have plenty of all things, and be necessitated
 in nothing; and the more testimonies you find of this nature, the
 more judgment must be given of the greatness or weakness of the
 estate of the native.
 If moderately fortified, the native shall not exceed or want,
 or if with Regulus, or Spica m), or the fortunes in good houses
 of heaven.
 The ( fortunate in the ascendant gives wealth and estimation
 all the life long.
 The Q and ( in A, @ then in his exaltation, neither of them
 afflicted by 2 or 3, give ample testimonies of a large fortune.
 The same if both the luminaries are in A to each other from
 masculine signs, and both in A to the 69 likewise.
 Jupiter in the 2nd, and the ( in the Ist, or 24 in the ascend
 ant, and the ( in the 2nd, promises wealth.
 The €9 conjoined with 24 predicts an increase of wealth.
 Saturn in a diurnal geniture in the 8th, in good aspect with
 either of the fortunes, gives an increase of'substance by the death
 of relatives or friends.
 If the €9 is in the 8th, and fortunate, wealth comes by de
 ceased persons.
 If b is well posited, and essentially strong, and aspect the
 ascendant with a mundane A, the native becomes rich by lands,
 orchards, fields, and pastures.
 If b is posited fortunately in the 4th house, and is direct
 swift in motion, and in good aspect with the fortunes, it fore
 shadows the native shall acquire an ample fortune by managing
 quarries and mines where metals, coals, stones, or minerals are to
128
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 be obtained; the more potent he is, the more gain may be
 expected, and more evidently the effects will appear.
 Jupiter in the 4th in => promiseth the native much wealth out
 of the bowels of the earth, by tin especially, and argues a good
 inheritance or personal estate from the father; without doubt, in
 this judgment, b is most to be preferred when he happens to be
 in the 4th house in 4:, and 24 shall then be in =.
 Mars in the 4th house in Su, and the Q in P, is absolutely
 very promising for the native to deal in iron mines, silver mines,
 or gold mines.
 The time when the native may expect an increase of wealth
 or the goods of fortune is best discovered by the significators and
 €9, directed to benefic promittors, unto the d, k, or A of 24 or
 9 ; yet, if any desire to know in a general way, let him consider
 in what quarter of heaven he finds any of the aforesaid signifi
 cators of riches, as especially him that is most fortified; for the
 significators oriental of the Q import quickness, and the time
 sooner; but occidental of the Q, nearer old age: retrograde plan
 ets signify the same thing,-viz. they retard; the planets direct
 and swift in motion hasten the time.
 On the contrary, all the significators of substance weak declare
 poverty.
 The ( in d with b, in an angle or succedent, though the
 native were ever so rich, yet shall he be reduced to poverty.
 The D or 8 of b and the ( destroys the substance.
 Generally, they who have the moon in square to Jupiter, or in
 conjunction with Mars, are found to acquire much wealth, but are
 particularly liable to be cheated and defrauded, and at some
 period of their lives become great losers.
 Also Jupiter or Venus, with the sun, causes great waste of
 money, and it is rarely that the native can save any property.
 Jupiter is much afflicted under the sunbeams.- The moon in conjunction, parallel, or good aspect, to Jupiter,
 is a sign of riches. The square gives money, but causes great
 profusion and waste thereof.
 The part of fortune with Jupiter is always a token that the
 native is born to great wealth.
 THE FORTUNE OF RANK
 h THEmost assured testimonies of rank and worldly honors are
 these :--
The luminaries angular and in cardinal signs, attended by a
 satellitium of the five erratics, are famous positions; and it is
 generally found that when more than two or three planets are
 within 60 degrees of the sun, on either side of him, the native is
 born to eminent dignities, and will have a posthumous reputation.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 129
 All the planets above the earth in the day-time is an authenti
 cated and evident symbol of extensive fame, great honor, power,
 and eminence; the same by night, if all the planets be subter
 ranean, and more especially if near the G).
 Acelebrated author observes that he who has the planets thus
 placed shall, like a comet, outshine all his cotemporaries.
 The Q or (, with an eminent fixed star of the first magni
 tude, is a token of eminent dignity and great renown.
 b and 3, or '#' and b in conjunction, in good aspect to 24,
 raises the native to some remarkable command; and, if these two
 evil stars are angular, and ill placed, the native will be noted for
 infamy.
Four or more planets in conjunction, in any sign, cause at dif
 ferent times of life the most powerful changes.
 The Q or ( inthe mid-heaven, or ascendant, give great honor
 and dignity, totally unexpected.
 # in Tasimi, or even within 30 degrees of the Q, gives lit
 erary eminence, and yet mixed with vexation from obscure per
 sons, critics, &c. Yet in the end the native triumphs.
 The Q in square to 24, from fixed signs, gives wealth and
 honor in youth, but towards the end of life gives poverty and
 disgrace.
 Several planets in the ascendant in a fixed or moveable sign
 cause great preferment, but attended with trouble.
 If 24 be squared by b, #, or 3, from fixed signs, the native
 is always in some kind of trouble and constraint, and cannot
 escape imprisonment at several periods of his life.
 2 or 3, in the mid-heaven, or IIth house, gives success in
 the middle age, but afterwards a bankruptcy and imprisonment
 of a temporary duration.
 The ( squared by 3 from common signs, and b in the very
 middle of the 8th house, in sesquiquadrate to the ascendant, is a
 token of perpetual poverty and an ill name.
 An opposition of b or 3, or a square of these two evil stars,
 causes a climax of troubles and rapid succession of evils; but
 gives public notice at several periods of life.
 24 and 9 in conjunction, in a fixed sign, is a symbol of emi
 nence amongst scientific men; and the native is generally a
 favorite with the fair sex, and makes great conquests amongst
 them, but chiefly amongst those females who are previously
 engaged.
 9 and #, in conjunction, give a literary fame or renown in
 the arts; as also does 2 in-a-, near the mid-heaven. And
 24 and #, in conjunction, generally give a posthumous repu
 tation for scientific discoveries.
 Generally, they who have the luminaries in sextile, trine, con
 junction, or mundane parallel to 24, go through life with ease,
130
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 and, if the nativity be destitute of quartiles or oppositions, the
 native will lead a life of great comfort and quietness: almost
 every undertaking will eventually produce good fortune, and they
 will experience good even from the appearance of evil; while, on
 the contrary, those whose genitures have many squares or oppo
 site aspects are evidently born to trouble, “even as the sparks fly
 upwards.”
 OF MARRIAGE
 IN this place we should consider with close attention the sig
 nificators of marriage,-namely, the ( and 2 : if these planets
 be in barren signs, viz. II, Su, m2, and also in cadent houses, viz.
 6th, 9th, 12th, or even in the 8th, these testimonies import either
 a single life or an averseness to marriage.
 If the significators, but especially the ( and 2, are not so
 constituted, see, then, if either of them is weak or little fortified,
 conjoined to b, he being very potent, 9 herself alone not having
 the support of any planet by a good aspect; and, if you find the
 ( posited in a barren sign, or cadent house, or extremely
 afflicted: these are arguments of no marriage, nor any desire
 thereto. But in this judgment you must always understand that
 b ought to be very strong; for, if 2 and the @ be more fortified
 than b, then the preceding judgment holds not true.
 So when in a nativity you find b more elevated than either
 the ( or 2, and no planet assisting either of them, you may
 judge the native's inclination for a single life.
 You must remember that the other significators of marriage
 are also to be examined, viz. whether they be in barren signs or
 cadent houses, or much afflicted, and in 6 with b , and he well
 fortified; for, if the testimonies of these significators agree with
 the affliction of the ( and 2, without doubt, the native will then
 never marry.
 The @ in m, in D of b, he in Su or 8, ( combust of the G),
 and in D or & to b, if she is in V3, 4:, or =, the native never
 marries.
 The D or 8 of 9 and b helps much to a single life; the (
 as well as 9 being in a barren sign, and cadent house, and some
 of the other significators either unhappily placed in bad houses
 or unfruitful signs.
 The Testimonies Of Marriage Are These:
 The sign of the 7th, a prolific sign.
 A benevolent planet in the 7th.
 The D and 9 in fruitful signs, and in the 1st, 5th, Ioth or
 IIth houses.
 To know whether the native will obtain his wife with ease, or
 much difficulty, you must consider all the qualities of the signifi
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 131
 cators of marriage, wherein if you find the greater part of them
 fortunate planets, or well fortified, he shall then easily obtain his
 wife; if they be weak, and are signified by the infortunes, then not
 without labor and difficulty; but, if they be all imbecile and ill
 affected, then shall he make love unto many, and be as oft
 deluded, and in conclusion have much difficulty in procuring a
 wife: in that nativity where 9 is not in some good aspect with
 3, the party shall suffer many inconveniences in his loves or
 affections.
 Again, the nature of the significators is to be considered; for
 the benevolent planets do promise happy success: the greater
 happiness, the stronger they are: the malevolent usually much
 labor, although they are very powerful. I have ever observed,
 that when b and 3 are in 8 out of the 1st and 7th houses, or
 when b alone hath been near the cusp of the 7th; or when Q
 hath been in Su or m, and not in aspect of 3, or when 3 hath
 been in 8, my or V3, in the 7th, whether in aspect to 9 or not, the
 native had extraordinary difficulty to procure a wife, and married
 at last upon a sudden, but yet prone to women.
 The Time Of Marriage
 If all the significators of marriage, or the greater part, and
 amongst these the (, is oriental of the Q, and in oriental quar
 ters of heaven, viz. Ioth, IIth, 12th, 4th, 5th, and 6th houses, then
 the native shall marry in youth, or after his more mature years
 shall espouse a young woman.
If the significators be occidental of the Q, and in occidental
 quarters of heaven, viz. 9th, 8th, 7th, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, he shall
 either then very late contract matrimony, or else in his youth
 marry a widow, or one very aged.
 Besides this, observe the motion of the significators, for, if
 they be direct and swift in motion, they declare marriage in
 youth; but, if they be retrograde, slow in motion, or stationary,
 they prolong the time.
 The more special time is best adjudged from the directions of
 the mid-heaven to the d, k, D, or A of 2, if she was strong in
 the radix, or to the same aspects with ( ; or, by direction of Q,
 direct and converse to the body, k, D, or A of ( or 9 ; or by
 direction of ( to any of the premised aspects of the Q or 3 : if
 the @ be directed to a D or & of the G) or 3, see if it does not
 #in aspect to a fortune, for, if not, the direction will be of no
 Orce.
 Testimonies Of The Number Of Wives
 If all the significators of marriage be in watery signs, which
 we usually term fruitful, for the most part they note many wives,
 or more than one; the contrary, if posited in II, Su, or m).
132
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 The ( conjoined to one planet only, whether by platic or
 partile aspect, denotes only one wife: where observe, when she is
 thus joined to only one planet, and is stronger than the planet
 with whom she is in aspect, the man outlives his wife; but, if the
 planet to whom the @ is joined is more powerful than the (, the
 husband dies before the wife.
 If the @ is bodily joined to no planet, consider how many
 planets, and they direct and free from combustion, and not in
 their detriment or fall, do behold her with a partile aspect, but so
 as ( apply to them, and not they to her (the Q here is not con
 siderable); from thence you may conjecture of the number of
 wives; you must consider the quality of the signs wherein the
 planets are that aspect the (, for fruitful signs double the
 number.
s
 The most approved method I have hitherto found by expe
 rience is this: consider how many planets there are in the sign
 the @ is in, she applying to them, and not separated; so many
 wives the native may expect: if no such bodily presence be,
 observe how many planets, having dignities in the sign she is in,
 do behold her with a partile aspect; so many wives may be hoped
 for, &c.
 Observe this general rule about wives: if the significators be
 weak, they argue sweethearts and amours, or such as he may woo
 for wives, rather than marriage itself: again, if the ( apply to a
 planet in a common sign, it argues two wives: if she be in a
 fruitful sign, and apply to a planet in a fruitful or bicorporal sign,
 it argues three wives.
 To Know From Whence Or What Quarter The Native Shall
 Have His Wife, Observe The Following Rules
 The significators of marriage in the 9th or 3rd house, or else
 peregrine, having no essential dignities, portend the native shall
 marry a stranger, and not one born in the same county or country
 he himself was born in.
 Signs Of A Good Wife
 The happy aspect of 24 to 9 or (, with reception, in dignities
 equivalent, shows a wealthy wife, and marriage with a person of
 great birth.
 9 or 24 in the 8th argues a rich wife, and born to have an
 inheritance very ample.
 Royal fixed stars of first magnitude, near the cusp of the 7th,
 if the cusp thereof be also fortunate, these testimonies argue a
 rich and good-dispositioned wife.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 133
 Signs Of Ill Fortune By A Wife
 Malignant planets in the 7th, very strong, denotes riches with
 a wife, but not attainable without some scandal or trouble.
 The infortunes much debilitated in the 7th denote wives, or a
 wife very poor, of an abject and sordid condition and birth.
 It is not good for the native that either 2 or 3 be in the 7th,
 unless the fortunes aspect them, and be not cadent from the
 house; for b causes sorrow and travel in the matter of marriage,
 and 3 shows their death and destruction before the native.
 Venus in D or 8 of ( signifies prejudice by marriage.
 Venus in the 2nd, in an evil aspect of the malevolent planets,
 declares detriment by reason of the wife.
 The ( afflicted denies any great felicity in marriage.
 Concord And Disagreement
 To know the mutual love and concord between man and wife,
 you must consider the planet or planets showing the number of
 wives, whether they be fortunes, and behold the ( with a
 friendly aspect; if so, they do declare much love, sweet society,
 and that perpetual goodwill shall continually be between them.
 But, if they be malevolent by nature, and have a D or & to 4,
 they will fall out upon every slight occasion, nor will there be
 ever any perfect unity between them.
 If a benevolent planet aspect the ( with an evil aspect, the
 native and his wife shall then agree but moderately, yet in more
 things they will accord.
 If a malevolent planet have a friendly aspect to the (, they
 will agree but indifferently, and will be subject to disagree in most
 things; for, as the evil aspect of the fortunes hurts but little, so
 the benevolent aspect of the infortunes tends to ill.
 The most assured means to know the agreement or disagree
 ment of man and wife is, by comparing their genitures together,
 if they can be procured; wherein, if you find the Q, in the wife's
 geniture, to be the sign and degree the ( was in, in the man's, or
 if the ( in the wife's is the place of the Q in the man's, it is a
 very good sign of unity and concord.
 Or, if the significators of marriage are in k or A, they show
 unity and affection: and so contrary aspects, contrary affections.
 9 with b beholding 3, there will arise jealousies between
 the native and his wife.
 9 in the 12th designs but ill marriage; if 2( be also in the
 12th, the wife brings but little fortune.
 9, when she is in ill aspect with the ( or the infortunes,
 shows dissension between man and wife by reason of lascivious
 ness, &c.
134
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 9, in a moveable sign, argues an inconstant man in affection,
 nor will he be content with one woman, especially if the ( or she
 be in 25 or V3: 2, in a common sign, argues delight in marriage.
 If the aspects between the Q and ( be evil, and an infortune
 have a D or & to one or both, they perpetually disagree. The
 ( decreasing in light, and in d of 3 in a moveable sign, the
 native's wife never truly loved him, but some other man.
 In A Female Nativity, The Testimonies Of Marriage Are These:
 If the significator in a woman's nativity be fruitful, strong in
 fortunate houses, and in good aspect of the fortunes, they then
 promise marriage: but, if the significators be barren, placed in
 unfortunate houses, weak and afflicted of the malevolents, they
 argue no marriage: 9 being occidental in the 7th house, and
 b in the 4th, in a woman's geniture, argue the woman hath no
 great desire to marry.
 If the Q and ( be in masculine signs, or in the same mascu
 line quarter of heaven, or in one and the same sign, it being
 masculine, the woman will be a virago, will not care for men, and,
 if she chance to marry, will prove a refractory wife.
 The special time of marriage is discerned by direction of the
 mid-heaven or Q ; the general time by the Q : for, if he be in
 oriental quadrants, he denotes marriage in youth either to a young
 or old man, or after their full age with a young man: if the Q be
 in occidental quarter, he notes it will be long before she marries,
 and then with an old man.
 The number of husbands is taken from the position of the
 G), who, in a sign of one form, or in aspect with one oriental
 planet, notes she will marry but one. The Q in a sign of many
 forms, or in aspect to many oriental planets, shows she will marry
 more than once.
 The agreement is discerned from the significators of marriage
 being in mutual reception, or in k or A to one another, or in
 good aspect with the fortunes, they then show unity. Contrary
 aspects, and the significators in the 12th, 6th, or 8th, portend no
 concord.
 OF CHILDREN
 Aphorisms For Determining Issue
 THE ( and # in the 5th, and signs wherein they are, free
 from all manner of impediment, denotes many children.
 Luna in the 5th promises children, but if b be therein in the
 same house, they will prove ill-conditioned.
 If the sign of the 5th and sign ascending be prolific, many
 children are promised.
Jupiter in A to (, in humane or moist signs, gives children.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 135
 Moon and 9 with 74 in an angle, or in aspect from angles,
 signifies many children.
 Venus and (I in the fifth house, especially in a fruitful sign,
 gives much issue, and declares the children to prove well.
 All the planets in fruitful signs give abundance of children.
 Venus in the Ist or 7th, in <5 or 8 to *2 , or if *2 be in 8 , and
 9 in V3, it argues barrenness to men, and abortion to women; or
 that what is produced shall die ere it has seen the light.
 Saturn in the 5th, and the (D in E1 to U, denies issue.
 Sol with *2 and Q in the 11th or 5th, aspecting the (I , show
 the native will die without having children, or, if any be born,
 they die suddenly.
 Aphorisms Showing The Death Of Issue
 Saturn and 6 in the 5th and 11th, are arguments the chil
 dren of the native shall not live long.
 Sol having dominion in the 5th, joined to an infortune, leaves
 not one child alive.
 ’
 Sol, *2, and Q in d in the mid-heaven, in E1 or 8 of (I,
 kills the children.
 Mars in 8 to 74, either kills the children, or denotes an ill
 death to them; so also doth 74 when in 8 to *2 , he then kills the
 greater part of them.
 Mercury in the ascendant, and *2 in the west, declares the
 children will live but a short time.
 ON THE QUALITY OF THE PROFESSION
 THE lord of the profession is taken two ways, from the 0,
 and the sign which hath dominion of the mid-heaven. Therefore,
 we ought to observe the star that maketh oriental appearance
 next to the 0; and that which agrees with the medium-coeli,
 either therein or in familiarity thereto, chiefly when it respects
 the application of the (K : and, if one and the same star hath
 power in both respects, we take that alone, for what is inquired
 after; and, if it is not found in both respects, but only in one of
 the two, that alone shall be taken‘; but, if one next appear before
 the (D, and another be in the mid-heaven, and hath familiarity
 with the (I , both shall be taken; but he shall be preferred who is
 the most strong unto the dominion.
 If none be found making application, nor in the mid-heaven,
 he that hath dominion of the medium-coeli we take as the proper
 significator of the office, exercise, or study to which the native
 will be agreeable to apply himself: at least, when we know the
 business is commodious to the situation in life; because some are
 born for idleness from the constitution of their stars: and the
 things which concern the lord of the action are thus investigated.
136
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 The kind of profession will be made known by the properties
 of the three stars,—that is, when they have dominion of the pro
 fession, viz. 3, 2, and #, and the signs in which they are:
 for # makes scribes, managers of business, calculators, masters,
 dealers, exchangers, diviners, astrologers, and those who live by
 learning and interpretation, and the stipends and gifts of others:
 and, if b give testimony to him, they will be stewards to others,
 or interpreters of dreams, or conversant in churches for the sake
 of divination and enthusiasm; if 24 give testimony, they will be
 limners, orators, sophisters, conversant with great personages.
 If 9 have dominion of the profession, she will make those
 conversant with the scent of flowers, ungents, and wines, colors,
 tinctures, spices; as ungent-makers, plaiters of garlands, vintners,
 apothecaries, weavers, sellers of spices, limners, dyers, sellers of
 garments: and, if b give testimony to her, she will make men
 dealers in things which relate to pleasure and adorning, sorcerers,
 poisoners, deceivers, and those that deal in such like: but, if 24
 give testimony to her, they will be champions, bearers of armory,
 promoted to honor by favor of the women.
 But 8 ruling the profession, configurated with Q, he will
 make those who work at the fire, as cooks, founders, burners,
 breakers, workers about mettles: but being with the Q, he makes
 shipwrights, carpenters, husbandmen, stone-cutters, cutters of
 wood, under workmen. If b give testimony to him, he makes
 seamen, emptiers of vaults, feeders of beasts, cooks, butchers.
 If 24 give testimony, he will make soldiers, servants, tax-gath
 erers, innkeepers, custom-gatherers, sacrificers.
 Again, two being found rulers of the profession together, if
 they be 8 and 2, they make musicians, causers of melody, and
 they that are busied about instruments, songs, and poetry, and
 chiefly when they change places: for then they make stage-play
 ers, actors, buyers of men, instrument-makers, dancers, players
 on stringed instruments, caperers, alias tumblers, workers in wax,
 painters: and, if b give testimony to them, he will make with
 those mentioned those that deal in women's ornaments: and,
 if 2( give testimony, they will be lawyers, employed in the com
 monwealth, teachers of children, rulers of the commons.
 If 3 and # together be lords of the magistery, they will be
 makers of statues, of armor, engravers of holy things, formers
 of animals, wrestlers (Cardan says physicians), surgeons,
 accusers, adulterers, evil-doers, forgers of writings: and, if b
 give testimony to them, they will be homicides, stealers of clothes,
 rapacious thieves, stealers of cattle, conjurers.
 , If 3 and 2 together take the lordship, they will be dyers,
 ointment-makers, workers in tin and lead, gold and silver, dancers
 in armor, apothecaries, husbandmen, physicians curing by medi
 cines: and, if b give testimony, they will take care of sacred
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 137
 animals, be sextons, lamenters and pipers at funerals, enthusiasts,
 conversant in mysteries, lamentations, and blood: and, if 24 give
 testimony, he will make men sacrificers, augurs, bearers of holy
 things, rulers of women, interpreters, and they who live by such
 things.
 Moreover, the quality of the signs in which the lords of the
 profession are, causes the variety of the profession; for they of
 the human shape conduce to all those sciences and exercises which
 are for the use of man; but four-footed signs conduce to metallic
 arts, negotiations, buildings, smiths' and carpenters' art; tropical
 and equinoctial signs, to interpretations, commutations, measur
 ing, husbandry, and priesthood; earthy and watery signs, to arts
 conversant about water, and by water, herbs, and ship-makers.
 Again, the ( properly possessing the place of profession, and
 having a course with & from the d with Q, in 8, V3, and 25,
 will make diviners, sacrificers, diviners by basin; in 4 and 96 she
 makes mourners, and those moved by devils: in my and m. magi
 cians, astrologers, speakers of oracles, having foreknowledge;
 in =, P, and Su, she makes enthusiasts, interpreters of dreams,
 and conjurers.
 Therefore, the kinds of profession are distinguished by these;
 but the greatness thereof is manifested from the strength of the
 ruling stars: for, being oriental or angular, they make the pro
 fession powerful; but occidental or declining from angles, makes
 them subordinate.
 If the benefics be superior, they will be great, gainful, firm,
 glorious, and joyful. If the malefics be superior to the lords of
 the profession, they will be mean, inglorious, unprofitable, and
 uncertain.
Saturn, therefore, bringeth opposition by cold, and mixture of
 colors (slowness and lukewarmness, says Cardan), but 3 through
 boldness and divulgation; and both are opposite to the perfection
 of the profession: but the general time of increase or diminution
 of arts is judged from the disposition of the stars, which causes
 the effect which they have in the respect of the oriental and occi
 dental angles.
OF TRAVELLING
 THE things which concern travelling we consider from the
 position of the luminaries to the angles; of both, but chiefly of
 the ( : for the being occident,” and declining from angles, causeth
 travelling and change of places. And sometimes 3 himself, occi
 dental or declining from the place of the mid-heaven, causeth the
 same, when in an opposite or quartile aspect to the luminaries.
 If the 69 also falleth in signs which cause travelling, the whole
 life, conversation, and actions, will be spent in a foreign country.
 * In the seventh house.
138
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Moreover, when the benefics behold the mentioned places,” or
 succeed, the travelling life will be famous and profitable, and the
 returns will be quick, and without hindrance. But, if the malefics
 behold or succeed, the travelling will be hurtful and dangerous,
 and the return difficult; but we ought everywhere to assume the
 temperament and observe the stronger of the made configurations.
 Moreover, if the signs which cause travelling be of one form,
 either in respect to themselves, or the stars which have the lord
 ships over them, travelling will be rare, and not without some
 leisure; but, if they be double-bodied, or of two forms, they will
 be continual, and in many times.
 Jupiter and 9 being significators of travelling, the travelling
 will not only be without danger, but also pleasant; for by the
 governors of those countries, and concourse of friends, he is sent
 away with pleasure, the constitution of the air and the plenty of
 necessaries favoring.
 If # bejoined to them, there will be an addition of gain, gifts,
 and honors.
 But b and 3 possessing the lights, especially if they are
 opposed mutually to them, they will cause great dangers and
 unprofitable travelling. But, being in moist signs, they will
 produce dangers by shipwrecks, or by desert and inaccessible
 places. In fixed, by precipices and contrary winds. In tropical
 and equinoctial, by want of necessaries, and a sickly constitution
 of the air. In human-shaped, by robbers, ambushes, and thefts.
 In earthly, by the increase of wild beasts or earthquakes. But
 if 8 concur, the danger will occur through accusations, and
 creeping things and casters of venom.
 Some are of opinion, that what is said of the lights must also
 be understood of 3 and the €9. But, though they are allowed
 to cause travelling, and show the success of such travelling, yet
 the luminaries alone and only do point out the quarter towards
 which the peregrination shall be.
 The signs said to cause travelling are the signs in which the
 aforesaid significators of travelling are found.
 OF PRIMARY DIRECTIONS
 PRIMARY directions are arithmetical calculations of the time
 of events, caused by the significator forming aspects with the
 places of certain stars, and are of two kinds, zodiacal and mun
 dane.
 Zodiacal directions are founded upon the familiarities of the
 stars among each other in the zodiac, subsequent to the time of
 the nativity, and consist in calculating the distance of the place of
 a significator in a nativity from the place he must arrive at before
 * That is, place of the Sun, Moon, Mars, and Part of Fortune.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 139
 he can form the aspect, which distance is called the arc of direc
 hon.
 It must here be observed that, in directions, the place of a
 planet in a nativity is called the planet itself, as they are found to
 impress their natures on the places where they are found at the
 moment of birth, as strongly as if they were continually present
 in that spot, although they may be no longer there, when the
 significator arrives: thus, if we direct the (D to a 6 of M, We
 mean to the radical situation of 74, which always possesses his
 efficacy.
 Mundane directions are different from the above, for they are‘
 wholly independent of the zodiac, as much as if such a circle had
 never existed, and only operate in respect of the world: for
 instance, the (D in 1 , being on the cusp of the nth house, would
 be in mundane sextile to V5, on the cusp of the ascendant; where
 as, in respect to the zodiac, he would have no aspect to that point
 at all. Thus, the mundane aspects are measured by the arcs and
 semi-arcs of the planets, and have nothing to do with calculations
 in the zodiac.
 The mundane aspects are undoubtedly most wonderfully
 strong and powerful, particularly in squares and trines, and will
 amply repay the young student for learning the theory thereof.
 It was formerly the custom to calculate these directions by
 f
 igures, a tediousand incorrect arithmetical process; which is
 now, in a great measure, superseded by the discovery of the
 zodiacal planisphere, an instrument not to be surpassed in any
 way, even by the best trigonometrical calculations, and by which
 the labor of a month, according to the old system, can be per
 formed in the space of a day, or sometimes in a few hours, with
 surprising exactness. It also shows at one view the various
 aspects, declinations, arcs, &c.
 The measure of time now used in equating the arcs of direc
 tion is that invented by Valentine Naybad, giving to every degree
 of the are one year and five days.
CHAPTER XV
 THE SIGNIFICATION OF FIXED STARS IN NATIVITIES
 Ten thousand suns appear,
 Of elder beam; which ask no leave to shine
 Of our terrestrial star, nor borrow light
 From the proud regent of our scanty day.
 Fields of radiance, whose unfading light
 Has travelled the profound six thousand years,
 Nor yet arrived in sight of mortal things.
 THE significator of substance, or cusp of the 2nd, 69, or with
 Regulus or with Arista, denotes riches, wealth, and honor.
 The significators of substance, or 69, in d with Aldebaran or
 Caput Algol, show loss of estate and poverty. The Q or g with
 the Pleiades, or Proesepe, Antares, or Deneb, the native will suffer
 some hurt or defect in his eyes; and it is incurable if that light
 be angular. The ( in 6 with Cingula Orionis, and combust,
 shows blindness of one eye at least.
 The significators of honor, in 6, or within 5° of d forward
 or backward, with Aldebaran, or with Hercules, Regulus, Arista,
 Lanx Boreales, or Antares, show great honor and preferment.
 The Q or ( in 6 with the Pleiades or the Hyades, shows mili
 tary preferment; the same if those stars culminate. Caput Algol
 culminating gives the native authority over others. Aldebaran
 or Antares in d of Q or (, in the ascendant or Ioth, give the
 native honor, but with many difficulties and casualties. Arista
 ascending or culminating gives the native religious preferment.
 Fomahaut and Rigel, in the ascendant, gives an immortal name.
 Regulus or Arcturus in d of Q, (, or 24, in the Ioth, give ample
 fortunes and very great preferment. Syrius or Procyon, in d
 £Q in the ascendant, or Ioth, gives royal preferment and
 aVOr.
 One or both of the luminaries in 6 with Caput Algol, or with
 Aldebaran, Hercules, or Antares, presage a violent death. Q in
 d with Caput Algol in the 8th, in D or & to 3, the native will
 be in danger of losing his head; if the light culminates, he may
 die by some wound. ( with Hercules or Arcturus, in the ascend
 ant, 7th, or Ioth, in d with 3, the native will be in danger of
 being suffocated. ( with Antares, and 3 in the 4th, 7th, 11th,
 or 12th houses with Aldebaran, the native will die by the sword,
 or by a blow or a sudden fall. ( with Antares, in & to b with
 140
s
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTs
 141
 Aldebaran, shows that, if the native be not hanged, he will at
 least die a violent death. 2 or 3 with Caput Algol, and the @
 with Deneb or the Tail of the Lion, he dies by the sentence of the
 judge. The ( with Cor Hydra, afflicted by 2 or 3, he will be
 in danger of poison or of drowning; and, if the infortune be
 angular, it is so much the more certain. The ( with Procyon,
 and the G) or 3 with Lucida Vulturis, or Fomahaut, shows dan
 ger of being bit by a venomous beast. The ( with Syrius, and
 b or 3 with Ultima in ala Pegasi, gives a violent death by the
 fury of violent beasts or martial men. The ( with Cingula
 Orionis and b, or Caput Hercules or Antares, shows the native
 will be in danger of perishing by water or by wicked persons.
 The ( with the Pleiades, and b or 3 with Regulus, shows the
 loss of one or both the eyes; and this judgment is confirmed
 if ( at the same time be combust. The Pleiades in d with 3,
 and Regulus with b are eminent significations of a violent and
 untimely death. Fixed stars of the 1st magnitude near the cusp
 of the 7th, show a good and rich wife; but her condition will
 much sympathize with the nature of the stars significators, joined
 with fixed stars of the 1st or 2nd magnitude, near the ecliptic,
 shew great preferment and eminent honors. Fixed stars of the
 nature of b, in d with the G), involve the native in a succession
 of troubles by repeated affliction. Fixed stars of the nature of
 3 and G), or 8 and (, give glory and renown; of the nature of
 24 and 2, or # and 2,honor and wealth. Fixed stars in angles,
 especially with the benefics, give admirable preferment, and many
 great gifts, and elevate from poverty to an extreme height of
 fortune.
 OF TRANSITS
 A TRANSIT is the passing of any planet over the body or
 aspect of any promittor or radical significator in a nativity. That
 transits have a peculiar effect in nativities is well known to all
 who have paid any attention to the subject; and yet they have
 also at times unaccountably failed. This failure of transits in
 some cases, and their remarkable truth in others, has afforded
 us much consideration, for we find that all transits seem to have
 their proper effect when made on or near the birth-day, thus
 justifying, in a great degree, the opinion which the ancient astrol
 ogers had of the revolutional figure, or the sun's return to the
 original place which he occupied in the radix: the reason of
 which is plain, as all astrological calculations are made from the
 geocentric positions of the planets.
 Now, when Jupiter or Venus shall transit the principal angles,
 as the mid-heaven, ascendant, or the places of the sun and moon,
 these times will be attended with singular success, provided they
 are not in evil aspect to Saturn, Mars, or Herschel; for then,
142
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 instead of good, evil may be expected; but, if Jupiter or Venus
 should be in good aspect with each other without the interposition
 of malefic rays, the good becomes doubled. If Herschel, Saturn,
 or Mars, shall transit the mid-heaven, the ascendant, or the places
 of the luminaries, by good aspect, and they are in favorable aspect
 to Jupiter or Venus at the same time, without any aspect to each
 other, they produce good to the native: if by evil rays, as the
 conjunction, square, or opposition, they portend bad; but if they
 be in good aspect to the benefics at the same time, this will soften
 their malignant influence, and that planet which gives testimony
 by good aspect signifies the means by which the native will be
 assisted. But, in this mode of judgment, special regard ought to
 be had to those days in which the aspects are most complete.
 OF SECONDARY DIRECTIONS
 BY secondary directions, we are to understand those configura
 tions and familiarities of the planets which arise daily from the
 time of birth, and are applied to the prediction of events that are
 to come to pass in the same succession of years from the birth as
 correspond with those days. For example, all aspects of the
 stars, both to the luminaries and cardinal houses, that happen on
 the first day after birth, are applied to the first year; those of the
 second day after birth, to the second year; those of the third day
 to the third year, and so on in progressive rotation, as far as this
 speculation can extend.
 In the management of these directions we are principally to
 observe what configurations the ( has to the other planets; for
 if she be joined with benefic stars, or irradiated by their good
 aspects, or even by the good aspects of the infortunes, it denotes a
 happy, healthful, and prosperous year to the native, in nature and
 quality peculiar to the principal significator in each configuration,
 and to the houses and signs in which they fall in the radical figure.
 But, on the contrary, if ( be joined to malevolent stars, or
 irradiated by them, or in parallel declination of the infortunes, it
 forebodes to those years pointed out by the days in which these
 evil configurations happen, great afflictions either in mind, body,
 or estate; and, if a primary, direction should correspond with
 them, of the same malignant nature, a complication of temporal
 misfortunes will most probably ensue.
 In the consideration of these directions, we are particularly
 to attend to the critical days and climacterical years; for at those
 times the good or evil configurations of the planets are most
 powerful in their operation. If, upon either of those occasions,
 the @ be found in II or & to the place in which she was posited
 at the time of birth, and an evil primary direction of the significa
 tion of life correspond therewith, death is then at the door, or at
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 143
 that time very much to be feared even in the strongest constitu
 tions, or however healthy they may appear to be when they
 begin to take effect.
 And so, likewise, if G or (I , in the secondary directions, be
 afflicted by the malignant rays of inauspicious configurations,
 with an evil primary direction, with which both the revolution
 and transit agree, it is considered an irrevocable indication of
 death to the native.
 These secondary directions have always been in reputation
 among the Arabs and Egyptians, who, in common practice, prefer
 this method of predicting from the genethliacal figure, to the
 more complicated and laborious mode of calculation by the pri
 mary directions. The former practice has doubtlessly the advan
 tage in point of expedition; for, by the use of it in those coun
 tries, they will, upon the bare inspection of a nativity, give an
 account of the general and particular incidents during the whole
 course of the native’s life. It is a doctrine much on a level with
 that of horary questions, and may be used to give a general idea
 of the native’s figure of birth, and of his probable bent of for
 tune, where time or circumstances will not admit of particular
 calculations.
 >
 DISSERTATIONS ON THE PART OF FORTUNE
 THE circumstances regulating the fortune of wealth are to be
 judged of from that part alone which is expressly denominated
 the Part of Fortune; the position of which is, in all cases, whether
 arising in the day or in the night, always as far removed from
 the ascendant as the sun is distant from the moon.
 When the Part of Fortune has been determined, it must be
 ascertained to what planets the dominion of it belongs; and their
 power and connection, as also the power and connection of others
 configurated with them, or in elevation above them, whether of
 the same or of an adverse condition, are then to be observed: for,
 if the planets which assume dominion of the Part of Fortune be
 in full force, they will create much wealth, and especially should
 the luminaries also give them suitable testimony in addition.
 In this manner, Saturn will effect the acquirement of wealth
 by means of buildings, agriculture, or navigation; Jupiter, by
 holding some government or office of trust, or by the priesthood;
 Mars, by the army and military command; Venus, by means of
 friends, by the dowry of wives, or by other gifts proceeding from
 women; and Mercury by the sciences and trade.
 Should Saturn, however, when thus in influence over the for
 tune of wealth, be also configurated with Jupiter, be particularly
 provides wealth through inheritance; especially, if the configura
 tion should exist in the superior angles, Jupiter being also in a
144
 '
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 bicorporal sign, and receiving the application of the moon; for,
 in such a case, the native will also be adopted by persons unallied
 to him, and will become heir to their property.
 And, further, if other stars, of the same condition as those
 which rule the Part of Fortune, should likewise exhibit testi
 monies of dominion, the wealth will be permanent; but, on the
 other hand, if stars of an adverse condition should either be in
 elevation above the ruling places, or ascend in succession to them,
 the wealth will continue. The general period of its duration is,
 however, to be calculated by means of the declination of the stars,
 which operate the loss, in respect of the angles and succedent
 houses.*
 ~
 Ptolemy’s Tetrabiblos, Book 4, Chap. 2.
 TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE
 IN the diurnal geniture, the sun’s true distance from the east
 is to be added to the moon’s true right~ascension, and, in the
 nocturnal, subtracted; for the number thence arising will be the
 place and right ascension of the Part of Fortune; and it always
 has the same declination with the moon, both in number and
 name, wherever it is found. Again, let the sun’s oblique ascen
 sion, taken in the ascendant, be subtracted always from the
 oblique ascensionof the ascendant, as well in the day as in the
 night, and the remaining difference be added to the moon’s right
 ascension: the sum will be the right ascension of the Part of
 Fortune, which will have the moon’s declination.”’r
 Placidus de Titus.
 ANOTHER WAY
 A much simpler and equally correct way of calculating the
 Part of Fortune, is given in a late publication, viz.: “To the
 oblique ascension of the ascendant or horoscope, add the true
 oblique ascension of the moon, taken in the pole of the horoscope;
 and from this sum subtract the sun’s oblique ascension, likewise
 taken under the same pole. The remainder will be the true
 oblique ascension of the Part of Fortune.”
 Astrological Dictionary.
 ‘That is_ to say, its duration will depend on the time requisite to complete the
 arc_ of direction, or prorogation between the stars operating the loss, and the places
 which give the wealth.
 1'If the €Dis going from the conjunction to the opposition of the Q, then the
 ( follows the , and the Part of Fortune is always under the earth, from the ascendant;
 but, if the ( has passed the 8, she goes before the Q, and the Part of Fortune is before
 the ascendant, and always above the earth.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 METHOD OF CALCULATING THE
 PART OF FORTUNE
 BY THE ZODIACAL PLANISPHERE
 145
 To the above scientific methods of calculation, we will add
 the following, which is the most correct method that has been
 given of calculating the Part of Fortune by the planisphere (an
 instrument which, we perceive, is now used by most of the artists
 of the present day), which is as follows :—In order to calculate
 the Part of Fortune by the planisphere, extend the line of the
 moon’s declination parallel with the equator, to an indefinite
 length, both towards the eastern and western horizons; then take
 the true distance of the sun from the ascendant, and, with this
 extent, place one point of the compass on the place of the moon,
 and the place where the other point touches on her declination is
 the mundane place of the Pars Fortunce. In order to get its
 zodiacal place, draw its pole, by the circular ruler (used for
 marking the cusps of the houses), and where this polar line cuts
 the zodiacal line, the degree and minute of the zodiac which
 answers thereto is the true place required.
 It being an established rule,
 As 0 :ascendant :: ) : G),
 or, in words, so far as the 0 on the line of his declination is from
 the ascendant, so far is the ) , on the line of her declination, from
 the G9. The GB is also the true place of the ) , at sun-rising, and
 it may be remarked, without fear of contradiction, that this point
 may be calculated more correctly by the zodiacal planisphere,
 than in any other way whatever.
 From the foregoing quotations cited from Ptolemy and
 Placidus, two of the most ancient and renowned astrologers, it
 will be seen that they placed ample dependence upon the efiects
 of the Part of Fortune. In modern times, it seems that this
 influence is rather doubted amongst our English artists, some of
 whom have not scrupled to call the Part of Fortune a “mere
 phantom,” and an “imaginary point,” with other similar phrases
 equally intelligible to the experienced student. Notwithstanding
 the assertions of these writers, we maintain that no one who is
 unbiased by prejudice can make trial of the supposed effects of
 this point, without becoming soon convinced of its efficacy and
 real influence over the fortunes of any particular native. Let
 any one who disputes this point bring up the directions thereto,
 and, if he finds the GB meet the U or 8 of *2, 6 or 131, or even
 the D or Q, without some tremendous losses, or if he finds
 the 6B directed to 7-1 or 9 , without peculiar and extraordinary
 good and supereminent success in his worldly affairs ; or if any
146
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 one who had the €9 angular in his geniture, and unafflicted, did
 not become rich before the age of thirty years: if they rightly
 calculate the €9, and find none of these effects to take place,
 which we challenge them to produce a single authenticated
 instance of, then, and only then, will it be their duty to cry down
 its real effects as supposed, and to call it imaginary, delusive,
 and void of reason. But, until they have done this, let them
 conceal their ignorance of prognostic astronomy by using a digni
 y
 fied silence upon matters they understand not. If the Part of
 Fortune be an imaginary point, so is also more than two-thirds
 of the science; for what are the great circles of the zodiac but
 imaginary, in any part, when the sun is not present? And what
 are the aspects to fixed stars more than hundreds of millions of
 miles distant from our earth, but imaginary? Nay, what are the
 points of the horizon, ascending and descending, of the zenith,
 nodes, and the houses themselves, but imaginary, since they leave
 no palpable traces of any such curvatures? Yet they do exist,
 and their influence is every day proved beyond the possibility of
 a doubt. Let us hear no more, then, of imaginary effects; for,
 least of all, should astrologers talk of referring remote causes to
 a demonstrable standard, which never did, nor ever will, exist.
 OF REVOLUTIONS
 THE period in which a star revolves round the sun or the
 earth is the term generally applied to the annual period when the
 sun comes to the exact place wherein he was posited in the
 nativity; and to erect a revolutional figure is nothing more than
 to find the exact time of the sun's return to his radical place, and
 set a figure of the heavens thereto.
 There is a singular truth and much amusement, as well as
 instruction, in the theory of revolutions; and the best way of
 judging them is, first of all, to observe what planets are returned
 to their radical places, and what planets are in sextile, trine, or
 other aspect thereto. These will produce corresponding effects
 either good or evil, as the planets so returning are benevolent or
 malevolent in signification. And the effects thereof continue for
 some considerable time in active force, being more powerful,
 according as the directions, both primary and secondary, incline
 towards good or evil.
 The second way is to calculate the figure according to the
 whole of the dignities by house, exaltation, and triplicity, giving
 each its due share of celestial influence, without any reference
 at all to the radix; and accordingly as the figure shall be con
 stituted so will events be found to concur.
 This latter way the student will find extraordinarily correct.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 147
 Tm: ART OF RESOLVING Au. LAWFUL HORARY QUESTIONS
 WE have already laid down the fundamental rules of this
 department of the science, which may be readily found under the
 proper heads. It now remains to speak further of the method
 used in resolving a question.
 Horary Questions are questions asked at a certain hour.
 When a person feels his mind seriously agitated concerning the
 result of any undertaking or impending event. A figure of the
 heavens is then erected for the minute in which the question is
 asked, when, if the artist be skilful, and the querent sincere, and
 really anxious respecting the result, there is little reason to doubt
 but the answer will, in general, be true and satisfactory; the
 whole being the effect of that sympathy which pervades all
 nature, and which is the fundamental principle of all divination,
 under whatever form practised, where the querent and the artist
 are sincere.
 There is nothing in this either celestial or diabolical, meri
 torious or criminal, good or evil: a person is equally justifiable
 in making an inquiry into one thing as another; and to propose
 a horary question is an act as indifferent in itself, as to ask what
 it is o’clock: it contains nothing supernatural, for it is nature
 itself, operating in its usual way. It is, in fact, the same kind
 of sympathy which causes the magnet and iron to approach each
 other; a detached portion of earth to return towards the common
 centre; the water to approach the luminaries; the child to ap
 proach the nipple; the planets to revolve round the sun; the
 needle to point to the pole; the husband to feel the pain of gesta
 tion alternately with his wife, and to have milk in his breasts at
 the time of parturition; the mother to feel the draught flow into
 her breasts some seconds before the child awakes; the marks
 imprinted on a child in the womb by the mother’s wants or fears;
 the increasing or diminishing color of a fruit-mark, as the fruit
 it represents is in or out of season; the turbulence of wine at
 vintage-time; the responsive sound of one musical instrument
 untouched to another that is struck, and a thousand more in
 stances, superfluous to mention.
 All instinct is sympathy, and the same common affinity be
 tween various parts of matter, which induces rats to forsake a
 falling house, ants to quit their nests, carrying their young with
 them, before an inundation, and dogs to foretell disasters, will
 enable a human being to propose a horary question, at the instant
 of time when the heavens are favorably disposed to give a
 solution.
148
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE TIME OF RECEIVING A QUESTION
 Many disputes have arisen about the proper time for the
 figure of a horary question to be erected to. Some think, the
 moment when the querent is first seen by the artist, others when
 he salutes him, others when he inquires for him, &c. The true
 time, however, is that moment when the question is asked; or, if
 the artist cast his own figure, it should be the moment when he
 determined on doing it, whether he did it at that time or not:
 because it might not be done for want of convenience.
 Bonatus thought no artist could judge from his own figures,
 because he must judge partially; but of this he must be careful;
 and certainly no one ought to be so good a judge of his own
 feelings, and the proper sympathetic sensation requisite to con
 stitute a true figure, as an artist.
 Some, again, affirm, that the moment in which the querent
 experiences such a sensation is the time for erecting the figure:
 but, if the querent be not aware of this, the time cannot be
 directly known; and, therefore, the moment of his proposing the
 question is the true moment, however long he may have been in
 the journey; for nature and sympathy will amply provide for all
 this, and adapt the time to the circumstances. Thus, in case of a
 letter to such an effect being received by an artist, however long
 it may have remained in his hands unopened, the moment in
 which he comprehends its contents is the moment to which the
 figure must be erected. Should, however, any querent be aware
 of these things, and direct a figure to be made to any particular
 time, to that time the figure must be erected.
 TO RESOLVE A HORARY QUESTION
 In resolving a question of this nature, the artist must, in the
 first place, find out to which of the celestial houses the subject
 most properly belongs, which he will readily discover by referring
 to that section which treats of the operation of the twelve houses.
 He must then refer to the table of dignities, and by this means he
 will discover the planets bearing rule over the subject in question,
 and its various contingencies.
 In the next place, the moon must be considered, for she is
 always a powerful significator in subjects of this nature, and by
 her benevolent influence conduces much to the performance of
 any demand. Afterwards must be considered the various aspects,
 both for and against the matter in hand, as well as the positions,
 receptions, translations, and frustrations (if any), in the figure,
 as they shall occur, and which have been already explained. By
 this means, not only the true answer will be obtained, but every
 other remarkable event contingent thereon cannot fail to be
 discovered.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 149
 Our limits will not permit us to dwell longer on this subject,
 which would require a large volume of itself. But those who
 would become proficients herein, are recommended to peruse the
 works of LILY, the famous astrologer of Cromwell’s time, who
 shone unrivalled in this branch of astral science. There is also a
 great deal of information on this subject to be derived from the
 perusal of Coley, Thrasher, Ball, Middleton, and Wilson; in the
 last author particularly. But, above all, those who would wish to
 read “the language of the stars” should apply to some professor
 of eminence and integrity; for, experience being the best master,
 the student would learn more under a skilful artist in a few
 weeks than he would in as many months, or even years, by his
 own application, if destitute of proper examples.
 THE PLANETARY DIGNITIES
 MUCH controversy has lately arisen upon this disputed point;
 and it is still a desideratum in astrology, to be actually convinced,
 whether the planets are bona fide better or worse by being in
 their houses, exaltations, or triplicities. Much on either side has
 been said, much more may be said, and still will the truth remain
 obscured; arising from the difficulty of judging accurately, where
 so many complex arguments are, pro and con, brought forward.
 But it is a singular fact (which it will puzzle the enemies of
 essential dignities to account for, and which they cannot contra
 dict), namely, that, from the time of the actual commencement
 of any event, the end thereof and its contingencies may be pre
 dicted. From whence does this arise? Not from the sympathy
 of a question, for, if no question were asked for years, still, at
 any future period, indefinitely, if the figure of the heavens be
 erected to the precise time when the commencement of any past
 event occurred, and judged by the rules laid down for the essen
 tial dignities, the eevnts thereof will still be plainly denoted,
 whether past, present, or future. Here, then, the effect cannot
 be sympathy, but must be preordained and immutable. How,
 then, will the adversaries of the old system get over this dilemma?
 If they make an experiment of the fact, they will be soon con
 vinced thereof ; and we would ask them, if this be the case, why
 should not the face of the heavens at birth carry the fate of the
 native with it, according to the symbolical nature of the dignities,
 as well as it evidently does at the commencement of any enter
 prise? Suppose a question were asked at the moment of time an
 infant was born, the anti-dignitarists would then calculate the
 star bearing rule in the ascendant, &c. &c. and judge therefrom.
 How they will make the distinction between one case and the
 other we shall leave to time and experience to determine. In
 our foregoing treatise we have given rules for judging a nativity,
150
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 without the ancient system of the dignities, and yet, after all, the
 ancient astrologers seem to have far surpassed the moderns.
 We will now give three examples of the axiom we laid down,
 “that the end of every undertaking may be discovered by the‘face
 of the heavens at the commencement thereof,” and they are all
 three not only well-known to hundreds of persons, but also of a
 recent date.
 The first example is the Figure Of The Heavens, shown in
 Next Chapter.
CHAPTER XVI
 Jftgurz Gt ‘Gibe ilaeahens
 FOR THE TIME OF THE UNFORTUNATE HARRIS’S
 ASCENT FROM THE EAGLE TAVERN,
 IN THE CITY ROAD
 WHICH TERMINATED IN THE LOSS OF HIS
 EXISTENCE
 Planets‘ Places utMr. Harris’: Birth, May 24, 5 h. Om. A. M. 179?.
 81
 *r
 1
f
 in
 ts
 8
 ‘n
 at
 1,1 15 cl t, 21 1oju_22 2sRl 3 2~ 0‘ g 13 ml Q 2~ 4sRl@a asl <1 9 54
 The time of the above unfortunate gentleman’s ascent was
 noted down by many persons, and is certainly the most striking
 proof of astrology, and of the arguments we have advanced, that
 could possibly be brought forward. It was, however, not a
 horary question, but the result of after-calculation. Yet, as
 calculations after the event could not invalidate the testimony
 drawn from the actual time thereof (which could not be altered),
 it is scarcely necessary to mention anything further by way of
 preface.
 151
152
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Venus rules the ascendant, which planet, with the moon, are
 the significators of Harris; and here we find the moon in Aries,
 on the west angle, in opposition to the house of life, and recently
 separating from the square of Herschel, who is in opposition to
 Jupiter, from the third and ninth houses (houses of long and
 short journeys), which clearly showed a dangerous voyage; and
 next we find Venus, lady of the ascendant, the house of life, near
 the cusp of the eighth house, or house of death! Mercury, lord
 of the house of hopes, is also in that fatal house; and, lastly,
 Saturn,—the evil planet, Saturn,—at all times a messenger of
 woe, is ruler of the fourth house, or the final end of all things,
 and is within the very limits of the fatal boundary,–the house of
 dissolution | A stronger testimony of a calamitous end could
 scarcely be evinced!
 The next example is—
 A FIGURE FOR
 THE FATAL ASCENT OF MR. SADDLER, THE AERONAUT, AT
 BOLTON-LE-MOOR
Which Was Noticed By An Intelligent Correspondent
 SEPT. 29,
 1824.
 2 h. 5. m. P. M.
 In this instance, Saturn, the author of misery, rules the house
 of life, and is applying, by a retrograde motion, to the opposition
 of the cruel and inveterate Mars, who is posited in the hurtful
 sign Sagittarius, a sign pre-eminent for falls and hurts, and dan
 gerous casualties, when póssessed by malevolent influence.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 153
 The moon, a co-significator, is applying by rapid motion to
 the quartile of the sun, lord of the house of death, who disposes
 of Jupiter, the only benevolent planet in the scheme, while
 Herschel is also vitiating the ascendant: a singular combination
 of evil, rarely to be met with, and never failing to cause death or
 imminent peril.
 It is a very singular circumstance, that Jupiter, in the seventh
 house, shows good fortune to the wife, even by this calamitous
 event; which actually proved the case, a subscription being raised
 for her benefit, by a number of gentlemen, &c.
 The third example is a—
 FIGURE‘ Fox THE SUCCESSFUL ASCENT OF GRAHAM
 THE AERONAUT
 From Berwick Street, In Company With The Unfortunate Harris
 This aerial ascent was the finest that had ever taken place in
 the metropolis, and attracted the admiration of some thousands
 of persons, the streets and houses near the scene being lined with
 spectators. The astrological reason of which is plainly discov
 ered from the figure; for Venus rules the fourth house, and is
 placed in her own dignities in the house of voyages and long
 journeys in an aerial sign ; and the moon is in trine to the lord
 of the ascendant, who is in reception with Venus, and Jupiter is
 angular in the seventh house. These positions denote the great
 est success, which was the case, in every respect, except in gain;
 the experiment being at the sole personal cost of the aéronaut,
 and consequently no gain could accrue therefrom.
 I
154
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 It was at this time that the unfortunate Harris first com
 menced his aéronautical career by ascending with the subject of
 the present article; and, although they were at this time excellent
 friends, yet soon afterwards (partly through female intrigue),
 they became decidedly hostile to each other. Now, when we
 consider the position of
 ercury, who applies to the quartile of
 Jupiter, the lords of the 11th and 5th houses, and the square of
 Mars and Venus, we see that this also, as well as every other
 circumstance, was plainly shown in the position of the heavens
 at the time this aerial voyage commenced.
 RAPHAEL.
 THE ART OF CALCULATING ASTROLOGICAL PROB
 LEMS BY TRIGONOMETRY
 Problem Ist.—The longitude of a star, without latitude, being
 given to find its declination in the ecliptic.*
 Rule, Add the size of 23° 28’ to the sine of the star’s distance
 from the nearest equinoctial point; the sum, less radius, will be
 the sine of the star’s declination.
 _
 Example: Suppose the 0 in 27° 36’ of ‘T’, what is his
 declination ?
 The first point of ‘T’ is the nearest equinoctial point to where
 the (D is: his distance from it is 27° 36', the logarithmic sine of
 which will be found in the table (in the common angle of 27°
 and 36’) to be 9.66585. Add to this the logarithm 9.60011, be
 longing to the tropical sine, 23° 28', less radius, and it will give
 the logarithm 9.26596, which will be found to answer to the sine
 of 10° 38', which is the CD’s declination.
 Problem 2d.—The longitude and latitude of a star given, to
 f
 ind its declination.
 Rule.—ist, Add the tangent of 23° 28' to the sine of the
 longitudinal distance from the nearest equinoctial point; the sum,
 less radius, will be the tangent of the 1st angle.
 2d, If the latitude and longitude have the same denomination,
 —namely, if the latitude be north and the star in a northern sign,
 _or south and the star in a southern ~sign,—the latitude must be
 subtracted from 90°. But, if the latitude and longitude are of
 different denominations, the latitude must be added to 90°. Sub
 tract the 1st angle from the sum or remainder, and it will give
 the amount of the 2d angle.
 3d, As the cosine of the 1st angle is to the cosine of the 2d
 angle, so is the cosine of 23° 28' to the sine of the required
 declination.
 ' It is useless here to enter any farther into the rinciples of Trigonometry than is
 necessary to the subject we are u on, and it is there ore only requisite to observe, that
 the tables of Logarithms, Sines_ angents and Secunts_ as referred to here, are those
 used with the nautical ephemeris, and may be had of almost any bookseller.
 .
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 155
 The declination will have the same denomination as the sign
 in which the star is, north or south, provided it be greater than
 the latitude. But if it be less than the latitude, and the latitude
 be of an opposite denomination to the sign, the declination will
 have the same denomination as the latitude.
 Example: Suppose 7-1 to be in 3° 21' of V3, with 0° 24’ north
 latitude, what will be his declination?
 The nearest equinoctial point is ‘T’, from which 7‘1 is distant
 860
 39
 I
 Sine of 86° 39',
 Add the tangent of 23° 28',
 It gives the tangent of the first angle,
 9.99926
 9.63761
 9.63687, equal to
 23° 26’. As the latitude and longitude are of opposite denomina
 tions, I add the 24’ to 90°, which gives 90° 24’, from which I
 subtract the Ist angle, 23° 26’, leaving a remainder of 66° 58',
 which is the second_angle.
 ‘
 As the cosine of the Ist angle, 23° 26' (of which I take the
 arith. comp. for the sake of addition),
 0.03738
 is to the cosine of the 2d angle, 66° 58’,
 so is the cosine of 23° 28',
 to the sine of the required declination,
 9.59247
 9.96251
 9.59236, which is
 equal to 23° 2' of south declination, as 74 is in a southern sign.
 Had this declination been less than the latitude, it would have
 been north, because the latitude is north, and of a different
 denomination from the longitude.
 Problem 5th.—To find the_ ascensional difference from the
 declination.
 Rule. Add the tangent of the latitude of the place to the
 '
 tangent of the star's declination ; the sum will be the sine of the
 ascensional difference.
 Example. What is the ascensional difference of 74 in the
 latitude 51° 32’ with 23° 2' declination.
 Tangent of 51° 32’,
 10.09991
 Tangent of 23° 2’,
 9.62855
 Sine of ascensional difference required, 9.72846, or 32° 21’.
 N. B. If the tangent of the declination be added to the tan
 gent of the pole of a star, it will give the ascensional difference
 of that star under its pole.
 Problem 3rd.—To find the right ascension of a star, not hav
 ing latitude.
 '
 ‘
 Rule. Add the cosine of its longitudinal distance from the
 nearest equinoctial point to the arithmetical complement of the
 cosine of its declination; the sum will be the cosine of its right
 ascension from the equinoctial point, from which the longitudinal
156
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 distance was taken. The arc thus found will, if the star be in
 ‘p, 8, or II, be the right ascension; but, if it be in co, S2, or m2,
 it must be subtracted from 180°; if in =~, m, or 4 , 180° must
 be added to it; and if in V3, 4:, or 96, the arc found must be
 subtracted from 360°.
 Example: Suppose the Q to be in 15° 6 of f, with 5° 58'
 of declination, I would know his right ascension?
 Arithmetical complement of the cosine of the
 declination, 5° 58',
 Cosine of its longitudinal distance from the first
 point of P, 15° 6',
 Cosine of the sun's right ascension,
 o.OO236
 9.98474
 9.987IO
 equal to 13° 53', which, as the sun is in P, is the true right
 ascension required. '
 Problem 4th.—To find the right ascension of a star, having
 latitude.
Rule. As the cosine of the star's declination is to the cosine
 of its longitudinal distance from the nearest equinoctial point, so
 is the cosine of its latitude to the cosine of the right ascension
 required.
 Example: Suppose 24 to be in 3° 21' of V3, with 23° 2' of
 declination, and o° 24' of latitude, what will be his right ascen
 sion?
 As the cosine of 24's declination (arith. comp.),
 23° 2',
 is to the cosine of his longitudinal distance from the
 first point of ‘P, 86° 39',
 so is the cosine of his latitude, o° 24',
 to the cosine of his right ascension from that
 point, 86° 21',
 o,03608
 8.76667
 9.99998
 8.80273
 Subtract the 86° 21' from 360°, 24 being in V3, it will leave a
 remainder of 273° 39', which is the true right ascension of 24.
 If, however, the star be in the beginning of f with great
 north latitude, or in the beginning of = with great south lati
 tude, the above method will not give the right ascension correctly,
 and therefore the proportion must be altered as follows:—
 As radius is to the sine of the star's longitudinal distance, so
 is the cotangent of the latitude to the tangent of the first arc.
 This first arc, when found, must be subtracted from the
 ecliptical difference, 23° 28, and the remainder will be the second
 arC.
 As the sine of the first arc is to the sine of the second arc, so is
 the tangent of the longitudinal distance to the tangent of the right
 ascension, from that point from whence it was taken, which,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 157
 being regulated as before directed, will give the true right ascen
 sion. But the first rule will answer very well if the star be 2°
 distant from the first point of ‘T’ or 2.
 When the ascensional difference and right ascension are
 .
 obtained, the semiarcs and oblique ascension or descension will
 be found in the usual way, as directed under the head of those
 articles; the oblique ascension, by subtracting the ascensional
 difference from the right ascension, if the declination be north, _
 or adding it if south; and the oblique descension, by adding the
 ascensional difference, if the declination be north, or subtracting
 it if south; if the star have no declination, it has only right
 ascension.
 The semidiurnal arc will be found by adding the ascensional
 difference to 90°, if the declination be north, or subtracting it if
 south ; and the seminocturnal arc by subtracting the ascensional
 difference from 90°, if the declination be north, or by adding it
 if south.
 Problem 5th.—To find the point of the ecliptic on the cusp of
 the midheaven for any given time.
 Rule.—1st, Add the time from the last noon to the sun’s right
 ascension in time; the sum will be the right ascension of the
 midheaven in time. This must be turned into degrees and
 minutes.
 2d, Add the cotangent of the right ascension from the nearest
 equinox to the cosine of 23° 28’; the sum will be the cotangent of
 the longitude from the said nearest equinoctial point.
 Example: Suppose the right ascension of the mid-heaven to
 be 72° 38', what point of the ecliptic should culminate?
 Cotangent of 72° 38’ (its distance in right ascen
 sion from Aries),
 Cosine of 23° 28’,
 ‘
 9.49519
 9.96250
 Cotangent of the longitude from ‘T’, 74° 0’, 9.45769
 Equal to 14° of 11.
 '
 ' When the star isin ‘T’ , 8 , or 11, this gives the longitude from
 ‘T’ ; if in S, 83, or ml, subtract the arc so found from 9o°,—it
 gives the longitude from 5 ; if in 2, 111, or 1 , it gives the lon
 gitude from 2 without subtraction; and if in V3, .23‘, or )6, by
 subtracting it from 90°, it gives the longitude from V3.
 Problem 6th.—To find what point of the ecliptic occupies the
 cusp of any house, except the 10th or 4th.
 Rule. Add 30° to the right ascension of the mid-heaven for
 every house, according to its distance from the mid-heaven east
 ward; the sum will be the oblique ascension of such house
 (namely, 30° for the 11th, 60° for the 12th, 90° for the horo
 scope, 120° for the 2d, and 150° for the 3d). Thus, if the right
 ascension of the mid-heaven be 72° 38’, the oblique ascension of
158
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 the 11th will be 102° 38': of the 12th, 132° 38’ ; of the horoscope,
 162° 38'; of the 2d, 192° 38'; and of the 3d, 222° 38').
 2d, To the cosine of the oblique ascension of the house, taken
 from the nearest equinoctial point, add the cotangent of the pole
 of the house; the sum will be the cotangent of the first arc.
 3d, If the cusp of the house be nearest to Aries, add to the
 f
 irst arc 23° 28' ; but, if nearest to Libra, subtract 23° 28' from
 it; the sum or remainder will be the second arc.
 4th, As the cosine of the 2d arc is to the cosine of the Ist arc,
 so is the tangent of the oblique ascension of the house to the
 tangent of its longitude from Aries or Libra; for, if the second
 angle be less than 90°, the longitude must be reckoned from the
 same equinoctial point the oblique ascension was taken from, but,
 if more than 90°, from the other point.
 Example: What point of the ecliptic should occupy the cusp
 of the 11th house, the R. A. of the mid-heaven being 72° 38'?
 Cosine of the O. A. of the'nth, 102° 38’, or
 77° 22' from *—~,
 Cotangent of the pole of the 11th, 23° 27’,
 Cotangent of the 1st arc,
 63° 14’,
 Being the nearest to 2, subtract 23 28
 Second arc,
 9‘33987
 10.36274
 9.70261
 39 46
 As the cosine of the 2d arc, 39° 46’ (arith. comp.), 0.11427
 is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 63° 14',
 9.65355
 so is the tangent of the oblique ascension, 77° 22',
 to the tangent of its longitude, 69° 4',
 10.64949
 10.41731
 As the 2° arc is less than 90°,‘the longitude must be taken from
 2, from whence the oblique ascension was taken; it is therefore
 69° 4’ distant from 2, and, as it lies between that sign and the
 f
 irst point of 5, it must be subtracted from 90°, and it will give
 20° 56' of 5 for the cusp of the 11th house. The cusps of the
 other four houses, viz. the 12th, 1st, 2d, and 3d, may be found
 the same way, by means of their respective poles, and adding 30°
 to each for its oblique ascension. The cusps of the other six
 houses are of course in opposite signs, degrees, and minutes.
 Example: In the 12th house of the same figure, its oblique
 ascension will be nearer to 2 by 30°, so that its oblique ascension
 will be distant from that point only 47° 22'.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Cosine of 47° 22', its distance from s-, 9.83078
 The pole of the 12th is 40° 48', the co
 tangent of which is
 10.06390
 Cotangent of the 1st arc,
 159
 9.89468 51° 53’ 1st arc
 23 28
 As cosine of 2d arc, 28° 25’,
 is to cosine of 1st arc, 51 53,
 so is tangent of dist. 47 22,
 to the tangent of long. 37° 19',
 0.05576
 9.79047
 10.03592
 28 25 2d arc
 9.88215
 This is its distance from a, which, subtracted from 90 ,
 gives the distance from S, of 52° 41', or 22° 41' of S1,, for the
 cusp of the 12th house.
 0
 The longitude of the horoscope may be had the same way, but,
 as we have it correct to a minute in the table of houses, we shall
 proceed to the 2d house.
 By taking 60° of oblique ascension away for the difference
 between the oblique distance of the 12th and 2d houses we bring
 it 60° nearer to Libra, or, to speak more properly, we pass Libra,
 for our distance of the 12th from Libra was but 47° 22’ of
 oblique ascension, which, subtracted from 60°, will make our
 distance from Libra 12° 38’ on the other side, the cosine of
 which is,
 9.98935
 Cotangent of the pole of the 2d
 house, 40° 48',
 Cotangent of the 1st arc,
 10.06390
 10.05325
 As the A. C. of the cosine of the 2d arc,
 is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 41° 30’,
 so is the tangent of this dist.
 to the tangent of longitude,
 12 38,
 10° 1',
 which, without any alteration, is 10° 1' of Libra.
 41° 30’ 1st arc
 23 28
 18
 2 2d arc
 18° 2', 0.02184
 9.87445
 9.35051
 9.24680
160
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 For the 3d house we add 30° to the oblique distance, 12° 38'
 from Libra, and it gives 42° 38’, the cosine of which is,
 _
 The pole of the 3d house IS 23°
 27', the cotangent of which
 is
 Cotangent of the 1st arc,
 9.86670
 10.36274
 10.22944
 '
 As the cosine of the 2d arc, 7° 3’ 0.00330
 1st arc, 30° 31’
 23 28
 2d arc, 7 3
 is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 30 31 9.93524
 so is the tangent of the dist. 12 38 9.96408
 to the tangent of longitude 38° 41’9.90362
 which is 38° 42’
 distant from Libra, or 8° 42’ of T11. The opposite houses have of
 course the same degrees and minutes of the opposite signs.
 Problem 7th.—To find the pole of a star, or house, in any
 f
 igure.
 Ru1e.—1st, As the semiarc of the star or point is to 90°, so is
 its right distance from the 10th or 4th house (according as it may
 be situated) to the difference between its circle of position and
 that of the meridian, which difference, subtracted from its right
 distance, will give its ascensional difference under its own pole.
 2d, To the sine of this ascensional difference add the cotan
 gent of its declination; the sum will be the tangent of its pole.
 Example: Suppose the seminocturnal arc of 7-1 to be 122°
 26’, his right distance from the 4th, 21° 1’, and his declination
 23° 2', what will be his polar elevation (commonly called his
 pole) ?
 Here we may use the proportional logarithms, which are con
 tained in the same book as the logarithms of sines, tangents, and
 secants.
 As the S. N. A. of 7.1, 122° 26' (proportional logarithm), 1674
 is to 90° (pro. log.)
 so is his right distance from the 4th, 21° 1’ (pro. log.)
 to the distance between its circle of position from the
 3010
 9327
 1‘2337
 ‘
 1674
 LO663
 4th, which is equal to 15° 27’
 Subtract this 15° 27’ from the right distance, 21° 1', it will
 give the ascensional difference of 1! under his pole, 5° 34'.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 161
 To the sine of the ascensional difference of 2!, 5° 34', 8.98678
 add the cotangent of 7.t’s declination,
 23 2, 10.37145
 the sum is the tangent of ?_£’spole,
 12 51, 9.35823
 When the polar elevation of any house is wanted, its semiarc
 and declination will be those of the (9, when he is posited in that
 point.
 The arithmetical complement of these proportional logarithms
 may be found by subtracting the logarithm from 10.000, which
 will enable the operator to perform the whole by addition. At
 the tops of the columns of these logarithms the value is placed in
 degrees and minutes, leaving the left hand column for the
 seconds, but they may be made to answer to any sexagenary
 proportion. For instance, the logarithm of 74’s S. N. A., 122°
 26’, is the logarithm of 2° 2’ 6", but, by considering every minute
 as a degree, the operation will be the same.
 Those who can work by Trigonometry,* according to the
 problems here laid down, will find their operations more correct
 than they possibly can be by referring to tables, provided they
 take their logarithms right; and, in finding the pole of a planet
 or house, or working with it when it is found, it is indispensably
 necessary, for by this means the pole may be taken and used even
 to a minute. I would therefore advise the student, if he be not
 already acquainted with trigonometry and the use of logarithms,
 to become so as soon as possible, especially if he would calculate
 to any degree of exactness.
 ' Next to Trigonometry, the planisphere is to be preferred.
_l
 *** *****goggs:
 f *ogs, 8%.4% £669cog0ee#6%)
 s: €83&#8&#PP&sea"
 CHAPTER XVII
 WONDERFUL PROPHECIES
 BY CELEBRATED ASTROLOGERS,
 INCLUDING THOSE OF
 HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS OLIVE OF CUM
 BERLAND, THE RENOWNED NOSTRADAMUS,
 &c. &c. &c.
 A COMMENTARY ON THE CELEBRATED PROPHECY
 OF NOSTRADAMUS,
 Relative To The Destruction Of London By Fire, In 1666.
 ORIGINAL PROPHECY
 Le sang du juste a Londres fera faute
 Bruslez par feu, de vingt et trois, les six,
 La dame antique cherra de place haute,
 De mesme secte plusieurs seront occis.
 162
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 TRANSLATION
 The blood 0' th’ just requires,
 Which out of London reeks,
 That it be raz’d with fires,
 In year threescore and six;
 The ancient dame shall fall
 Down from her place on high,
 And of the same sect shall
 Many another die.
 163
 THE versions of Nostradamus that have been attempted in
 our own language have been such uncouth productions, that they
 certainly could not be expected to please; and many reasons may
 be given for the diction in which they have appeared. I hope,
 therefore, without the imputation of vanity, that I shall be able
 to afford my readers an opportunity of more fairly appreciating
 Nostradamus than any preceding commentator has yet given
 _
 them, by inserting a few of his most striking predictions, and
 accompanying each with a translation in plain literal English.
 THE VIOLENT MARY
 The first thing we have to notice is the date at which this very
 surprisingly accurate prediction was made and written, which was
 about the year I558, while our kingdom was under the dominion
 and persecution of that fiend-like woman, the Violent Mary.
 Having observed the date, let us attend to the first words of the
 oracle, “The blood of the just requires,” from which it is to be
 inferred that, according to our prophet, the judgment he foresaw
 was to fall in expiation of the violent persecution and massacre
 of the just that was carrying on in his time. And it is worthy
 of being recollected, that Archbishop Cranmer, Bishops Hooper,
 Farrar, Ridley, and Latimer, who each were steadfast to the
 Protestant cause, were severally burnt alive; and that neither
 age, sex, learning, nor virtue, could gave the victims of that
 terrible female hyena from destruction. Numbers suffered for
 no other crime whatever than reading the Lord’s Prayer in
 English: and, had not Providence mercifully ended it by her
 death,‘ there is no knowing to what length her vengeance might
 have been extended.
 In the preliminary epistle to his son, Caesar, prefixed to the
 seven first centuries of his stanzas, he expressly says, that it is
 by “astronomical affections” that he has been enabled, “through
 the divine power of God," to foretell that which should after
 ward come to pass: and we are witnesses, that, more than a hun
 dred years preoious to the event, he points out the very year in
 which retribution should fall upon the city wherein we live, for
 the “just blood” which it had passively permitted to be shed in a
 former age.
164
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 RELIGIOUS TENETS OF THE ANCIENT BRITONS
 Before the introduction of Christianity into England, a pagan
 temple stood where St. Paul’s now stands. The British islanders,
 like all other ancient people of the earth, were Sabaists, or wor
 shippers of the heavenly bodies, directly or indirectly, as ex
 plained in another part of this volume: and the temple alluded
 to was dedicated to the moon, under her pagan title of Diana.
 Hence we perceive the application of that mysterious expression
 of the prophet, "the ancient dame shall fall,” &c. meaning evi
 dently the destruction of the grand national cathedral; and its
 eminent rank among the ecclesiastical structures of the world is
 forcibly signified by its being said that her fall is from “a high
 place.” This point being solved, it is easy to come at the sense of
 the remainder, namely, "many of the like sect,” or character,
 "shall fall,”—which doubtlessly means, like places of worship;
 and, with the historical fact before us, we are able to show how
 awfully the prediction was verified; for, from the 2d of Septem
 ber, in the precise year that had been specified, when the fire
 broke out, in the space of three days, eighty-nine parish churches
 and thirteen thousand two hundred dwelling-houses were reduced
 to ashes. The numerous monuments of this catastrophe which
 daily meet our eye are ample vouchers for the wonderful fidelity
 and capacity of the prophet, and for the perfection to which the
 science may be carried by men of sound mind and persevering
 talents.
'ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS.
 2. Clionberful $3ropherp 38p #203trabamug
 CONCERNING A GREAT FLOOD IN ENGLAND
 Le Grand Bretagne comprise d'Angleterre,
 Viendra par eaux si haut a inondre.
 TRANSLATION.
 Great Britain, by which England
 Is to be understood,
 By waters coming o'er her strand,
 Must suffer a huge flood.
 165
 THIS prophecy, as I judge from the date of the preliminary
 epistle, was written in 1555, or immediately afterward. It is
 contained in Stanza LXX, Century III, of Nostradamus: and in
 a book entitled Rerum in Galliá, Belgiá, Hispaniá, Angliá, &c.
 gestarum Anno 1607, tomi septimi, liber secundus, conscriptus a
 Nichaolao Gotardo, Artus Dantiscano, the following account is
 recorded; and which, independent of its proving so perfect a ful
 filment of the prediction, tells of an event which ought never to
 be forgotten; and we expect, by this our republication of the
 record, to afford an interesting story to all our readers.
 About the end of January, 1607, says the author, the sea
 broke out so violently in England, that, after the breaking of
 fences and dikes, it caused very great damage to the inhabitants.
 The greatest mischief was done in Somersetshire, where the
 water did overflow ten leagues in length and two in breadth,
166
 THE OLD BOOK or MAGIC I
 twelve foot high in the most eminent places. This sudden inun
 dation brought a fearful alarm to the country people. Some of
 them, going to their plough, were fain to run back to their houses,
 where they found their enemies at their doors, viz. death and
 water, which, without distinction, swept them away. In a little
 time, the towns appeared like islands, and presently after were
 swallowed up, so that the tops of the trees were scarcely seen.
 This new flood covered so the towns of Hansfield, in the same
 county; and those of Grantham, Kenbus, Kingston, and Biran
 don, with several farms built in the champaign country, that none
 of the buildings could be seen. If you add to this the devasta
 tion of the places, the quantity of corn, fruit, and grass, that was
 lost, the misery shall be so great as not to be expressed.
 DREADFUL ACCOUNT OF THE VAST NUMBERS OF
 PEOPLE AND CATTLE THAT PERISHED
 IN THE WATERS
 During this frightful contest between the water and the land,
 an exceeding great number of people died, of all ages and sexes.
 It would avail them nothing to get up into the upper stories, and
 on the roofs of their houses, nor upon the highest trees; for the
 imperious waters did so swell and rage, that the foundations of
 the houses and roots of the trees were loosened, and both fell to
 the ground. The people, seeing no way to escape, had no alterna
 tive but to die patiently. Nobody could, without great grief, see
 the oxen and sheep drowning; for there were such numbers of
 them, that, afar off, one would have thought them to be rocks
 in the sea: but, seeing them swimming, and hearing them bleating
 and bellowing, one would have thought them to be a storm and
 hissing winds.
 A rich farmer, and father of seven children, being involved
 in the flood, and thinking the danger less than it was, went about
 to save some of his best goods, but, seeing the waters to increase,
 he forsook all, and went to save one of his children, whom he
 loved best; but the waters followed him so close, that all he
 could do was to get upon the roof of his house. Among the
 children was a little one sleeping in a cradle, which, being made
 of close boards, did swim upon the waters about three miles, and
 the child was taken up alive and sound. The hay and corn
 stacks swam like ships upon the waves, and pigeons were seen
 upon the stacks which the waters carried away. The conies
 being driven out of their holes, had got upon the backs of swim
 ming sheep. A shepherd, about to gather his sheep into the fold,
 being followed by the flood, ran for his life, and climbed a high
 tree, where seeing his sheep bleating in the water, he tore his
 hair, smote his breast, and lifted his hands and eyes to Heaven,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 167
 and prayed for mercy: and, after all his sheep had perished, and
 himself nearly, with extreme cold and hunger, he was at last
 taken up in a boat sent to relieve the distressed.
 DEVASTATIONS OF THE WATERS IN THE NEIGH
 BORHOOD OF BRISTOL AND THE WEST
 OF ENGLAND
But here we must speak of Bristol, one of the chiefest cities
 of England. The same day of that inundation, the sea, breaking
 into a great channel, did presently overflow the country with such
 quickness and violence, that it covered the valleys and smaller
 hills, so that nothing but utter ruin was expected. Many entire
 houses were turned upside down, and carried away by the flood.
 The barns, full of corn, hay, &c. were overthrown, and abundance
 of people of all sorts, and cattle, were carried away with the
 flood. The merchants of London, Bristol, &c. suffered an incal
 culable loss in commodities provided for the fair, then near at
 hand; the most part of them being carried away by the flood, and
 the rest were so spoiled that the owners could not tell what to do
 with them.
 A gentleman dwelling between Barnstaple and Bristol, and
 about two leagues from the sea, on going in the morning to over
 see his grounds, saw the peril that threatened, and ran back to
 his house to convey the sad news to his wife and servants. While
 they were endeavoring to pack up the most valuable of their
 goods, the water came about the house so fast, that they only
 thought of saving their lives; and the gentleman, with his wife
 and children, went upon the roof of the house. Although noth
 ing appeared to them but inevitable death, the gentleman came
 down to endeavor to secure a small trunk, in which were papers
 of much value; and, while he was busied fastening the trunk to
 a manger, the waves beat so against the house, that it fell to the
 ground; and wife, children, and servants, were swallowed in the
 ruin. The gentleman caught hold of a piece of timber, and was
 carried away about half a league, where he reached a mountain,
 and once more found himself on dry ground. Half dead with
 grief and fear, he sat bewailing the fate of his family, when the
 little trunk, with the manger to which it was tied, came floating
 near the spot, and, having drawn this to land, it was all he saved
 of his property.
 THE EFFECTS OF THE INUNDATION IN NORFOLK
 AND THE EASTERN COUNTIES
 It happened at the same time, near Markland in the county of
 Norfolk, that two thieves, who had stolen some cattle, perceiving
 that the water had overtopped the dikes, were compelled to save
168
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 themselves by speed. Thus, out of their wickedness, arose a
 great good: for they hurried to the next town, and caused the
 sexton to ring the bell, and the cry of “Water! water I” to be
 made in the streets. The inhabitants being, for the most part,
 asleep, were much terrified, on waking, to hear the alarm. Some
 climbed the tower of the church—others went about to defend
 and fence their houses—others, hearing it to be a flood only,
 laughed, and said those who caused the alarm deserved to be
 punished. But they presently altered their language. Their
 laughing was turned to mourning. Every one was using all
 means to save himself, his wife, his children, and most precious
 property. Seeing that there was no possibility of diverting the
 current, they retired to the tops of their houses in a lamentable
 fright; and others ran to a hill near the town; while numbers
 were left to drown.
 The following day the houses were seen half under water;
 the people from the upper windows, from the roofs and steeple,
 crying for help; while others were endeavoring to save them
 selves on floating rafters. Horses tied to their mangers were all '
 suffocated. Cattle, as many as could be, were driven to Trewhill,
 which was, at length, so encompassed with water, that without
 boats there was no access to it. Thus, men and beasts, which had
 taken refuge on this hill, were about to perish, had not some
 shepherds brought boats from a distance laden with provisions,
 and thus supplied them until the waters retired again, and the
 dikes were made good.
 THE ASTROLOGICAL INFLUENCE BY WHICH THIS
 AWFUL FLOOD WAS ACCOMPANIED
 Astrologers will be very solicitous to learn by what signal
 influence such a terrible catastrophe was attended; and I trust
 that I shall be able to fully satisfy them upon this point. Certain
 it is, that the ordinary aspects of the planets would, in no respect,
 be sufficient to account for it: we must, therefore, have recourse
 to those of the extraordinary kind; and of these the appearance
 of comets is that which first claims attention. Upon consulting
 ‘
 my astronomical records relative to the fatal period which has
 been described, I find that one of the most powerful of those
 numerous comets which belong to the solar system appeared at
 the latter end of the year 1606. It was then approaching to
 wards its perihelion, which it passed on the 26th of October,
 1607. Its descending node, the transit of which was made on the
 10th or 11th of December, is in the 21st degree of Scorpio: and
 thus, a little more than a month previous to the inundation of
 England, the comet was in the watery triplicity. The motion of
 this comet is retrograde; and its period is nearly seventy-six
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 169
 years. Ten years* hence it will again return to its perihelion:
 and, whoever may live to see its effects, they will certainly be
 serious, and very awful, if it should happen to pass its descending
 node in April or May, or its ascending node in October or
 November.
 As Nostradamus does not point out the astrological signs
 from which his prediction was made, we are unable to come to
 an opinion upon what his foresight was grounded. It is certain
 that the comet which appeared at the time of the flood had been
 seen in the year I531, and previously in the year 1456; and that,
 in the former instance, the eastern parts of the German terri
 tories on the Danube, and, in the latter, most parts of Holland,
 were dreadfully inundated. Whether, therefore, the prophet
 foresaw that similar consequences would be experienced in
 England, as its next return, we can only conjecture: but certain
 it is that the prophecy was awfully verified.
 RAPHAEL
 RAPHAEL.
 RAPHAEL de Urbino, who, by the consent of mankind, is
 acknowledged to be the prince of modern painters, and often
 styled the “divine Raphael,” as well for the grandeur of his con
 ception as the inimitable graces of his pencil, was born on. Good
 Friday, anno 1483. As a reward for his consummate merit, he
 had hopes of receiving a cardinal’s cap, but, falling ill of a fever,
 death deprived him of the expected honor, on Good Friday,
 1520.1
 'The spring of 1834.
 1'There are today especially in England‘ and America, concerns selling books on
 Atstroltogy claimed to have been written by RAPHAEL"; such as, Raphael’: Astrology,
 e c., e c.
 Again, many magazines, _ublished on the subject of Astrolo y, lead the pen le
 to believe that “Raphael" is ive and writing articles for them. T is is all a pal a le
 he as DR. I_DE LAU1u!N_CE, the author of‘ this book, is the on! livin man who today olds
 in his entire ossesswn all of the Oftglnal works of Rap ael.
 he "Divine Raphael”
 was without oubt the_most marvelous_Astrologer of his time. He was born on Good
 Friday 1483, and he died on Good Friday in the year of 1520: almost 400 years ago.
 Very ew outside of DR. oE LAURENCE, and his advance students in Magic and Mun
 dune Astrology, know that RAPHAEi.'s real name was Mn. R. C. SMITH and he lived at
 75 Castle Street, East Oxford Street, near Berner Street, London, England.
 As stated above, DR. DB LAURENCE holds in his possession all of the original works
 of RAPHAEL and is the authorized publisher of all that was ever written by this _
 marvelous man. This book contains many of R.\PHAEL’s writings and instructions
 on Astrology, also much that was valued in Ptolemy’s Tetrabiblos. Therefore, he who
 has this book in his possession, holds the original instructions of RAP1-iAi‘:i.,‘ the
 Metropolitan Astrologer; and famous Sidral Artist of first.rate eminence. In conse
 quence of what has been stated here, it behooves the student to be careful how he
 invests his money in books claimed to have been written by RAPHAEL unless he knows
 for certain that said books have been edited or published by DR. aE LAURENCE. To
 gain possession of RA1>HAEL’s ori 'nal works, DR. DE LAURENCE spent thousands of
 dollars and years of time and trave in order to be able to give his Students and Disciples
 the benefit of these Ancient Manuscripts. Many spurious and counterfeit books are
 published in America and England by enterprising concerns that have no regard_ for
 anything outside of the money they gain by selling books claimed to have been written
 by the old Masters. Therefore, let it be known that DR. DB LAURENCE holds all of the
 original Manuscripts ever written by any of the old Masters of worth; _for DR. DE
 LAURENCE is well able financiall to gain possession of any rare Manuscript or_ work
 that he desires and those who uy books through this firm can depend upon it that
 they will always get an authentic and ofiicial publication.—The Publishers.
170
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 OLIVER CROMWELL
 THE 3d of September was a remarkable day in the history
 of Oliver Cromwell. On that day, 1650, he gave the Scots,
 whom he hated and despised, a total overthrow at the battle of
 Dunbar. On that day twelvemonth, be defeated Charles the
 Second at Worcester; and on that day, in the year 1658, he gave
 up the ghost, in the midst of one of the greatest storms that was
 ever known in‘England.
£3trological fragmentg
 BY HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS OLIVE
 OF CUMBERLAND
FRAGMENT THE FIRST
 SoME of the most celebrated philosophers of old were united
 in opinion, that the hosts of the firmament were the harbingers
 of good and evil below. Seth, the father of Astrology, left sev
 eral mementos of his scientific researches, which were engraven
 on stone, and which laid the foundation of this part of occult
 171
172
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 science. Thus, from an era nearly coeval with the origin of the
 world, we have evidence that the patriarchal sages esteemed this
 knowledge an attainment of the most desirable and magnificent
 kind. There can be very little ground for doubting but that
 Joseph, in Egypt, then the chief seat of learning, was enabled,
 by his skill in Astrology, to acquire the favor of Pharaoh by pro
 viding for the emergencies of the Egyptian state, in the manner
 recorded in Holy Writ. The insight into the future destiny of
 his sons, whom he judged of, and blessed, previously to his death,
 was also, as we may very well believe, drawn by his father Jacob
 from the configurations of the heavenly bodies at the times of
 their several nativities.
 States and empires, at their ungenial influence, are crumbled
 into dust; and by their smile the most humble are raised to the
 loftiest summit of earthly glory ! Thus, continually on their
 course, they perform the great and extraordinary offices allotted
 to them severally by the Supreme, with a diligence, obedience,
 and promptitude, beyond the finite comprehension of mortal man.
 How ignorant and prejudiced, then, must that man be, and how
 crude that understanding, which condemns a science in which
 the wisest and greatest king of the earth, even Solomon, de
 lighted ! Of all studies, Occult Philosophy requires the most
 temperate and industrious habits of life; for not an hour passes
 that does not produce some interesting variation in the heavens,
 and some consequent changes on the earth. But, to pursue the
 motions of the planets with effect, a philosopher must let no
 opportunity escape him of observation and improvement.
 Comets, too, have been seen to be the forerunners sometimes
 of especial good; but more frequently of excessive evil. Thus, a
 comet or blazing star may be presumed to have guided the magi,
 or wise men of the east, to Bethlehem, as recorded with solemnity
 in the New Testament. The downfall of many states has been
 foreshown by prodigious sights seen in the air. Jerusalem,
 Egypt, Rome, and many other regions, declare as much; and,
 indeed, all strange and unusual apparitions of this nature are
 generally followed by direful effects, such as convulsions of the
 earth, insurrections, wars, and change of dynasties! A comet
 appeared just at the time that our unfortunate Charles of Eng
 land was defeated by Cromwell: and, in 1819, a comet appeared
 in the summer previous to the death of the excellent Duke of
 Kent, and of His Majesty George the Third.
 IN astrological studies, the situation, motion, and aspect of
 the moon should be minutely observed, as her approach to the
 other planets has great effect on mundane affairs. It is also
 known, that the power of the angles is varied by the situation
 of the lunar orb: and, as these are the places which are referred
 to concerning the fortunate and unfortunate periods of a person's
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 173
 life, when rays of a beneficent tendency are diffused from them,
 and the significator at a birth is propitious, and well degnified,
 much good may be augured.
 The ascendant, in a nativity, is a very important quarter of
 the heavens, as it signifies the state of health and disposition of
 the individual. The seventh and tenth houses are also extremely
 powerful, with good planets seated in them; but, occupied by
 FRAGMENT THE SECOND
 evil planets, every calamity is threatened. If the fortunes, in a
 nativity, fall in the tenth house, and the moon has good latitude,
 and is free from affliction, the native will become eminently
 great. Several planets being in sympathy, and terms of amity,
 it declares that success will distinguish a person whose nativity
 is so marked. The moon, in the second house, has been deemed
 a token of mutable fortune; but I am of opinion, if she be in
 sextile or trine with Jupiter or Venus, the person will enjoy
 great wealth in the decline of life.
 The moon is considered to be the significator of the people in
 every kingdom or state, and the sun is that of the head, or ruler,
 of such state. Thus, when the sun or moon is eclipsed in houses
 which are occupied by the ascendants of any kingdom, and are
 in square at the same time to Saturn or Mars, much dissatisfac
 tion may be expected to prevail in the state signified by the
 constellation; and more so, if Mars and Saturn be in conjunc
 tion or opposition.
174
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 FRAGMENT THE THIRD
 MEN of rare and excellent endowments have frequently
 declared that the progress and signification of the planetary
 world were the most useful studies of mankind; as, by reason
 ably comprehending the intentions of the Great Supreme, a
 religious adoration animates the mind of the astrologer, which
 becomes convinced of the omnipotence of God by the miracles
 that have proceeded from the Almighty hand, causing him to
 exclaim, How infinite are thy bounteous blessings upon earth !—
 How truly wonderful is the motion and influence of the planets,
 whose operations regulate the destiny of empires, and produce
 the happiness or misery of mortals!
 In all ages Occult Philosophy has had its champions as well as
 antagonists; and this will be the case in every age of the world,
 as the studies and inclinations of men vary: and most are aware,
 that there is no such thing as human perfection upon earth. The
 greatest of philosophers, and the best of men, have been often
 subject to errors. Nor is a liability to mistakes confined to mere
 philosophers; but medical characters and the most learned in the
 law are not free from human misconception, or able to relieve
 themselves from absurdities which have been frequently attached
 to their professional conduct.
 That the fate of nations may be more accurately understood
 than the fate of individuals, I am persuaded, as the planets, in
 their progress, not only operate on the seasons, but upon the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 175
 kingdoms and people under their sympathy or antipathy, never
 was a kingdom, state, or great religious sect founded, but some
 extraordinary assemblage or configuration of the planetary
 bodies has signified the event. The greatest mutations that have
 ever happened in any portion of the globe have always been
 evinced within a short time after the planets have changed their
 triplicities. To confirm this, I will observe that, under the fiery
 trigon, the Roman empire was beheld in its proudent glory: and,
 as soon as the earthly trigon commenced, that celebrated empire
 began to decline; and her ruin was effected by Saturnine people,
 who made dreadful inroads upon her territories and rights. But,
 when the watery trigon prevailed under Scorpio, then the empire
 of Rome was disabled from effecting its own liberty and inde
 pendence. About the second time of the congress of these plan
 ets, Mahomet commenced his fatal career, which leads me to
 consider, that the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter, in De
 cember, I82I, in the fiery triplicity, will occasion great wars in
 the eastern hemisphere, and extraordinary changes of dynasties
 in several countries under their influence.
 So great are the power and extent of the Planets considered
 by Ancient and wise Philosophers, that they declared celestial
 bodies have the most prevailing efficacy. St. Thomas Aquinas
 confirms this in his book De Fato, assuring us that everything
 upon earth receives a certain qualification from the Planets, as
 the beams of the celestial bodies, being animated, bestow admir
 able gifts and blessings upon mankind, impressing upon the
 human mind the most astonishing genius; and to this heavenly
 influence is to be reasonably attributed the surprising inventions
 of men from one generation to another!
 In one part of his writings, Nostradamus declares that Anti
 christ shall arise in the north, of amazing craft and contention,
 about the eve of the millennium: and he further declares, that the
 Kings of the earth will be in alliance to war against the liberty of
 mankind; but that the power of the Supreme shall be a rushing
 and impetuous torrent, and wash from the surface of the earth
 the ambitious and sanguinary injustice of the guilty! It may be
 inferred, that the sixth trumpet, named in the Revelations, has
 sounded; and, by a serious computation, that the fifth vial of
 wrath has been poured upon the earth!
 If the secret prophecies of the Hebrews upon the Revelations
 are properly understood, the children of Israel will assemble
 about the year 1849, and rebuild Jerusalem; and a golden era will
 commence at the close of this century, the promised millennium.
 _
 But, ere the commencement of this peaceful season, there will be
 manifested upon earth wars, oppression, revolutions, earthquakes,
 and famine, and every earthly distress, which will destroy one
 third of the living upon the earth.* The great assemblage of the
 ‘Rev. ix. 18.
176
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 planets in the eastern finiture of the heavens in 1821, I consider,
 were the celestial messengers of the century having commenced,
 FRAGMENT THE FOURTH
 which will usher in the world's great sabbath; which will be seen
 a rule of theocracy, that will render all the princes of the earth,
 after a certain season, the parents of their joyful people, by their
 becoming the chosen servants of their God.
 A SINGULAR PREDICTION OF AN ASTROLOGER
 JoHANNES MARTINIAs, born in Belgia, was a skilful painter;
 and being in Italy, he was told by an astrologer, that “when he
 came to Geneva, he should then die.” He gave not much credit
 to this prediction; but it so fell out, that he was sent for to Bern,
 by Thomas Schopsius, a physician, on purpose to illustrate the
 jurisdiction of Bern by chorographical tables.
 He had now almost finished the designed tables, and was
 entered upon that which contains Geneva; when, while he was
 laying down the situation, and writing the name of that city, he
 was suddenly seized upon with the plague, which, at that time,
 furiously raged thereabouts, and died anno 1577, in the month of
 August.
#lanetarp £rebictions
 BY THE ROYAL MERLIN
 ACCORDING to their manifold and diversified virtues and
 influences upon sublunary things, are the celestial orbs distin
 guished.
 *
 Mars war provokes, and vengeance dire,
 Darting towards Sol his furious ire;
 Jove, with benignance, justice gives;
 Venus with love and beauty lives;
 Saturn, superior, wields his powers,
 And fortune's joys or miseries showers;
 The changing moon, inconstant e'er,
 Doth ofttimes female greatness bear;
 And Mercury, a subtle god,
 With good and evil blends his rod,—
 A wary messenger of state,
 To happiness or woe create.
 177
178
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Lo! ere Saturn has reached ten degrees in Gemini, the com
 merce of London will be perplexed by the faithless policy of the
 northern states! Russia, also, seen to be extending north and
 south its eagle wings, will have much to do. “A multitude of
 business,” it is said in the scriptures, “produces a dream.”*
 England will act prudently to keep a navy riding upon the Brit
 ish ,ocean. France has a traitorous measure in agitation, to
 countervail the designs of which will require the greatest fore
 sight and energy in the southern hemisphere. The significations
 of the heavenly bodies threaten Egypt with insurrection, and a
 like effect may be expected in our West India plantations.
 The Pope will soon be upon the theatre of jesuitical duplicity;
 and Italy will, in all probability, be a scene of confusion. Saturn's
 progress through Gemini will affect not only the courts of law at
 home, but; in the northern cabinets, much disquietude will be
 occasioned, _and deep debates in the political departments of Eng
 land will most likely ensue! A chasm in a certain administration,
 where it is least expected, will be heard of. The laurels of a
 celebrated hero will ere long begin to droop, and the cypress wave
 over his tomb :—
 Ah! what avails the tinselled show
 That decorates the house of woe?
 Since fleeting greatness dies away,
 And death his triumph does displayl
 Another, also, who will be lamented by but few, will, it is
 apprehended, soon submit to the mandates of fate! A period
 approaches that will humiliate one of sage appearance, and
 exceedingly great renown! In vain will be each secret consulta
 tion: for certain characters will be released from enthraldom,
 and the secrets of past times will check the progress of oppres
 sion in a quarter where only the semblance of virtue is discover
 able!
 Wonder shall soon on wonder rise,
 And royal deeds mankind surprise!
 The oak, expanding from a rock,
 Undaunted meets the tempest’s shock:
 And Neptune wields his trident high,
 While Venus does his car supply.
 ‘Eccles. v. 3.
 '
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 2. £rophetic 3fable
 BY THE ROYAL MERLIN
 A shock from heaven will descend,
 And the spreading branches rend
 Of a high tree—the root is taken,
 And the locusts part have eaten I
 A serpent crawling up the steep
 Will undermine, and basely leap,
 But falls still lower—down he goes,
 And around him terror throws:
 Whilst a lion just shall pause,
 And uphold the ancient laws:
 And if such lion e'er should see
 Each evil act of treachery,
 And provide a blessed solace,
 In every heart he'd find a place.
 ADDRESS TO THE FAIR SEX
 179
 YE fair, attend! the field again is your own; for love will now
 prove triumphant! Taurus, the house of Venus, is relieved from
 the chilling influence of Saturn, who proceeds to the throne of
 law, and will there soon manifest his iron rule. Cupid is inviting
 to hymeneal joys. The fair of Britain once more repoint his
 fatal arrows. Delighted with the season, the rosy boy seeks the
180
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Idalian groves, as Venus, from her roseate bowers, welcomes his
 return, declaring that the rose and violet are once more entwined
 to decorate the shrine of love and beauty.
 See upon the crystal tide,
 The birds of Venus sportive glidel
 Maids, your temples bind with care,
 And of fatal love beware:
 As all around is bright and gay,
 Now plodding Saturn is away.
 From the configurations, there is reason to expect, that there
 will be extraordinary perplexity in one or two states. Russia is
 plotting, and will soon spread forth her eagle wing! Her navy
 is preparing, and important political events may be expected to
 claim the attention of all Europe :—
 Time rolls on, and dire oppression
 Shall receive a serious lessonl
 The mighty lever takes a turn
 Again the flames will fiercely burn
 Upon the borders of the north;
 From thence, proceeding to the south:
 And eastern news of direful kind
 Shall cause amazement—mare behind!
 Yet accusations shall enforce,
 And reveal a venal source
 Of dire ambition—on a rock
 Shall be felt the eastern shockl
 Amid the ocean one will go,
 And like Napoleon sink with woe;
 Less deserving—his condition
 Was for fleeting joys—ambitionl
 The dice will rattle, and the loss
 Will one on shore of quicksand toss;
 A venal hero seals his fate—
 A blot to honor and estate.
 Thus speak the harbingers on high! Time, on its rapid
 motion, will, I fear, fatally illustrate the rest.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Qbbserbatinns am: firehittiuna
 BY THE ROYAL MERLIN
 181
 IT will soon be an important period for Great Britain; but
 she must not be too subservient to the eagle of the north! Be
 prepared for political changes in America about this period, as a
 secret plan is agitating in that rising country! Perhaps the eagle
 of A amay be concerned in the operations of the American
 republic! Its policies are subtle and not very advantageous to
 England :—
 The midnight cabinet is held,
 Where great Napoleon once dwell’d:
 His shade, as Denmark's, may arise,
 And great events mankind surprise!
 A comet bright will soon appear—
 Then mark the end of this strange year
 The Turk pursues his sanguine way
 Where Mars terrific shall display
 A direful scene! Poor Greeks, you fly
 Till heaven assistance does supply
 From Mercy’s court!
 Egypt will know trouble, and some ‘sudden convulsions of the
 southern world will soon be manifested.
182
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 #rophetic 38ecollectiong
 BY THE ROYAL MERLIN
 The book of past times will be unsealed!—A phoenix rises out
 of her own ashes!—England is amazed, and Europe lost in
 exceeding conjecture!
 A statesman, from motives of constitutional integrity, resigns
 his place; and Mercury elevates a gownsman to fleeting great
 116SS.
 As things are situated in the starry heaven above, it is to be
 hoped, that most princes of Europe will remain stationary in
 their own dominions, and keep a vigilant look out as to their own
 settlements and colonies abroad; for it is apprehended, that the
 overbearing policy of some states will induce them, as Jacob did
 of old, to steal another's dominion in the western world. The
 heavenly aspects signify this, and more than it is wise and
 prudent to name. Time is rolling rapidly away, and wields his
 iron sceptre over all!
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Time proceeds with rapid strides,
 And o'er fallen empires glides!
 While infant liberty appears,
 And, by its smile auspicious, cheers.
 Oh, Austria! in vain thy care,
 Of fallen liberty bewarel
 Short is seen despotic sway;
 And mark the horrors of its day
 Civil discord! Oh, England! soon
 Will be evinced a tyrant’s doom
 On foreign plains!
 And thou wilt mourn with sympathy,
 And check in time thy selfish course.
 Necessity shall this enforce—
 Two eagles seldom do agree
 About one nest and sovereignty,
 Each covets most the sun's bright ray:
 Thus, two eagles, in their day,
 Shall peck and fight, till, overcome,
 One his earthly sands has run! Tm‘: ROYAL ME111.m.
 183
 SINGULAR PREDICTION OF THE ASTROLOGER
 “RAPHAEL”
 IN the month of August, 1822, a lady was introduced to this
 gentleman, by means of a friend, and requested to know the
 events which were pending at that period. The artist drew forth
 the horoscope, and informed her that, from the position of the
 heavenly bodies at that instant, he foresaw she would be in
 danger of “taking poison,” through the carelessness of a servant,
 and therefore warned her to be very careful what medicine she
 took for the next six months. The prediction was thought but
 little of at the time, but within six months from that period, the
 Astrologer received a letter in the lady’s own handwriting, stat
 ing “that the cup was actually raised to her lips, when recollecting
 the injunction, she was induced to examine it, and discovered it
 to be poison, delivered by the servant in mistake,” as was fore
 told. A striking proof of the science.
134
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Q firupbety ®£ Q Warp éveriuuz Zlmport
 BY THE CELEBRATED NOSTRADAMUS
 Mars nous menace par la force bellique,
 Septante fois fera la sang respandre,
 Auge et ruine de Yecclesiastique
 Et par ceux qui d'eux rien ne voudront entendre.
 TRANSLATION.
 Mars threatens us from heaven,
 That armies will o'erspread-—
 That in wars ten-times-seven,
 Blood will be freely shed
 In which the rise and fall
 Of priestdom will appear,
 Wrought by those who the call
 Of priests disdain to hear.
 ALTHOUGH I have often foretold long before, says Nostrad
 amus in his preliminary epistle to his son, what hath afterward
 come to pass, and in particular regions, acknowledging all to
 have been done by divine virtue and inspiration, being willing to
 hold my peace by reason of the injury not only to the present
 time, but also of the future, I put them in writing, because the
 kingdoms, sects, and regions, shall be so diametrically opposed,
 that, if I should relate what shall happen hereafter, those of the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 185
 present reigns, sects, religions, and faith, would find it so disa
 greeing with their fancies, that they would condemn that which
 future ages shall find and know to be true.
 Concerning the use he makes of the planet Mars in the predic
 tion we are coming to examine, it will be previously requisite to
 observe what he says in the prefatory epistle as to the said planet.
 Although the planet Mars, says he, makes an end of his course,
 and is come to the end of his last period, nevertheless, he shall
 begin again; and some shall be gathered in Aquarius for many
 years, others in Cancer also, for many years; and now we are
 governed by the moon, and to which, before she hath finished her
 circuit, shall come the sun, and then Saturn: for, according to
 the celestial signs, the reign of Saturn shall come again; so that
 all being calculated, the world draws near to an anaregonic
 revolution.
 OnsERvaTrons OF T111: SPECIAL PROPHECY OF NOSTRADAMUS,
 As To THE RUIN OF ECCLESIASTICAL DESPOTISM
 By the foregoing extracts from the preliminary epistle of our
 prophet, addressed to his son, my wish is to show, first, the
 solemn nature, or spiritual impression under which these astro
 logical predictions were made; and the serious attention to which
 they are consequently entitled. Secondly, I would have it noticed
 how forcibly he alludes to the great periodical revolutions of
 Mars and Saturn, in the said epistle, which, he signifies, are
 bringing about an anaregonic revolution, or finishing catastrophe.
 Having learned, from a spiritual insight during his solitary
 retirement, the prosperities to which the clergy would be raised,
 he perceived the agreement between his intuitive knowledge and
 the language of the stars. He found the danger to the ecclesi
 astical institutions of this part of the world, that, in the end,
 were to arise, as foreshown by some particularly malign aspect
 in the greater revolutions of Mars; but does not point out the
 special position on which his judgment is founded, and conse
 quently, not the express era to which his prophecy alludes.
 His first remark is, that a threat of great armies, by which
 many battles will be fought, and very much blood shed, is denoted
 by a revolution or station of Mars at some future period: for we
 are to understand the term seventy wars or battles, a great
 number, or long continued succession, and not any precise num
 ber: as, when it is said in scripture, we are to forgive our ene
 mies, not only seven times, but seventy times seven; that is, an
 infinite number of times.
 In the concluding part of the prophecy, we are taught that,
 during this succession of wars, the rise and fall of priestdom will
 be accomplished; and this, consequently, implies, that a very long
186
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 period is comprehended in the prediction. Nor can it be one
 aspect of the planet that is here taken to indicate so extensive
 and momentous a dissolution as is portended; for two contrary
and successive effects are presaged: namely, the auge, or aug
 menting and increasing power of the clergy: and the other, their
 rum.
 Now it is certain, from the latter clauses of the prophecy, that
 the wars and times alluded to have not yet been witnessed; for
 the writer says that the ruin of ecclesiastical predominance shall
 be wrought by those who will not hear anything that the clergy
 preach; and this is the strong feature of the prediction, as it
 regards the present signs of the times.
 Every reader will be aware of the daily augmentation which
 the army of infidelity is acquiring, and of the disgrace which is
 constantly being brought upon religion by the administration of
 it being intrusted to depraved and worthless characters. Every
 one knows that this sorrowful truth is not confined to one church,
 nor even to one country, but that, on the contrary, it is extending
 itself throughout what is commonly termed all Christendom.
 Every eye must foresee that awful consequences will necessarily
 result; and, when the comparison of the present aspects is made
 with the words of Nostradamus, every one will be looking for
 ward with apprehension to the dismal times which he has pre
 dicted.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 A SPECIAL
 Prediction In The Prophetic Almanack, 1824
 Literally Accomplished In The Breaking Out Of
 THE WAR WITH THE BIRMANESE NATION
 187
 ON coming to notice this fulfilment of a direct and special
 prediction, it requires to be said, that it was made at least six
 months before the unexpected blow was struck by the sovereign
 of the Birmans. The following extracts contain the words of
 the prophecy :
 Our eastern possessions are not, as it seems, free from com
 motion; and I am mistaken if a more troublesome revolt is not
 breaking out than we have ever had to quell in that quarter.
 And in the subsequent part of the work, laying still greater stress
 upon the subject, the author says, I have before had occasion to
 observe something about a refractory spirit having manifested
 itself in the country of the Nabobs; and in this month (that is,
 November) there are signs which seem to bear a similar con
 struction. If ‘we could import as much virtue as we do luxury
 from our remote world, it might be well worth our possession;
 but, monopolized as Indian commodities are, we have few evils
 that we ought more to desire to be rid of than a footing in the
168
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 oriental lands. Ireland is of far more real worth to England
 than the empire of the Great Mogul could ever, with China to
 boot, be made. Ireland is in the most abject condition, for want
 of such a government as we hold, in Leadenhall Street, over
 India; and it is much to be implored, that some special relief
 may be devised for the amelioration of the unfortunate condition
 of our sister island.
 EXTRAORDINARY VISION IN A DREAM, RELATED
 BY DR. HERVEY
 DR. HERVEY, who was afterwards fellow of the College of
 Physicians in London, being then a young man, setting out upon
 his travels, and coming to Dover, with several others, produced
 his pass to the governor, as the rest of those who were with him
 also did ; but the governor told him he must not go, for he had a
 commission to stop him.
 The doctor was surprised, and begged to know what he had
 done, that he should detain him? The governor told him, it was
 his will to have it so; the reason he should know hereafter.
 The packet-boat hoisted sail in the evening, and set off, it
 being then very fair, with all the doctor's companions in it ;‘ but,
 ere long, a sudden storm arose, the packet-boat overset, and all
 the passengers were drowned; the sad news of which was the
 next day brought to Dover. Then the governor told the doctor
 the reason of his stopping him, though he had no real knowledge
 of him, only by name; but that, the night before he came there,
 he had a perfect vision in a dream of Dr. Hervey’s coming to
 pass over to Calais, and had warning to stop him from going!
 This the governor affirmed to the doctor; and he blessed his good
 angel for the care of him.
 This story the doctor often related to his friends in the
 metropolis.
_
 CHAPTER XX
 Qstrulugital fiutitez Q1171 ifirehittinns
 WRITTEN IN SEPTEMBER, 1824
 Calculated From The New Moon Of August 24
 I
 BY RAPHAEL
 AT the above lunation, the positions of the heavenly bodies
 are remarkable, the undoubted precursors of many strange
 events: the moon, after her conjunction with the sun, applies to
 the square of Saturn, lord of the houses of wealth and honor,
 while she claims prerogative over the eighth house! Hence will
 follow sickness, danger, and mortality; jealousy and separations
 among married classes, and endless disappointments amongst the
 votaries of Venus. The physician, the sexton, and the under
 taker, prosper. The slow but sure influence of the greater infor
 tune is now dispensed upon the youthful, the grave, and the gay.
 Each submits to the imperious mandates of the destroyer. A
 lady of rank and fortune meets disgrace, and many death; while,
 on_ the other hand, both riches and honor are most remarkably
 showered upon the worthless and undeserving. In families of
 rank, casualties cause deep and unfeigned sorrow. Sudden news
 189
190
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 arrives: conjecture errs. The fiery Mars again begins to rear his
 standard; but the milder influence of Jupiter quells the rising
 storm. A malicious attempt, or a slanderous libel, will soon
 occupy the public attention. But justice may be blindfolded,
 while a horrible catastrophe awaits one who has long been the
 favorite of fortune.
 In foreign parts appear storm and hurricane. The fierce
 tornado and the sweeping blast destroy both lives and property.
 The slave is factious, his owner unbending; murder, if not pre
 vented by milder policy, soon follows.
 At home, the harvest flourishes; the industrious farmer once
 more rejoices in the bounteous gifts of Ceres. Money is plen
 tiful, but yet confined to few. Many projects of magnitude are
 discussed, many fail.
 Time throws his veil over the rest. But enough has already
 been spoken to prove the validity of the science!
 PREDICTION RELATIVE TO CAMBYSES,
 KING OF PERSIA
 CAMBYSEs, king of Persia, was told by the Oracle, that he
 should die at Ecbatana; he, therefore, concluding that he should
 finish his life at Ecbatana, in Media, did studiously avoid going
 *
 thither: but when, by the falling of his sword out of its scabbard,
 and his falling upon it, he was deadly wounded in his thigh,
 being then in Syria, he inquired the name of the place; and being
 informed it was Esbatana, he acknowledged it was his fate to die
 there, and that he had hitherto mistaken the name of the place.
'ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 191
 ASTROLOGICAL CAUSES OF THE DREADFUL STORM
 IN THE NIGHT OF SEPTEMBER 7, 1824
 Planets' Places, Sept. 8, 1824, oh. 30m. Past Midnight
 # II. 55. V3 R. b 7. 44. II. 24 4. 20. Sl. 3 19.47. m.
 9 26. 17. m. # 12. =. ) 9. 38. 9é. Q 15. 13. m2
 Ascendant 22. O. Co. Mid-heaven 23. O. 96
 THE above is the scheme of the planetary positions at the time
 of a most dreadful storm, and which plainly shows the wonderful
 works of God.
 The watery sign, Cancer, ascending; the moon in Pisces,
 another watery sign, and applying to a trine of Mars in Mundo,
 who is in Scorpio, also of the watery trigon. The moon is also
 applying to the opposition of the sun, and separated from the
 square of Saturn in Gemini. Therefore, all these things con
 sidered, it was no wonder the heavens were so much agitated.
 I have often observed that, when the moon is aspected by
 Venus, from moist signs, she has generally produced rain; but
 if from the dignities of Mercury, much wind has followed.
 In the present instance, the next after full, the moon meets
 the opposition of Venus.
192
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE HIEROGLYPHICAL PREDICTION OF THE DEATH
 OF THE LATE KING OF FRANCE
 BY RAPHAEL
 THE above hieroglyphical illustration appeared in a former
 edition of this work, and was actually sent to the engraver nearly
 two months previous to the death of the King of France, as can
 be proved on _oath,—a striking proof of the possibility which
 exists of foreknowing the fate of empires and individuals by the
 language of heaven, which never deceives the expert Astrologer.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 PREDICTION RELATIVE TO THE FRENCH
 REVOLUTION
 193
 The Following Remarkable Passage Is .Taken From The Com
 plete Magazine For October, 1764, p. 368
 THEY (the parliaments of France) await the moment to
 strike the blow that shall lay the fabric of despotism in ruins!
 When this blow is struck, the effects of it will be equal to those
 of Magic. The cottage will be put on a level with the palace; the
 peasant with the prince; ranks shall be confounded. Titles, dis
 tinctions, and birth shall tumble into an undistinguished heap of
 confusion; a new moral creation shall strike the view of an
 admiring universe; and France, like old Rome in her first flights
 to empire, shall appear with the sceptre of universal dominion
 bourgeoning in her hands. Out of universal confusion, order
 shall arise; the great of nature’s creating will assume their places;
 and the great, by title and accident, will drop despised into the
 common mass of the people.
 WALTER, EARL OF ’ATHOL
 WALTER, Earl of Athol, conspired the murder of James I.
 king of Scotland, in hopes to be crowned, being encouraged by
 certain sorcerers, whom he kept about him, who foretold “he
 should be crowned ;” and “crowned” he was, but not with the
194
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 crown of the kingdom, but of red hot iron, clapped upon his
 head; which was one of the tortures by which, at once, he ended
 his wicked days and traitorous designs.
 Upon this occurrence the interesting romance of the Spaewife.
 is founded.
 PRODIGY PRESAGING THE DESTRUCTION
 OF THE JEWS
 JosEPHUs sets down this as a prodigy presaging the destruc
 tion of the Jews. “There was,” saith he, “one Jesus, son of
 Ananias, a countryman of mean birth, four years before the war
 against the Jews, at a time when all was in deep peace and tran
 quillity, who coming up to the Feast of Tabernacles, according
 to the custom, began on a sudden to cry out and say, ‘A voice
 from the east, a voice from the west, a voice from the four winds,
 a voice against Jerusalem and the Temple, a voice against bride
 grooms and brides, a voice against all the people.’ Thus he went
 about all the narrow lanes, crying night and day: and being
 apprehended and scourged, he still continued the same language
 under the blows, without any other word.
 “And they upon this, supposing (as it was) that it was some
 divine motion, brought him to the Roman prefect: and by his
 appointment being wounded by whips, and his flesh torn to the
 bones, he neither entreated nor shed a tear; but to every blow, in
 a most lamentable manner and mournful note, cried out, ‘Woe,
 woe to Jerusalem!’ This he continued to do till the time of the
 siege, seven years together: and at last, to his extraordinary note
 of woe to the city, the people, the temple, adding, ‘Woe also to
 me!’ a stone from the battlements fell down upon him and killed
 him !”—Jos. Jewish Wars, I. 7. P. 738.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 PREDICTION OF A SCOTCH SEER
 195
 IN the latter part of the 15th century, there lived in Scotland
 a man named Thomas Lermouth, who was considered as a prod
 igy, for the gift of foretelling future events. He had foretold,
 many ages before it happened, the union of England and Scot
 land, in the ninth degree of Bruce’s blood, with the succession
 of Bruce himself to the crown, being yet a child.
 The day before the death of Alexander, he told the Earl of
 March, that before the next day at noon, such a tempest should
 blow as Scotland had not felt many years before. The next
 morning proving clear and serene, the Earl rallied Thomas with
 the fallacy of his prediction. “Noon is not yet past,” replied
 Lermouth; and soon after arrived a messenger with news of the
 king’s sudden death. “This,” cried the seer, “is the tempest I
 foresaw,” and such, indeed, it eventually proved.
 EXTRAORDINARY WARNINGS FROM JosEP11us T111: HISTORIAN
 _I0sEPHUs relates, that a little before the destruction of the
 temple of Jerusalem, there were heard in the night voices crying
 out, “Let us leave this place, woe and destruction is here!”
196
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ExTRAORDINARY AND FATAL DREAMS PRESAGING THE DEATH
 OF KING WILLIAM RUFUS
 THE night before King William the Second was killed, a
 certain monk dreamed that he saw the king gnaw the image of
 Christ crucified with his teeth; and that as he was about to bite
 away the legs of the same image, Christ with his feet spurned
 him down to the ground; and that, as he lay on the earth, there
 came out of his mouth a flame of fire, with abundance of smoke.
 This being related to the king by Robert Fitz-Hammon, he made
 a jest of it, saying, “This monk would fain have something for
 his dream; go, give him a hundred shillings, but bid him look that
 he dream more auspicious dreams hereafter.”
 Also the same night the king himself dreamed, that the veins
 of his arms were broken, and that the blood issued out in great
 abundance; and many other like passages there were, by which it
 seems he had friends somewhere (as well as Julius Caesar) that
 did all they could to give him warning: but that as Caesar's, so his
 evil genius would not suffer him to take it; for King William,
 notwithstanding he was forewarned by many signs, would go out
 a-hunting in the New Forest: yet, something moved with the
 many presages, he stayed within all the forenoon; but about
 dinner-time an artificer came, and brought him six cross-bow
 arrows, very strong and sharp, whereof four he kept to himself,
 and the other two he delivered to Sir Walter Tyrrell, a knight of
 Normandy, his bow-bearer, saying, “Here, Tyrrell, take you two,
 for you know how to shoot them to good purpose.” And so
 having at dinner drank more liberally than his custom, as it were
 in contempt of presages, out he rides to the New Forest, where
 Sir Walter Tyrrell shooting at a deer, at a place called Charing
 ham, the arrow glanced against a tree, or, as some say, grazed
 upon the back of the deer, and flying forward, hit the king upon
 the breast, with which he instantly fell down dead.
 Thus died William Rufus, in the forty-third year of his age,
 and the thirteenth of his reign; his body was drawn in a collier's
 cart, with one horse, to the city of Winchester, where the day
 following he was buried in the cathedral church of St. Swithin.
 ExTRAORDINARY DREAM To MARGARET, QUEEN OF FRANCE
 |
 THE night before Henry the Second, King of France, was
 slain, Queen Margaret his wife dreamed that she saw her hus
 band's eye put out. There were jousts and tournaments at that
 time, into which the queen besought her husband not to enter,
 because of her dream, but he was resolved, and there did things
 worthy of himself. When almost all was now done, he would
 needs run the tilt with a knight who refused him; his name was
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 197
 Montgomery; the king was bent upon it; they shivered their
 lances in the course, and a splinter of one of them took the king
 so full in the eye, that he thereby received his death wound.
 WARNING OF DEATH TO THE THEBAN TYRANT
 ACEBIAs, the Theban tyrant, being at a feast, where were
 present all kinds of merriment and mirth, there was brought to
 him a letter, wherein he was certified of a plot that was upon his
 life: he never read it, but gave orders, that as a thing serious it
 should be deferred to the morrow, but neglecting that warning,
 he did not live to read it, for he was slain that night,
CHAPTER XXI
 AN ORIGINAL SELECTION
 '
 OF THE MOST
 illlustrious, fiminent, Q1111 Jttemarkable Aliatihities
 BOTH OF THE PAST AND PRESENT TIME
 Including Those Of His Majesty And The Royal Family Of
 England, The Heir To The Throne Of France, Lord Byron,
 Graham The Aeronaut, George Bidder The Calculating Youth,
 The Notorious Harriet Wilson, And Others No Less Worthy Of
 Notice By The Curious Or Scientific Reader; With A Variety Of
 Predictions Relative To The Future Fate of These Extraordi
 nary Individuals, Demonstrating The Actual Possibility Of
 Reading Every Remarkable Event Relative To Our Destiny In
 The Stars Of Heaven,
 BY “RAPHAEL,”
 THE METROPOLITAN ASTROLOGER
 _
 “For centuries after c_enturies_ all branches of learning were either made subser
 vient to Astrology or carried on in close alliance with it: in the east, where it first
 arose, at a perio of very remote antiquity, it still even now holds away. In Europe.
 198
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 199
 and in every part of the world where learning had impressed the human soil, astrology
 reigned supreme until the middle of the seventeenth century. It entered into the coun.
 cils of princes, it guided the policy of nations, and ruled the daily actions of individuals.
 All this is attested by the records of every nation which has a history, and by none more
 fully than by those of England. It may be, therefore # inferred, that the subtle
 spell which had strength to enthral stuff so stern, could have been of no weak or vulgar
 order, but that it was sufficiently potent and refined to interest and amuse even the
 present age.”
PTOLEMY's TETRABIBLos.]
 THE NATIVITY
 OF HIS MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY GEORGE IV.
 £8.43
GEO.4
 REX.
 J%t agg:- SP.
 4762
 <|s?',"
AM
 “Celestial and immortal powers!
 O! aid my pen. What in me is dark
 Illumine: while I presume to treat
 no:
 <
 62
 %|
 *> |
 Of fate and chance and change in sublunary
 Things.”—
 MILTON.
 THE ascendant of this regal geniture is the twenty-sixth
 degree of the celestial sign Virgo; and, according to the ancient
 rules of astrology, the native would be born chiefly under the
 dominion of Mercury, more particularly as that planet rules the
 mid-heaven. But by a more attentive view of the illustrious
 horoscope, it will be discovered, that the nativity is of a singular
 and extraordinary description; for, at the very instant of this
 royal birth, the beneficent planet Venus had just ascended the
 eastern horizon; thus bearing principal rule over the life and
 actions, and affording a striking proof of siderial influence; for
 this benevolent star is the source of every pleasure and elegant
 enjoyment which life affords, but particularly of those depending
 upon the fine arts, music, poetry, and fashionable recreations, in
 which she never fails to render those born under her influence
200
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 most perfect proficients and connoisseurs: while, at the same
 time, she generally makes the native invincible in love, and a
 peculiar favorite with the fair sex.
 The moon in Taurus, in conjunction with Jupiter, in a fixed
 sign of the earthly trigon, in that part of the heavens which the
 ancients termed her exaltation, surrounded by eminent fixed
 stars, and lately separated from a mundane trine of the ascend
 ant, in trine also to Venus, both in zodiac and mundo, most
 excellently forms the mental and intellectual faculties; giving an
 extraordinary genius, a profound and retentive memory, sound
 judgment, together with a capacity for learning of the most
 exalted kind; the whole of which almost every one in the British
 dominions must know to be exactly verified in the present in
 stance. His majesty has also ever been considered remarkable
 for his refinement and classical attainments: and, independent
 of the halo of flattery which is generally visible in the atmos
 phere of princes, he has, moreover, been uniformly remarkable
 for taste, elegance, and polite accomplishments; the never-failing
 characteristic of those who have the rare felicity to be born at a
 time when the benevolent planet Venus is their natal star, or
 ascending at birth in the eastern angle.
 Hail star, by Jove illumed! to thee we owe
 Source of our joy and balm of every woe!
 In fortune's adverse or propitious hour,
 Weshare the blessings of thy bounteous power |
 O but for thee, sweet star, how should we find
 Those generous sympathies that charm the mind?
 That power ineffable which spreads around
 Life's vernal blossoms in perpetual round,
 Twines round pleas'd Nature's brow Hope's fadeless wreath
 And raises her above the wrecks of death !
 w
 As a contrast to these shining qualities, the opposition of
 Luna and Jove to Mars, together with the fickle Mercury, being
 fixed in the sign of the Lion, approaching the solar beams, and
 previously meeting a quartile of the three planets before men
 tioned, would naturally tend to cause great violence of the pas
 sions, if they were not governed by the united force of reason
 and education; they also signify a mind peculiarly fond of sov
 ereign sway, and of the etiquette of regality, with all its pomp
 and decorations; but, at the same time, these configurations
 undoubtedly incline to courage, giving also a firm and decided
 determination and contempt of control which could only be over
 come by the most persuasive arguments.
 The combined effects of Venus arising—of the moon in her
 north node joined with Jupiter—of Sol in Leo, a fiery and regal
 sign of his own nature—in the house of friends, with the famous
 fixed star Regulus of the first magnitude, the trine of Herschel
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 201
 and Mercury, and, above all, of the seven planets above the earth
 in their diurnal circuits, four of them in masculine signs, with
 the eminent fixed star Arista, in the house of riches, are positive
 testimonies of extensive and extraordinary power, dominion,
 riches, and fame, equal, if not superior, to any of the royal and
 illustrious predecessors of this dignified native.
 The Pars Fortune falling, being calculated according to the
 Placidian method, will be found posited in the commencement of
 Cancer, which being angular in the zenith or summit of heaven,
 and disposed of by the moon, who, although in conjunction with
 Jupiter, applies to Mars, is also symbolical of considerable
 wealth; but this combination of aspects never makes a miser.
 The mundane sextile of Mars and Venus, from cadent houses,
 denotes considerable loss of money by the ways and means sig
 nified by that aspect, which are chiefly through generous and
 munificent pursuits, and a dislike to parsimonious or avaricious
 dealings.
 The moon and Mars cadent, the former in the south-west and
 descending part of heaven, most amply denote travelling, which
 has already been, and will again be verified; but generally when
 least expected.
 As a proof of the correctness of the horoscope, it will be seen,
 that the coronation took place under the direction of the sun to
 the zenith or summit of heaven, an event which I certainly most
 plainly foresaw, and which, although contrary tothe opinion of
 most other astrologers, I confidently predicted a considerable
 time before it took place; as numbers of my friends are ready to
 testify,—the calculation is as follows :—
 THE ASTROLOGICAL CALCULATION OF THE
 CORONATION ASPECT
 Right ascension of the Sun
 Right ascension of the Medium Toeti
 The arc of direction
 141° 54'
 83
 58
 48
 6
 Which answers to fifty-eight years, eleven months, at which
 precise time, the native was publicly invested with the functions
 of royalty.
 It will be readily observed by the student in astronomy, that
 when the sun came to the midst of heaven, that planet formed a
 square and evil aspect with the ascendant. To this may be
 attributed the severe attacks of illness, which for some time pre
 ceding this period was felt by the native, and to the same cause
 we may attribute the disturbances through the friends of the
202
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 late queen, and other ephemeral hostilities which seemed to have
 ushered in this grand accession of honors, as with the appear
 ance of temporary evil, for reges subjacent leges stellarum.
 Also, when the sun came to the cusp of the 10th house he was in
 quartile to the 7th house, from whence we derive the signification
 of marriage and public enemies; this plainly prefigured the death
 of the queen, and other disastrous events of that time; but it is a
 fact no less worthy to be remembered, that as the above royal
 direction never fails to give honors late in life, so as the sun
 gradually approaches the summit of heaven, the effects become
 palpably visible, and never fail to cause public notice, although
 rather imperfect in their tendency; but when once the arc of
 direction is completed, and when the sun has attained his highest
 meridional altitude, the effects are for years nearly the same.
 Hence arose the acclamations and public honors which awaited
 the regal subject of this article, after the coronation, in Ireland,
 Scotland, Hanover, &c. Hence, the ease with which he overcame
 the vituperative efforts of his numerous enemies, and hence the
 real cause of the increase in popularity of the government ever
 since that period, which has yet been a little mixed with opposi
 tion, precisely as the direction should operate.
 The ascendant, which is the true hyleg, being so famously
 fortified denotes length of life, and a powerful constitution to
 resist disease; and from the strength of Venus, in the line of the
 horizon, the aspects of evil promittors have failed, hitherto, to
 cause any peculiar effect; thus, in the 39th year, the ascendant
 was opposed to Saturn, but this, instead of giving the native
 illness, seems only to have caused a partial derangement of his
 affairs; it however gave illness to his father the late king, and
 violent disputes in the government. It was during the operation
 of this direction (in the year 1801), that the inglorious peace
 between France and England took place, with many other events,
 that the attentive student will readily discover.
 I might enlarge much further on this most fortunate horo
 scope, and might proceed to calculations whereby I could predict
 events of most surprising consequence, relative to the above
 illustrious native, as connected with the fate of the kingdom he
 governs, as well as of other states connected therewith. I might,
 in particular, dwell with a prophet’s ardor, upon the events which
 will be produced by the sun, approaching to the fiery star of
 Mars; and when Jupiter begins to set beneath the western
 horizon. This, however, at present, I shall cease to do; suffice
 it, that I read in the stars the most important changes. In three
 quarters of the globe, they draw near, they approximate; but
 when the star of Venus shall sink for a time beneath the lowering
 influence of the Saturnine aspect, and Mars lends his aid, when
 the sign of the Crab and the Lion shall feel glutted with hostile
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 203
 rays, and the Georgian star turn thrice to meet this baleful influ
 ence; then shall these events be even at the door:—
 And yet the bright celestial orbs on high
 Shall even then protect their favorites:
 For Jove and Hermes shall combine; nor Mars,
 Nor Saturn, shall have yet the power
 To change that noble fate, which at their birth
 The horoscope decreed.
 THE NATIVITY OF HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
 DUKE OF YORK
 AUGUST 16,
 1763,
 10 h. A. M.
 O what a confluence of ethereal fires,
 From urns unnumbered
 Streams to a point, and centres in my sight.
 YoUNG.
 THE singular combination of celestial influence, arising from
 the remarkable conjunction of Sol, Mercury, Mars, and Venus,
 in the same sign and house of heaven—the whole satellitiurn
 approaching the meridian, and surrounded by fortunate fixed
 stars,—is an astrological testimony of so illustrious a nature as
 rarely to be met with, and is of itself the greatest corroboration
 of a princely fate.
 Added to this, the most eminent star in the whole of the
 celestial hemispheres,” the transcendantly propitious Spica Vir
 ginus, is located in the horoscope; and the planet Jupiter, the
 greater fortune, beholds both Mars and Venus with a friendly
 * Spica Virginus, the ear of wheat in the constellation Virgo
 “The star which crowns the golden sheaf,
 The glory of the skies!”
204
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 and benevolent sexangular ray: the whole of which configura
 tions have already been partly verified in the distinguished
 honors, which the native has acquired during his high military
 commission, as commander-in-chief of the bravest troops in the
 world; in which, as also in every other station which this native
 is destined to fill, he has and will arrive to the most exalted
 military renown.
 *
 The Georgian planet, angular in the seventh house, contrib
 utes to render the life conspicuous, and tinctured with events of
 no common influence. But it is to be regretted that this part of
 the geniture would at times expose the concerns and undertakings
 of the illustrious native rather to the hostility of adversaries,
 which has been experienced often during the early part of his
 life; while, on the other hand, the trine aspect of Sol and the
 Georgian, from the fiery trigon, in a masculine conformation, is
 emblematical of the completest triumph over his most obnoxious
 opponents.
 The setting of Saturn's ponderous orb, in the descending
 quarter of the heavens, would naturally cause both journeys and
 voyages; but the principal significators being fixed, the stay in
 one place would also be of long duration: and both the life and
 actions would also in a measure partake of durability from the
 same cause. The cause of ecclesiastical honors could not be more
 plainly shown than by the sextile of the two eminent significators,
 Jupiter and Mercury. The significations of Saturn in the house
 of marriage have also taken place, but may not be all entirely
 ceased.
 When the sun, who is here located in the zenith and angle of
 honor and greatness, arrives to the conjunction of Jupiter, by
 his converse motion, there cannot fail to be peculiar and corre
 sponding events, remarkable for good fortune, &c.; which the
 astrological student can readily calculate, yet upon which I do
 not think it proper any further to enlarge, except that—
 “Aliquem ad honores promovere honoribus amplificare.”
 THE NATIVITY OF THE DUKE OF CLARENCE
 “All events are but the consummation of preceding causes.”
 THIS illustrious native is born chiefly under the influence of
 the sun and Mars; the former planet, according to the rules of
 ancient astrologers, being strongly placed in his own house; with
 the famous star Regulus, and Jupiter, having just ascended.
 As to riches, the geniture is very favorable, for the quintile
 of the moon and Jupiter, and Venus, bearing testimony, are
 emblematical of wealth and fortune; and also legacies and gifts,
 as well as unexpected improvement of the pecuniary resources.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 205
 The conjunction of Venus and Mercury, in the nativity of a
 subject, would have caused eminence in music, literature, or the
 fine arts. As it is, they must give a strong bias that way, and
 some proficiency therein, but mixed with strange ideas.
 AUGUST 21,
 J765,
 3 h. 54. m. A. M.
 Above Is Shown The Nativity Of The Duke Of Clarence
 According To The Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 Naval honors are well denoted by the moon in the 3d house,
 in sextile to the sun and Mars. The most remarkable position
 in this geniture is the extraordinary similarity of the planets when
 compared to those in the geniture of the Duke of York, the sun
 and Mars being actually in the same sign of the zodiac in both
 nativities!
 THE NATIVITY OF QUEEN CAROLINE
 THIs Horoscope is evidently remarkable; for her is not only
 a stellium, or crowd of planets in the south angle, but the con
 stellation of the Asselli, fixed stars of no very promising in
 fluence, are in the oriental angle, and both Venus and Mercury
 afflicted by the presence of Herschel.
 The nativity was in other respects unfortunate: for Jupiter,
 the greater fortune, is under the earth, and in quartile to the evil
 influence of Saturn, the latter planet being in a cardinal sign, and
 in the house of friends. But the worst and most conspicuous
 aspect of the whole is the hostile square of the moon and Mars,
 from common signs, of very pernicious tendency. This could
 not fail to cause a most checkered and diversified life, many
206
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 reverses of fortune, and not a few enemies. There are many
 other significations to be derived therefrom, for it inclines the
 mind in general to haste and irritability, novelty, and unfixedness
 of principles, which would have been much worse had the aspect
 not been partially befriended by favorable influence; yet Jupiter
 in Libra is not very powerful, for Saturn here labors very hard
 to obtain the mastery:—
 “The stars in their courses fought against Sisera.”
 Those persons who are in any way acquainted with the rules
 of astrology will feel a smile of contempt pass over their fea
 Above Is Shown The Nativity Of Queen Caroline According
 To Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 tures, when, after surveying the square aspect of Luna and Mars,
 they recollect the whole of the circumstances connected with the
 friends of this illfated princess; and, if there be any truth in the
 science (which those who study it know well there is), then a
 certain illustrious personage, in the opinion of an astrologer, was
 perfectly justified in the line of conduct he afterwards pursued.
 It is not, however, to be supposed that there existed an over
 whelming fatality in regard to this lady's life and actions; for
 Jupiter in trine to the moon would give much energy and forti
 tude of mind, with the power of avoiding the appearance of evil:
 but it is seldom that the evil rays of the stars are not attended
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 207
 by powerful secondary causes, which, when thrown into the bal
 ance, cause it to preponderate, as the first cause intimated.
 That the native should take many long and perilous journeys
 and hazardous voyages is quickly seen by the occidental and
 descending position of Mars, as well as the rulers of travelling
 being assenting thereto; and the part of fortune angular. The
 concourse of stars in the mid-heaven also denoted a life emi
 nently remarkable.
 The sun, in this geniture, is the true hyleg and giver of life,
 being in the aphetical places appointed him by Ptolemy, and
 Saturn is the principal anareta to whom we must look to the
 destruction of animation. Now, at the time this illustrious
 princess died, the sun, by direction, was arrived (by the rapt
 motion) to a parallel of Saturn; and the great conjunction of the
 two superiors, Saturn and Jupiter, were by transit upon the very
 cusp of the south angle, where the parallel was formed.
 Also, in the lunation preceding, the luminaries were posited
 in the 6th degree of Leo, where the apheta met the radical squares
 of the Georgian, Venus, and~Mercury. Mercury being also retro
 grade, in the middle of the same sign. ‘Although these ingresses
 would not have been productive of any very powerful evil, had
 not the direction been in active force, yet they were as so many
 inferior, yet malevolent agents in causing the catastrophe. A
 quick or sudden death was also shown by Mars in Pisces, in the
 8th house; and Saturn being in square to Jupiter.
 Another event (unlikely at the time), but which I have no
 doubt would afterwards have occurred, was shown by the lunar
 station, namely,—the loss of popularity, and desertion by those
 who supported her, for those who have the moon squared by
 Mars, can never depend on friends; had this princess survived
 till Saturn entered Gemini, this prediction would have been amply
 realized; which, however, a divine Providence, probably for some
 wise purpose, ordained should not take effect.
 I
 THE NATIVITY OF THE INFANT PRINCESS,
 ELIZABETH OF CLARENCE
 WHOSE DEATH WAS PREDICTED BY “RAPHAEL”
 “ ust ‘entering life, this little stranger eye’d
 he scene of tumult, lik'd it not, and died."
 THE time of this royal infant’s birth was taken from the
 public papers, and the occurrence is within the memory of every
 one: the horoscope is not in any way altered, the figure being set
 to the estimate time of birth, as there given.
 Now the moon being placed in the ninth house, within the
 aphetical prerogative, becomes undisputably hyleg, and the chief
THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 208
 fountain of life, to whom we must refer for the speedy dissolu
 tion that took place.
 the moon is most terribly afflicted by the mundane square of the
 It will be readily discovered by the genethliacal student, that
 sun, being within three degrees of this evil ray, and the sun him
 self is conjoined with Mars, in the house of sickness, in sesqui
 quadrate to the malicious star of Saturn, which latter planet is in
 semisquare to the lunar orb also; and neither of the fortunes,
 Jupiter or Venus, assist to overcome this combination of virulent
 influence.
 Some short period after the birth of the royal infant was
 announced, a military gentleman of high, onsideration requested
 December 10,
 5 h. 5m. P. M.
 1820.
 Lit. 61° 3 l’
 Above Is Shown The Nativity Of The Princess Elizabeth
 According To Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 my opinion upon the above geniture, chiefly as it related to the
 duration of the existence, earnestly requesting me to be candid
 and explicit in my answer. Having cast the nativity, I imme
 diately discovered that the horoscope was fatal, and that, unfor
 tunately, the stars had doomed the royal subject thereof to an
 early grave (the reasons for which were as I have before
 named). It was, therefore, with great reluctance that I delivered
 my sentiments to that effect, which were unfortunately soon
 realized. I have been informed, and have every reason to be
 lieve, that the illustrious parent received an early intimation of
 my prediction, and that he in some measure consoled himself with
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 209
 his loss, in consequence of my forewarning. The positions were
 certainly most striking, and while instances of this kind can be
 adduced to prove the reality of siderial influence, the astrologer
 may laugh at the folly of those persons who condemn this
 celestial science as an untruth, because it may perchance happen
 to interfere with their opinions or prejudices.
 THE NATIVITY OF THE DUC DE BOURDEAUX
 HEIR TO THE THRONE OF FRANCE
 Oft, while calm night’s dark wings the globe surround,
 When the pale moon begins her lonesome round,
 Then does the soul to starry orbs repair,
 Those radiant worlds that float in ambient air;
 And, with a regular confusion, stray,
 Oblique, direct, along the aerial way;
 Then, with an anxious mind their rays we scan,
 And hence we learn what they presage to man.—V1RGn..
 THE celestial intelligencers are strangely placed in the above
 horoscope, the planet Venus has just arisen, the sun predominates
 in the ascendant, and is in close conjunction with Mercury; both
 of which are in opposition to Saturn, that leaden star, whose
 pernicious course is rendered farther malevolent by his retro
 grade motion, and increase of power thereby.
 The moon, who is the apheta, is placed also in a curious sta
 tion, for she is affiicted from the approaching aspects of both Sol
 and Saturn; while, at the same time, considerably weakened by
 the sesquiquadrate of the violent Mars; and even the Georgian
210
 THEIOLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 star comes in for his share of malignant influence, as if the
 hostile machinery were not complete without his pernicious
 acquisition.
 The natural consequences of these violent configurations to
 the luminaries will cause much sickness during the infant state;
 and, without the interposition of Divine Providence, I am afraid
 the royal infant is not fated to a very long life. Soon after the
 commencement of the sixth year, the sun arrives to the obnoxious
 rays of Saturn by an opposite aspect, and the moon, “the fountain
 of life,” is unfortunately afflicted by the same configuration with
 the Georgian. At this time, and especially during the months of
 March and April, 1826, the physical results of these afflicting
 stars promise no very favorable conclusion. However, if the
 royal infant survives his sixth year, his constitution may be
 sufficiently strong to conquer the remaining evils, and he may
 then live to years of maturity.
 The square aspect of the moon and Mercury, the rulers of
 the mental faculties, denote a quick, volatile, yet clever genius;
 very changeable, and addicted to strange fancies, fears, and con
 ceits; he would also be easily biased and swayed by his coun
 sellors; and would be extremely partial to the military, and
 almost equally so to the church; both of whom have great reason
 to wish that he may come to the throne of France. He would
 also be much beloved by the nation in general; and, as his nativity
 decidedly agrees with the nativities of the Kings of England,
 should he survive his infant state, and come to the possession
 of imperial power, there will be a great union between the senti
 ments, interests, and pursuits of these two great nations.
 The nativity is in other respects, especially in regard to
 wealth, of a fortunate description, and very excellent in honors,
 should the evil influences be averted, and life be prolonged.
 The temporary condition of every thing below, is the canker-worm of
 all our present comforts. What is youth, with all its endearments, but a
 dream, from which crosses, cares, and pains eagerly snatch us, and we are
 never susceptible of its value, till past beyond recall l"
 ‘
 THE NATIVITY OF THE RIGHT HON. LORD BYRON
 “There is a name that will survive
 Royalty’s monumental stone,
 And, long as history can give
 Deserv’d renown, must deathless live;
 Bvnon it is thine own.”—MIRRoii.
 THE time of birth of this truly noble and most illustrious
 poet was obtained some years since, from an authentic source;
 so that there can be nodoubt of its correctness. And certainly,
 its perfect agreement with the principally known events of his
 life exhibits a most remarkable proof of astrology, by far too
 strong for the enemies of the science to invalidate.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 211
 The extraordinary mental qualifications which the native
 possessed are most amply demonstrated by the positions and
 configurations of the moon and Mercury. The latter planet is
 the principal ruler of the intellectual faculties; and being free
 from the afliiction of the solar rays, in the moveable and tropical
 sign Capricorn; oriental, and approaching a sextile of the ascen
 dant, by which means he may be said to be in a glorious position,
 January 22nd.
 1h. 18m. A. M.
 ~
 _
 1788.
 Lat. 51. 32.
 Above Is Shown The Nativity Of The Right Hon. Lord Byron
 According To Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 contributes, according to the quadripartite of Ptolemy, to render
 the mind “clever, sensible, capable of great learning, inventive,
 expert, logical, studious of nature, speculative, of good genius,
 emulous, benevolent, skilful in argument, accurate in conjecture,
 and adapted to science and mystery.” The page also adds,
 “tractable”; but Mercury being in opposition to the moon and
 Mars, instead of tractability, gives an hatred of control ; inspires
 the native with the most lofty ideas and aspiring sentiments;
 gives him originality and eccentricity, with a firmness of mind
 almost inclining to obstinacy; and which made this illustrious
 native such an enemy to the track of custom, for which he was
 so remarkable, and which contributed to form that lofty genius
 which alike rode in the whirlwind, or sparkled in the sunbeam.
 The disposition and rational faculties are no less plainly de
 scribed by the position of the moon, in conjunction with Mars;
 likewise, in a tropical and cardinal sign, wherein she is power
 ful; while Mars is nearly in exact mundane trine to the ascend
212
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ant. These positions laid the foundation, from the moment of
 his existence, of that peculiarity of disposition; that keen and
 cutting vein of satire; that caustic and pointed wit; that quick,
 enterprising, and daring mind; that extraordinary development
 of energies, passions, and eccentricities; and that exquisite taste,
 talent, and sensibility, for which he stood unrivalled. But, at the
 same time that this position of the heavenly bodies gave senti
 ments of the most perfect heroism and invincible courage, it is
 to be regretted that it inclined the temper to be both hasty and
 irascible on the slightest occasion, and to increase the violence of
 the most powerful passions!
 Mercury, it will be observed, is alone in the sign of the winter
 tropic, and in semiquartile to Saturn; which may account for the
 solitary gloom that so frequently overshadowed his path through
 life; as well as for that melancholy sadness which tinged some of
 his brightest ideas, and which actually seems to have embittered
 the latest hours of his existence.
 It will be evidently remarked, as curious and worthy of atten
 tion, that neither Mercury nor the moon have any perfect aspect
 to Jupiter (for although Mercury is ‘approaching a biquintile of
 that planet, the aspect is too far off to operate decidedly). May not
 this account for the detestation in which the illustrious native
 held the religious cant of the day, and which brought upon him
 much obloquy from the aristocracy? It will be remembered by
 the student, that in astrology, Jupiter always has signification of
 religious and clerical matters.
 Thus it will be observed, from a combined view of the above
 testimonies, judged according to the established and experimental
 rules of the astral science, that the nativity plainly demonstrates
 the illustrious subject thereof to have been endowed with the most
 extraordinary and stupendous intellects, with a genius and imagi
 nation, as far surpassing the common run of poets, as the reful
 gent rays of the meridian sun surpass the feeble twinkling of the
 smallest star that arises in our horizon! Neither is it a trifling
 proof of the truth of astrology, that his geniture should so
 plainly demonstrate that he was “born a poet.”.
 The honor and dignity which the native obtained by the
 exercise of his unrivalled talents are well denoted from the
 principal configurations—for the trine aspect of Saturn, Venus,
 and Jupiter, from scientific signs, to which also the sun ap
 proaches, with Regulus, that most eminent fixed star of the first
 magnitude, in the midst of heaven, are ample testimonies of an
 illustrious name and lasting honors, which neither time nor cir
 cumstances can obliterate.‘ While Mercury and the moon in
 opposition may denote frequent causes of unpopularity while
 living, but which after his death would be soon forgotten. It
 must also be remembered that Mercury uniformly designates
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 \
 213
 writers, critics, and the press in general; hence the frequent
 skirmishes, which this noble author had with the literati of the
 age, in which, however, he generally came off as a conqueror.
 Travelling to distant countries, and a termination of existence
 far from the native land, is no less typified by the cadent position
 of the moon and Mars, in the fleeting sign Cancer; Mars, being
 also the lord of the ascendant, denotes this event more plainly,
 if the system of the ancients may be allowed.
 Infelicity in marriage and amours is signified by the conjunc
 tion of Saturn and Venus, in a fixed sign; this must also have
 contributed to that peculiar tone which distinguishes his writings,
 when treating of amatory subjects, and for which he has been
 much censured. But as Jupiter beholds the aspect, it is rational
 to suppose that so far from the native appearing more moral,
 benevolent, or virtuous than he really was, this aspect would have
 caused him to represent himself by far more immoral than he
 was in reality; as this configuration generally gives singular dis
 like to the customs and opinions of contemporaries, and likewise
 inclines to peevishness or romantic melancholy, yet it is not suf
 f
 i_ci_ently powerful to overcome the other tokens of a good dispo
 sition.
 Having thus shown that the fortunes and disposition of this
 illustrious original were to be read in the stars, I shall proceed to
 give the calculation of his death. But first it may be noticed,
 that, on a general view of the horoscope, the planets indicate
 shortness of life; for the moon, the hyleg, is in conjunction with
 an evil star, in opposite rays to another, and otherwise materially
 vitiated; all which are symbolical of that which ensued, and
 which I will now arithmetically demonstrate.
 THE HYLEG DIRECTED TO THE EVIL RAYS OF THE
 ANARETA OR THE DIRECTION OF DEATH
 Namely The Moon To The OppositiorrOf Saturn
 0
 The R. A. of the )
 Pole of the )>
 Oblique Descension of the l)
 Oblique Descension of the 8 of *2
 Oblique Descension of the )
 The fatal arc of Direction
 107
 21
 116
 151
 116
 35
 I
 53
 30
 6
 49
 6
 43
 \
 Which arc of direction, being equated by the measure of time
 now used in astrology, answers to 36 years and 3 months, at
*--~~~"-*-* *
 214
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 which precise time, the native left this transitory and fleeting
 existence, for a life of immortality.
 I have given the above as the chief direction* which operated
 as the fatal abscissor or destroyer of life, but there was also a no
 less fatally evil train of starry influence coming up in quick
 succession thereto, and which rendered it utterly impossible that
 existence could be preserved; neither was there any blame to be
 attached to his medical assistants, for the stars appear to have
 fated him to an early grave: and what those celestial orbs predict,
 in cases like these, seldom fails to take place.
 The following were the train of evil aspects:—
 Years. Months.
 ) & b zwith lat.
 ) & b in the godiac
 ) & b in mundo
 36 3 Death.
 39 4
 4O O
 In the midst of these malevolent arcs, there was not a single
 direction of Jupiter or Venus to assist in supporting the vital
 powers; and it is also worth noticing, that, in the secondary
 directions, the ) had arrived to 21 deg. of m, where she shortly
 after met the square of Saturn, and a conjunction of — 3 and
 9 took place, in Io deg. of f, each of these were equally per
 nicious.
 I have given the arithmetical calculation of the direction
 which cut the thread of his mortal existence, in preference to
 merely stating my opinion of the cause, as it must be esteemed
 an unanswerable argument, in demonstration of the solid prin
 ciples upon which astrologers found their predictions; it will also
 prove that the doctrine of chance has nothing to do with the
 science, but that the laws of the heavens are as fixed and im
 mutable as those which govern the universe. I have elsewhere
 mentioned that the combination of celestial influence, amicably
 formed from fixed signs and angles, give not only a durable fame,
 but posthumous honors; the rule need scarcely be applied in this
 geniture; for if anything could endear the name of this trans
 cendant poet more firmly to the British nation, it was the gen
 erous act, in which he died, while fighting for the liberties of an
 oppressed but heroic nation.
 So the bright globe that rules the skies,
 Though with a glorious rise he gilds the heavens,
 Reserves his choicest beams to grace his set,
 And then he looks most great,
 And then in greatest splendor dies.—OLDHAM.
 If we except Shakspeare, there is, perhaps, no writer in the
 English language from whose works an equal number of poetical
 * The celebrated Mrs. Williams predicted that this period would be very
 dangerous.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 215
 beauties can be selected as from those of Lord Byron. He excels
 equally in the sublime and the pathetic. Every theme seemed to
 suit his genius, and he could vary his style with his subject in a
 manner, and to an extent, that our literature before had given
 no example of. In his Don Juan he has given a flexibility to our
 language, of which it had never hitherto been thought susceptible.
 He has shown it capable of rivalling the Italian in the graceful
 ness of its inflections and the pliancy of its cadence. Some, we
 know, there are, who would go on poring through the maze of
 his mellifluous diction with no other aim than to find out a flaw
 in the sentiment. The numberless passages, full of spirit and
 beauty, that cross them in their scrutiny, pass with such objec
 tors for nothing: while their eye follows him into the loftiest
 regions of poetry, they have no wish but to spy some spot upon
 his mantle. To such persons we would address ourselves in the
 mild and forbearing spirit of that admonition which we should
 all do well to remember—“Let him that is without sin cast the
 first stone.” Thus much we may be permitted to remark in
 behalf of Lord Byron, that they make a very erroneous estimate
 of his character, who conceive he was capable of withholding his
 approbation from right principles and virtuous disposition,
 wherever they were found. An individual to whom all his
 friends were attached with the strongest feelings of regard, must
 have had many private virtues, and those too of no common
 kind: for the rest, God is the searcher of hearts, and sees us all
 as we are. This recollection may check the severity of our sen
 tence where human frailty is the subject. When we bring our
 fellow-creatures into judgment, our own consciousness may well
 inspire the best of us with moderation.
 That “the paths of glory lead but to the grave,” is a painful
 lesson to philosophy; it was a lesson with which,—melancholy
 as it is,—Lord Byron was familiar; but it never for a moment
 damped his spirit, or depressed his energy. His searching eye
 saw into the very inmost hearts of those “rulers of the world”
 who are struggling to arrest the progress of knowledge in
 Europe, and to erect again “the standard of ancient night.” All
 the force of his talents, and all the splendor of his fancy, were
 put forth to strengthen the love of science and of freedom.
 Without a groan, a sigh, or glance, to show
 A parting pang, the spirit from him past;
 And they who watched him nearest, could not know
 The very instant, till the change that cast
 His sweet face into shadow, dull and slow
 Glazed o'er his eyes.—PoRTFOLIO.
 His mighty star is extinct in darkness, and his ruling planet
 has set forever.
216
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE NATIVITY OF THE PRETENDER
 From A Manuscript Of The Seventeenth Century, In The
 Possession Of Mr. J. Varley
 JUNE 10,
 1688.
 9 h. 30 m.
 Urania, thus with spotless truth array'd,
 And rob’d in light, illumines every shade,
 Like Phaebus bright, with strength and glory crown'd,
 She energetic darts her beams around.—MENTOR STELLARUM.
 THE above horoscope is really a curiosity to the astrological
 world, and may well afford some matter for curious observation,
 if not for important discovery; I give it without any alteration,
 from the original Manuscript, and as I have not a chronology at
 hand, I cannot sufficiently refer to the events of the period in
 which the native lived, to explain their causes. But the circum
 stance of the sun, Mercury, and Venus, being in the Ioth house,
 or supreme angle, in square to the moon was clearly indicative of
 loss of honor, and as the moon is always the significator of the
 popular support, and generally of riches and dignity, her affliction
 was decidedly against the exercise of regal power. Mars in the
 11th house was also typical of falseness, treachery, and want of
 aid from those designated as friends.
 Cito sociorum olla male fervet.
 The opposition of Jupiter and Mars, and their mutual square to
 Saturn, from cardinal signs, is worthy notice; what a fortunate
 event for England, that a native, born to such misfortune, and so
 unlucky from his infancy, did not come to the throne of these
 realms! What the consequence would have been had such an
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 217
 event happened, I will not attempt to explain any farther than it
 must have been very disastrous.
 Ad extremum halitum, inimicus libertate.
 I would again beg leave to refer the reader to the rules I have
 laid down for popularity, in pages 329 and 330 of this work, and
 here are again found three planets in the same house, but they
 are in common signs, and there is not one planet in a fixed sign
 in the whole horoscope—another proof of the fleeting nature of
 whatever greatness the native might acquire, which indeed could
 be but very little, as the reigning configurations are remarkably
 evil.
 THE NATIVITY OF GEORGE BIDDER
 The Celebrated Calculating Youth
 JUNE 14,
 1806.
 3 h. 45 m.
 “In brief, in whatever sphere, whether of commerce of philosophy,
 persons are placed, so happily endued with the influence of Mercury, the
 mind will shine with glory and advantage.”
 THE time of birth of this remarkable youth was obtained
 from his parents, and, from the conspicuousness of the astro
 logical causes for his extraordinary genius, exhibits a singular
 proof of celestial influence over the mental faculties.
 This celebrated calculating youth is born under the famous
 sign Gemini, so noted for containing eminent fixed stars of the
 first and second magnitude, and of commanding influence.
 Astrologers, both ancient and modern, are unanimous in
 assigning the dominion of the mental faculties to the moon and
 Mercury, and according as these planets are well or ill placed, so
218
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 in a great measure will be the intellectual abilities; now in the
 foregoing horoscope, the moon is in exact zodiacal parallel to
 Mercury, and in conjunction with the planet Mars, the author of
 acute perception and arithmetical genius; while Mercury is with
 the famous fixed star Aidebaran; receiving also the testimonies
 of both Saturn and Herschel, and further by the rules of the
 ancient astrologers, the native is born entirely under the planet
 Mercury, who is placed in his own celestial house.
 These constitute sufficient reasons for that eminency which
 the native has acquired by his astonishing powers of calculation.
 Yet the nativity bears many marks of reverses of fortune, at
 different times: and especially during the twentieth year, al
 though there is sufficiency of benevolent influence, to render the
 name of much celebrity, and the fame hereafter acquired may be
 more durable.
 The astrological student will not fail to notice the curious
 conjunctions in the horoscope, namely, of the moon, Venus, and
 Mars, in the earthly, and Saturn and Herschel in the airy trigon.
 This proves what I have before advanced, that such a confluence
 of rays cause celebrity and a public name. The singular station
 of the Georgian is also deserving strict attention, and the remark
 able appearance of Mercury in his own house will go far to prove
 the reality of the planetary dignities, which those who are learned
 in this science must readily admit; and if not, I shall hold no
 other controversy, but remind them of the saying of Plato—
 THE NATIVITY OF MR JOHN VARLEY
 The Celebrated Artist And Judicial Astrologer
 The study of astrology itself, as professing to discover, by celestial
 phenomena, future mutations in the elements and terrestrial bodies, ought
 perhaps not to be despised. The theory of the tides, for example, is alto
 gether an astrological doctrine, and long before the days of Isaac Newton
 was as well understood as it is at this moment. The fact of these allega
 tions might be so easily ascertained, that it is surprising they should still
 be pronounced incredible, and denied rather than contradicted.
 THIS gentleman is well known among the lovers of the fine
 arts for his skill in that department of human talent; and it is no
 less well known, that he has already soared to a height far above
 mediocrity, and is considered as a man of first-rate abilities in
 the line he has adopted, a fact the publicity of which evades any
 possible idea of flattery from the pen of an astrologer. This
 skill in Occult Philosophy, and the predictive art, is no secret
 amongst the more fashionable and distinguished circles, where
 his predictions have conduced greatly to the revival of the belief
 in siderial influence. These particulars are clearly seen by a view
 of the nativity, where we find the rare occurrence of Mercury in
 the sign Virgo, in conjunction with Jupiter; and each in Sextile
 to the planet Saturn, a configuration of no common or ordinary
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 eo.
 219
 occurrence; which is rendered stronger by the moon being in the
 scieintific sign Gemini, in her ascending node, in sextile to the sun
 in
 According to the rules of the ancients, he is born under
 Jupiter, and certainly he is the exact personification of that
 description, which the ancients have taught us to expect from
 that ascendancy, being stout, fair, and well formed, of a generous
 mind, and a lover of benevolence, exactly as they have described.
 AUGUST 17,
 l778,
 3 h. 34. tn. P. M.
 The Nativity Of John Varley, Celebrated Astrologer According
 To Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 His profession is denoted by the sextile of Mars and Venus,
 the latter planet being very strongly located near the mid-heaven,
 and approaching a mundane trine of the ascendant; and that he
 should obtain singular honor and celebrity therein may be seen
 from the amicable aspect of the luminaries, and ‘the sun being
 near Regulus, in a sign of his own celestial nature; in other
 respects, Saturn so near the mid-heaven, signifies many changes
 and temporary reverses of fortune, at different periods of life,
 particularly when evil directions are operating, which has been
 the case already, as far as I have been able to ascertain (for this
 geniture is inserted without the knowledge of the native). But
 Jupiter beholding Saturn, the evil influence is, in some measure,
 mitigated, yet by no means annihilated. I have subjoined a table
 of the principal directions, by which it will be seen that the moon
 arrives to an opposition of Saturn, in the last half of the forty
 eighth year. This configuration is the forerunner of much
 trouble and vexation, it will affect the native in his person,* and
 '_As the rnoon is hyleg, _I fear it will also give a serious illness, for the rays are
 peculiarly noxious and alarming.
220
 |
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 various other ways, with a succession of sinister events, that I
 shall forbear to enlarge upon in a public manner, as by so doing,
 I might in some measure affect his interest, and otherwise preju
 dice him. However, I would advise him to be very careful of
 his health at that period; neither should I have mentioned aught
 of these circumstances, did not I feel convinced that the native is
 so well versed in the science, as to be free from fear, in hearing
 of that which his own skill must have previously taught him to
 expect. If this evil aspect is got over, there are many future
 testimonies of honor and dignity, for—
 “He who can paint
 Like nature, whose imagination boasts
 Amidst its gay creation, hues like hers,
 He who can mix them with that matchless skill,
 And lose them in each other, as appears
 In every bud that blows.”
 Such an artist as this may well prove a lustre to his profes
 sion, and inherit a never dying fame; the natural result of
 fortunate configurations at his birth.
 A List Of The Principal Directions. In This Nativity
 Up To The 48th Year
 Years.
 Q & 24 in mundo
 Months.
 8 3 | ) D24 in mundo, con. 27 6
 ) >k 2 mundo
 Q k b in the zodiac
 9 6 ) >k # zod. with lat. 28 3
 II O || @ D b in mundo con. 28 6
 Ascendant to the A 9 II 9 || Mid-heaven to the k # 31 8
 Q & # in mundo
 G) d & Converse
 I4 9 ) DG)mundo converse 32 o
 I5 O | }. A 9 converse mundo 34 3
 ) D b in mundo, direct 16 I ) >k 2 zodiac, without
 G) semisquare b mundo 17 6
 Mid-heaven & 2
 latitude
 I7 II | ). A 3 con mundo
 Mid-heaven k G)
 Q D ) in the zodiac
 18 3 | ) >k 2 mundo direct
 I9 3 || @ k 9 con mundo
 ) D 3 converse mundo 20 O ) d 3 mundo
 ) A b in the zodiac,
 without latitude
 39 O.
 39 9
 4I O
 4I O
 4I 4
 Ascendant to the A ) 42 o
 2O 3 | Mid-heaven to the k 9 42 o
 ) A b zodiac, with lat. 21 O | Ascendant to the A b 42 6
 Mid-heaven to the A ) 22 3 ) A & mundo con.
 ) D & con. mundo
 ) >k # in the zodiac,
 23 3 | } >k 2 zodiac
 43 O
 43 6
 Ascendant to the & 6 43 9
 without latitude
 25 3 | }. D b zod. without lat. 43 II
 Mid-heaven to the k b 26 2 ) d 3 zodiac
 44 9
 Q & Q in mundo
 Q k 3 zodiac
 26 6 ). A24 converse mundo 46*Io
 26 9 ) & b converse
 47 9
 * Since the above nativity was sent to press, I have discovered that this direction
 has produced marriage. This table of directions was sent for insertion in the month
 of April, but through the derangement of the publisher's affairs, was delayed. This
 is another striking instance of truth in the science
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 221
 THE NATIVITY OF MERLINUS ANGLICUS, JUNIOR
 A Very Noted Judicial Astrologer
 MARCH 19,
 1795
 9 h. 7 m.
 A. M. Bristol.
 Certainly if man may ever found his glory on the achievements of his
 wisdom, he may reasonably exult in the discoveries of Astrology. The
 genius of Roger Bacon, although he was the first of that school of natural
 philosophy, which acknowledges none but experimented truths, was never
 theless bowed to the doctrines of judicial astrology; and his greater name
 sake (Lord Bacon), was still an arguer in favor of celestial influences.
 Tms Horoscope is inserted merely to guard against any
 future misrepresentation of the envious, who oftentimes, upon
 the decease of an astrologer, publish some erroneous nativity,
 and pass it off upon the world as genuine; therefore, the safest
 way is for every artist to publish his own geniture during his
 lifetime, and thus they will foil the base attempts of piratical
 authors.
 I shall forbear, for obvious reasons, to enlarge on the above
 nativity, but will just mention that the moon in mundane parallel
 to Jupiter; Venus near the cusp of the mid-heaven; Mars in exact
 mundane sextile to the mid-heaven; the sun and Mercury in sex
 tile to Saturn and Jupiter, the part of fortune, with the famous
 f
 ixed star Rigel, the eminent star Capella, of the first magnitude,
 and the noted constellation of Orion ascending, with seven plan
 ets above the earth; are testimonies rarely to be met with, and
 constitute a tolerably safe guarantee for the success of "The
 Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century.”
222
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Not only is the horoscope noted for good configurations, but
 there is but one evil aspect in the whole nativity (the opposition
 of the moon to Herschel, and that is too weak to have any
 peculiar efl‘ect.
 What though in solemn silence, all
 Move round this dark terrestrial ball;
 What though no real voice nor sound,
 Amidst their radiant orbs be found;
 In reason's ear they all rejoice
 And utter forth a glorious voice,
 For ever singing as they shine
 The hand that made us is divine.—A1>nisoN.
 Many years ago it was forecast and predicted that—“the
 navity” of this work “was so fortunate, that years might have
 rolled away without producing such an association of beneficent
 omens.
 The prediction has been most fully verified, and in this
 instance astrology has again been triumphant.
 THE NATIVITY OF HARRIS THE AERONAUT
 The belief of judicial astrology has obtained more or less in every age
 and country in the world; and, like some of the first truths of natural relig
 ion, appears to be so impressed on the human mind, that we predict it will
 endure for ever.
 THE nativity of this unfortunate gentleman was given me by
 himself, a few weeks previous to his death ; and, from the strik
 ing peculiarity of the astrological positions, it will no doubt be
 very interesting to the astral student. He was exactly the stamp
 assigned to Mercury, being of a middle stature, slender, dark
 eyes and hair, very ingenious, quick, and amorous. He was by
 trade a cabinetmaker, which circumstance is shown by Mercury
 and Venus, conjoined in Taurus, the sign of the earthly trigon.
 \
t
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 223
 That he should obtain much notoriety is evident from the
 circumstance of four planets in the same house, and from the
 eminent fixed stars ascending with the horoscope, as well as from
 the moon in Cancer receiving the rays of five planets, and the
 probability of which was increased by four planets being above
 the earth, arising to angles.
 The astrological causes of a violent death are various, but are
 chiefly the position of Mars in Virgo, in mundane sesquiquad
 rate to the ascendant, the Hyleg, and the moon receiving the
 opposite rays of Saturn and Jupiter by her square aspect to each.
 Neither did Herschel in the fourth house conduce a little to the
 catastrophe; but the whole combined seem to have portended the
 fatal result which followed. The figure is erected to the estimate
 time of birth, as given to me by himself, but I have reason to
 believe it is not quite correct, and if the time were made about
 nineteen minutes later than the given time (and which was most
 likely the case, as few persons have the exact time of their birth),
 the ascendant, which, as I have before said, was the fountain of
 life, and the true apheta, would be afflicted by the mundane
 square of Mars—as that planet would have reached the cusp of
 the fourth house, and consequently would be in evil aspect to
 each of the angles. This opinion derives some additional con
 firmation from the fact, that had Mars been so near the middle
 of the fifth house at birth, as he is in the estimate figure, the
 native would have died in infancy.
 At the time of his calling on me, I foresaw the danger he was
 likely to encounter, as I suspected the true time of his birth was
 something later; and I was also struck with the curious position
 of Mars during the months of April and May, 1824: for, by
 referring to the ephemeris, it will be found, that this pernicious
 and violent star was, nearly the whole of these two months, in
 the exact evil place that he occupied at birth, and being retro
 grade, became still more powerful to evil, a strange coincidence;
 and, when I took these circumstances into consideration, I can
 didly told him of the danger which I foresaw in his nativity, and
 advised him, by every persuasion that lay in my power, to defer
 his aerial excursion till the first week in June was over: but,
 strange to say, it seems that he was fated to think but little of my
 advice, which is but too often the case where the stars forebode
 violent effects; and thus, although he had timely warning to pre
 vent the forthcoming evil, yet the malignant star which then
 overclouded his destiny with pernicious influence, eventually
 proved the strongest, and thus, unfortunately, his life became an
 early sacrifice to the perils of his adventures.
224
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE NATIVITY OF G. GRAHAM THE AERONAUT
 While thus on high the silken castle glides,
 Bright as a meteor, through the azure tides;
 O'er towns, and towers, and temples, wins it way,
 Or mounts sublime, and gilds the vault of day;
 The calm adventurer in ether sails,
 Views broader stars, and breathes in purer gales;
 Sees, like a map, in many a waving line,
 Round earth's blue plains, her lucid waters shine;
 Sees, at his feet, the forky lightnings glow,
 And hears innocuous thunders roar below.
 THIS gentleman, whose intrepidity and fearless contempt of
 danger and physical obstacles have obtained him much and
 deserved celebrity, was born in London, November 13th, 1784,
 IoH. IOM. P. M., at which time the heavenly bodies were placed as
 in the illustrative diagram.
 The powerful and regal sign Leo is in the ascendant, and the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 225
 qualities of his mind, his firmness, and strength of nerve, and his
 singular courage, are clearly shown, by his being born under the
 solar influence; by the conjunction of Mars, Sol, and Mercury,
 in a fixed sign, and the whole of these planets applying to Jupiter;
 also in a sign of fixed nature, by a square (and determined)
 aspect, from powerful angles and constellations of peculiar in
 fluence over the fate of mortals.
 The conjunction of Mars with Mercury, and the moon with
 Venus, denote a surprising degree of mechanical genius. and
 inventive ideas, which the native is well known to possess; while
 the trine of Herschel to each of these significators sways the
 mental faculties to pursuits of no common or ordinary kind, but
 mostly out of the reach of custom, and those remarkable for
 strangeness or eccentricity. It also gives very aspiring ideas.
 The astrological student will no doubt inquire, in the first
 instance, the cause of his pursuing the science of aerostation; a
 science which has had so few experimental supporters. This
 query may be best solved by analogy and example; and, there
 fore, it is best to give a cursory glance at the nativity of Harris
 the aéronaut (page 437), where we find the sun and Jupiter, two
 powerful significators, both in aérial signs, and well placed as it
 regards honor, &c.; in the present geniture, Jupiter, lord of the
 house of science, is also in an aerial sign, disposing of Luna and
 Venus; and, by his being the only planet in an angular station
 above the earth, may be considered as the chief cause of the
 native pursuing aérial experiments; although the opposition of
 Herschel and Saturn, the latter planet being in a wonderful
 strong position, and in a superior station for public renown,
 might have added a most powerful bias thereto. The circum
 stance of Jupiter (the author of wealth) in both these genitures,
 being in a sign of the aërial trigon, is a most singular proof that
 the ancient astrologers were perfectly right in classing the zodiac
 into different triplicities, and dividing the constellations into
 fiery, airy, &c.
 The satillitium, or crowd of planets, in the angle of the fourth
 house, is likewise remarkable, particularly as they all receive the
 aspect of Jupiter. To this circumstance is owing the celebrity
 which the native has attained by his flights through the aérial
 regions. It is a singular fact, that, in Harris's nativity, there are
 also found four planets in the same house; and I have never
 known any one who, at their birth, had three or four planets
 together in the same sign, or the same house, but they have
 suddenly become much known to the world, and have acquired
 extensive popularity; although much may depend on the primary
 directions then operating.
The student will perceive another signification from the posi
 tions in the fourth house, namely, an inclination to abstruse
226
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 studies. This is also verified in the present instance, the native
 having gone very considerable lengths in occult philosophy, par
 ticularly the alchemical art and transmutation of metals, in which
 science I have been witness to some very curious experiments of
 his performing, and for the effects of which a modern chemist
 would find it difficult to assign the cause. It was from this
 inclination that he requested me to insert his horoscope, in order,
 as he observed, that the occult science might derive an addi
 tional strength from such remarkable confirmations as appear
 therein of astral influence.
 At the time the native commenced his career as an aeronaut,
 which he did under most powerful obstacles, the moon came to
 the semiquartile of Mercury direct falling in the third house, the
 house of journeys, &c. This was the chief cause of his first
 failure in his intended ascent from White Conduit House,
 August 18th, 1823; which arose almost entirely from causes that
 human foresight could not prevent. And as a striking coinci
 dence, as well as a testimony, that there is a “time” for every
 thing, and a season for every “purpose” under heaven, also that,
 beyond a doubt, there are unfortunate as well as fortunate days,
 on that very day the moon was posited, at noon, in 19 degrees of
 Capricorn, on the identical place of Saturn in the nativity. She
 had also separated from the opposition of Mars, the author of
 riot and the lord of misrule, who was then in 18 degrees of
 Cancer, and again applied to Saturn in Taurus! The great con
 fusion and disorderly proceedings which ensued, together with
 the heavy loss the native sustained—which amounted to nearly
 three hundred pounds, and the abuse with which the different
 journals of the day thought proper to load him, in defiance of
 justice, could not have been more plainly and remarkably
 typified.
 It is a well known fact, that the unfortunate Harris, who
 ascended with Graham from Berwick Street, Soho, and whose
 nativity has been spoken of, began his aéronautic pursuits with
 out any known cause, as a direct rival and opponent to the
 subject of the present article. This occurrence is also plainly
 seen by a contemplation of the two genitures, by which it will
 be seen that the configurations are remarkably discordant; for
 not only are the two luminaries in opposite signs (the sum in the
 nativity of Harris being in Gemini, and the moon in Graham's
 in Sagittarius), but Mars, in the former geniture, is in square to
 Venus in the latter; Saturn, in the one nativity, is in the opposite
 sign to the place of Luna in the other, with many other planetary
 disagreements, that will be quickly seen by the attentive student,
 and which could not fail to have caused a contrariety, both of
 fortunes and interests, between the two parties—a fact, the true
 cause of which was, in reality, neither more nor less, than the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 227
 celestial influence operating at the moment of their birth, by
 which they were, in a manner, fated to become decided enemies!
 Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas.
 The present transit of Saturn through Gemini is very un
 :
 favorable for the pursuits and experiments of the native, and the
 evil is not lessened for several months to come, so that he may
 expect much vexation, &c. &c. And at the age of 41 years and
 3 months, the sun arrives to a semiquartile of Mars in mundo,
 direct motion. This is rather a dangerous aspect, and I should
 advise the native to be very careful of attempting any hazardous
 experiments at that period, for Mars in this geniture is rather
 hurtfully posited, though much of his malignance is done away
 by the square of Jupiter; this, however, I need not urge any
 further, for the native is scientifically capable of appreciating the
 above salutary caution.
 As the subject of the present discussion is now living, it
 would be both unfair and illiberal, as well as detrimental to his
 interest, to pursue my calculations any further, especially with
 regard to the future. Enough has, I trust, been already ad
 vanced, to convince every impartial mind, which shall attentively
 weigh the nice agreement between cause and effect already
 spoken of, that, from the instant we first draw breath in this
 world, to the latest moments of our transitory and fleeting exist
 ence, we are entirely subservient to an influence, and which we
 seldom can entirely avert or avoid by any exertion of human
 prudence, although we certainly may, by making use of times and
 seasons, greatly ameliorate the effects: it being always worthy
 to be held in remembrance, that both stars and planets, with the
 whole machinery of the creation, are also entirely subservient to
 the will of the Supreme Being, who can dispense with their
 influences and agency at pleasure. But it is seldom that there is
 any failure in the language of the stars.
 The hieroglyphical scenery which surrounds the horoscope in
 the annexed cut, has been already typical of what has occurred,
 as the following evinces:—
 “Saturday, Mr. Graham ascended in his balloon from Nor
 wich; not long after he ascended, the thunder storm returned
 with renewed violence, and the frequent flashes of lightning must
 have made the situation of the aéronaut peculiar and awf .”—
 T1MEs, August 10th.
228
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE NATIVITY OF ]. ENGLISH, STUDENT IN
 ASTROLOGY
 January 17th,
 1795,
 llli. l0m. P. M.
 What is the sky, but a magnificent timepiece, on which are imprinted
 in legible characters, to announce its principal epocha as it passes; and is not
 the science which decyphers these luminous and interesting signs, valuable
 in proportion to their importance?
 THE above horoscope was given me by the native himself,
 and I insert it merely as an example worthy of remembrance by
 the student, on account of the strange variety of aspects to be
 found therein; such as the mundane sesquiquadrate of Saturn to
 the ascendant, and his semisquare of the mid-heaven; the sesqui
 quadrate of Venus and Saturn; and the singular conjunction in
 the tropical sign Capricorn; all of which are leading features in
 the nativity, and which merit it a place amongst remarkable
 horoscopes. As I am an enemy to all party-spirit, and as rivalry
 in the science is beneath my consideration, I shall forbear to
 descant upon the good or bad fortune to which the native is
 fated,—leaving that for time and circumstances to discover; but
 Mercury with Jupiter should certainly make the native both
 acute and ingenious, and the trine aspect to Saturn gives great
 solidity of ideas, and no want of understanding; yet the square
 of the moon and Mars inclines much to eccentric notions.
 chief motive in inserting this geniture being to disclose the
 validity of directions, Isubjoin a list of the most remarkable
 ones in the horoscope, with the measure thereof equated to
 annual periods up to the 35th year of life.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 229
 A List Of The Principal Directions In The Above Horoscope
 To The 35th Year; Planispherically Equated
 Yrs. Mths.
 MID-HEAVEN to the sesquiqua- } 6 6 Death in the family.
 drate of 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Q d 24 converse in mundo. . . . . IO 5
 Q & # converse in mundo. . . . . 12 3 Improvem't of mind.
 ) d 9 in mundo . . . . . . . . . . . . . I3 O
 }) >k 3 direct in mundo. . . . . . . . I3 3
 Q sesqui, b converse in mundo I3 9
 Mid-Heaven to the k b . . . . . . . I8 I
 Ascendant to the A & . . . . . . . . . 23 6 A removal.
 Q semiquar. 9 in the zodiac. . 23 6
 •
 •
 }) >k 3 in the zodiac. . . . . . . . . . . 23 6 Success in business.
 Q k ) in the zodiac. . . . . . . . . . . 24 5
 ) D 3 converse in mundo.. . . . . 24 O
Ascendant to the k 9 . . . . . . . . . 24 7 Prosperity.
 Q k 3 converse in mundo.. . . . . 25 O
 Ascendant to the quintile # ... 25 9
 •
 •
 Q D b in the zodiac. . . . . . . . . . . 26 2
 Q & Q converse in mundo.. . . . . 27 o
 ) semiquartile 24 converse. . . . . 29 7
 Trouble, loss of mo
 ney, and disgrace.
 ) d 8 in mundo . .. . . . . . . . . . . 29 7 Became an author.
 P semisquare 3 direct in mundo 30 o Evil and vexations.
 •
 P & 24 in mundo . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3O 4
 Preferment to some
 office.
 ) semiquartile 8 converse..... 31 o Loss and anxiety.
 Ascend’t to the semisquare of ) 31 9 Removals & changes.
 ) & b converse in mundo.. . . . . 32 6
 An unfortunate time,
 and singularly evil.
 } A 2 in the zodiac........... 34 O A change in affairs. .
 I have given the effects of a few of the leading directions, as
 far as I obtained the effects of them from the subject of this
 article. The native was very prosperous, as he himself informed
 me, during the 25th and 26th years of his life; and in the 27th
 year, the sun coming to the square aspect of Saturn, laid the
 foundation of a train of evils, which were afterwards severely
 felt, and which produced loss of money, domestic unhappiness,
 and many calamitous events. At the age of 29% years, the moon
 arriving to the conjunction of Mercury, gave, for a time, both
 notice and partial celebrity, chiefly through writing in an
 ephemeral publication, now discontinued; which circumstance I
 partly predicted, and which caused the native to become partially
 known to the astrological world: but chiefly through the sending
 forth some singular and eccentric opinions relative to astrology,
230
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 that time does not appear to sanction. At 30 years and 4 months,
 the moon, coming to Jupiter, is very likely to be productive of
 some favorable change in affairs, and may give pecuniary emolu
 merit; but the moon to the opposition of Saturn, in the 33rd year,
 is very evil. The native must be very cautious in his pursuits
 at that time, and be careful of rushing hastily into that from
 which he may find it difficult to extricate himself; for at that
 period the heavens are lowering, and portend a storm of no small
 magnitude, with a disastrous combination of evils and hostile
 events that I shall forbear to enumerate, being confident the
 native is capable of duly appreciating my prediction.
 NATIVITY OF MR. MUSS
 LATE ENAMEL PAINTER TO THE KING
 MARCH 9,
 1 782.
 The moon commands the seas; she drives the main
 To pass the shore, then drives it back again:
 And this sedition chiefly swells the streams,
 When opposite she views her brother's beams;
 Or when she near in close conjunction rides,
 She rears the flood, and swells the flowing tld€S.—‘MANILIUS.
 THIS gentleman was of much celebrity, and well known as
 being particularly skilful in his line of business. The astrological
 reason of which may be traced to the conjunction of Venus and
 Mercury, and the partile aspect of the Moon to Mars, as well as
 by Venus and Mercury in the fiery sign Aries, and the sun in
 Pisces, arising in the eastern angles, while the moon, in the degree
 ascending, affords a combination of influence seldom met with,
 and which never fails to give a fame in business or profession,
 and notice from noble persons.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 231
 I am not acquainted with any of the past events of his life
 (the nativity being given me by a friend of the deceased; but I
 have calculated the directions which produced his death. The
 horoscope is set precisely to the estimate time of birth, and I have
 inserted it without the slightest alteration. The moon in the
 nativity, is the true hyleg, for, by her mundane position, she is
 more than seven degrees beneath the ascending horizon; and the
 native’s death was occasioned by an attack of erysipelas, of which
 he died on the 14th June, 1824, at the age of forty-two years and
 nearly three months; at which time the moon came to a zodiacal
 arallel of the planet Mars, in about eight degrees of the sign
 aurus, followed by an evil train of directions that could not fail
 to destroy life, and which were as follows :—
 Arc.
 ) zod. par. 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 41° 38'
 ) sesquiquadrate 6 in mundo converse 44 21
 D d 6 in_ the zodiac. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44 45
 D <5 6 in mundo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 47 3
 D d 6 in zod. without latitude. . . . . .. 48 20
 Date.
 Years. Months.
 42 3 Death
 45 o
 45 5
 47 9
 49 o
 The astrological cause for the disease of which he died, may
 be attributed chiefly to the circumstance of the place where the
 parallel fell, being in sesquiquadrate to Jupiter, and in semiquar
 tile to Herschell, together with the preponderance of the planets
 in fiery signs at birth, which could not fail to produce inflamma
 tory diseases.
 It is singular that the direction which produced his death was
 not complete at the time he died. The parallel was not fully
 formed till several months afterward, which is a curious circum
 stance, and confirms the opinion of Placidus, who frequently
 found that, in a parallel, the eflfect took place some time previous
 to the exact completion of the arc itself, owing to the magnitude
 of the planetary bodies, which produces the efiect before their
 centres arrive to the same point of declination.
 In the secondary motion, it is worthy of remark, that the‘
 moon had attained to the fourth degree of Taurus, where she
 soon after met the radical conjunction of Mars. So that, on both
 the primary and secondary direction, she was placed in the same
 sign, and in both was free from any assistance of the fortunes.
 I should suppose, that no one who has studied the science atten
 tively will refuse to admit the moon as apheta. But should there
 be any who are so fond of opposition as to contend therewith, I
 will just mention, that the sun came by direction to the conjunc
 tion of Mars, both in zodiac and mundo, in the 32d and 33d
 years. But these directions no way affected life; yet they might
 have given great anxiety and trouble, as well as change of resi
232
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 dence: whether or not they really did so, I am not at present
 capable of ascertaining.
 THE NATIVITY OF HARRIETTE WILSON
 JANUARY 2,
 1783.
 3 H. 30M. P.M.
 “The harlot Venus reigns, anon,
 Let Mars no aspect send,
 For quartile and opposition,
 To love is never friend.
 See maidens to your hapless loves,
 Beware the jest and glee,
 For jealousy if once awaked,
 Will make your true love's flee.”—OLD BALLAD.
 THE above singular horoscope, I have every reason to believe,
 is correct in point of time, as it was given to me by a lady of
 fashion, who was formerly well acquainted with the extraor
 dinary subject thereof; and who once accompanied her to the
 celebrated Mrs. Williams, for the purpose of astrological infor
 mation.
 There can scarcely be a more curious combination of celestial
 influence than is found in the above curious geniture, which
 merits particular attention from the astral student; for, at the
 first glance, we perceive the sun, moon, Saturn, Mercury, Venus,
 and Jupiter, to be all located in the same celestial sign, Capricorn,
 and the whole of these descending in the western part of the
 heavens; the planet Herschel, arising in the eastern angle, and
 opposed to this combination of celestial influence. These con
 figurations, according to the opinions and practice of the oldest
 and most famous astrologers, are indicative of a fate, superior in
 its nature, exalted in its changes, and productive of both riches
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 233
 and honor; but the most singular aspect is, the close conjunction
 of Saturn and Mercury, opposed by Herschel; when we take into
 consideration that Mercury rules all kinds of books, papers, writ
 ings, authorships, and letters, and that the Georgian planet signi
 f
 ies public opinion, we need seek no further cause for the sin
 gular manner in which the native has made herself conspicuous
 at the present period. But “verbum sapientia satis.” La belle
 Harriette will do well to remember that this singular aspect has
 other significations; and let not the fleeting effects of this con
 f
 iguration be considered as decisive of what it at present seems
 to portend, for, when Saturn and Mercury give any remarkable
 good, it too often happens that the result is tenfold more evil than
 the transitory benefit thereby acquired.
 The nativity is undoubtedly of a fortunate and commanding
 description, and the position of the stars, excellent in every
 instance save one, for a female to be born under. But in the 43d
 and 44th years, the celestial intelligencers seem very singularly
 posited, and the planet predominating at birth, may be probably
 clouded with certain sinister aspects, that it would not be exactly
 proper publicly to enumerate, therefore I shall conclude this
 subject by a hope, that the fair Harriette will not be led to slight
 celestial omens, but by using a proper caution at certain periods,
 endeavor to avert what may otherwise prove of serious import.
 April, 1825.
 THE NATIVITY OF A MILITARY OFFICER
 “Does not the history of all ages
 Record miraculous presages,
 And strange turns in the world's affairs
 Foreseen by astrologers?"
 “The sage drew forth his astrolobe,
 And cast a wary look;
 Quoth he, ‘Bright hero, have a care,
 For in the heaven's high book,
 I read a quartile most malign;
 And eke thy natal star
 Shall suffer most malevolently
 In this same cruel war:
 But Jupiter does thee befriend,
 And promise a happy end.” ’—OLn BALLAD.
 THE following remarks I have inserted, in order to convince
 the scientific student, that the doctrine of primary directions is
 the chief basis and groundwork whereupon the astrologer should
 build his predictions. The example above alluded to is the horo
 scope of a military officer, well known in the higher circles, with
 whose past‘life I am well acquainted, and whose nativity I some
 years since minutely calculated; since which period, the remark
 able fulfilment of my predictions induced him to request its
 insertion in the present collection of extraordinary genitures; a
234
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 re uest to which I accede the more readily, as it may possibly
 afflord some matter for the student to establish his theory of
 directional motion, particularly in regard to the measure of time
 used, &c. &c.
 The history of the native cannot be interesting, as, through
 motives of delicacy, I am not at liberty to publish his name till
 after his decease; but I will just mention, that he was descended
 Born
 Manon 20, 1794,
 Above Is Shown The Nativity Of A Military Officer Accord
 ing To Rules Of Ancient Astrologers
 from an ancient and honorable family, well known in the west of
 England, and born to a competent inheritance; that his parents
 died in the years of his minority, and that, for a time, his finances
 were much perplexed through vexatious litigation and the arti
 f
 ices of his guardians, who used every method to appropriate his
 '
 paternal estate to their own use, but in which they were disap
 pointed, through the sentence of the lord chancellor; the trial of
 which cause occupied much attention at that period.
 The whole of these events are plainly enough to be seen by
 the moon being in conjunction with the planet Mars, in opposi
 tion to Saturn, and the sun being in square to Jupiter; as well as
 by the part of fortune being governed by Saturn from an evil
 position.
 After this period, the native purchased a commission in the
 army; his regiment was destined to India, whither he went, and
 obtained not only the personal thanks of his commanding officer
 for his meritorious conduct, but received a vote of thanks from
 the Honorable East India Company. And it was during his stay
l
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 235
 in India that he formed a lucrative match, and became an early
 widower, inheriting an immense property at the death of his wife,
 which induced him soon after to throw up his commission, and
 return to his native land.
 It was in the year 1816 that I calculated his nativity, and up
 to the present time. It is with feelings of pleasure and satisfac
 tion that I announce the triumph of astrology, as the whole of
 my predictions have been most amply fulfilled; although others
 equally as important remain to be verified,—particularly the
 period of his decease, which I have also his request to publish,
 as he has had sufficient strength of nerve to bear even that
 prediction, which he wished me most particularly to calculate,
 esteeming it a real benefit with the inspired writer, whose words
 are, “Teach me to know the number of my days, that I may know.
 how frail I am.”
 A LIST OF THE DIFFERENT ARCS OF DIRECTION
 In The Foregoing Horoscope, Calculated By The Zodiacal Plani
 sphere, And Equated Secundem Artem
 ARCS OF DIRECTION.
 }) ,9 5 mundo
 YRS. MTHS.
 I
 .
 4 This malevolent position of the stars
 caused the death of the mother while
 on a voyage.
 O semisquare *2 II
 )) A 9 zgdiag
 G 6 Q mundo
 (3 (5 5 Zodiac;
 M C A 7-‘
 '
 '
 M_ C_ <5 1;
 G D 7-! c011.
 Q 6 *2 con.
 I) 8 5 C011.
 ) A O dlI'€ct
 15
 I5
 16
 I7
 22
 23
 24
 24
 25
 9 par. 25 con. ' 25
 )) A g; mundo
 26
 9 Atthis period his father died.
 8
 8 Thfise astpectsdgave léighl distifnqltion bf_p_r
 t e ex raor inary isp ay 0 is a ii
 ties at the place of his education.
 9 Eminent directions, which gave distin
 0
 guished notice from friends, a removal,
 and prosperous changes.
 8 When Mercury reached the mid-heaven,
 the decision of a lawsuit took place in
 the native's favor, whereby he became
 possessed of much property, and at
 tained some literary eminence.
 9 The sun, meeting the square of I1, caused
 a’ loss, by a loan of money and death
 of a relation.
 I
 Accusations and litigation, with vexa
 tious events.
 7 Avery unlucky period. At this time the
 native received a violent blow on the
 head (which I had exactly predicted
 would take place), and had a severe
 f
 it of illness. He also,‘ after his re
 covery, traveled, but still met with
 losses, crosses, and many perplexities.
 9 Under these directions he recovered his
 losses, and was promoted.
 10 Under these directions I had foreseen
 3
 much benefit; they caused marriage
 to a wealthy heiress, who was well de
 4
236
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ARCSOF DIRECTION.
 Q rapt par &
 Q rapt par b
 9 rapt par 2
 Q A & Con.
 Q A24 zodiac
 } +24 con:
 Y A : zodiac
 Q zod. par. &
 G) zod. par. 2
 YRS. MTHS.
 26
 27
 27
 28
 29
 32
 33
 33
 33
 Rapt.par.of b & 35
 36
 Asc. A G)
 Asc. A 9
 Q & D zodiac
 36
 38
 6
 O
 5
 O
 9
 9
 O
 2
 7
 3
 •6
 8
 5
 Q & 3 zodiac 38 9
 G) & 3 m.
 Q & b zodiac
 ) A# zodiac
 Q d 2 m.
 39
 39
 39
 4O
 O
 7
 9
 7
 scended-in stature tall, and remark
 ably fair and handsome.
 This caused a fever, and afterwards
 other troubles—particularly a narrow
 escape from being bit by a venomous
 reptile, while walking near the sea
 side.
 Illness of the wife, first being through a
 violent cold.
 The death of the wife now took place.
 Under this aspect of the planet he re
 turned to England, and had a prosper
 ous voyage; but soon after lost a
 friend.
 At this most fortunate period he re
 ceived a legacy from a female relation,
 which was chiefly landed property, in
 the west of England.
 FUTURE EVENTS
 The first of these directions will give a
 legacy, from a stout, fair, middle-aged
 person, who may reside at some great
 distance; and the latter denotes a voy
 age for profit; both are active and
 prosperous.
 Now must the native be extremely care
 ful of his health, for these lowering
 aspects of the celestial intelligencers
 portend a fearful storm, yet the direc
 tion will not affect life. The extremes
 of cold and heat are to be carefully
 avoided, for Mars and Saturn are hos
 tile both in nature and influence.
 This direction will give a vexatious law
 suit.
 Under the force of these directions, I
 expect the native will contract a sec
 ond marriage, more honorable, but less
 advantageous than the first.
 This may give a voyage, and slight dan
 ger by water, or some hurtful or nox
 ious liquid, by means of a female do
 mestic.
 Gloomy and lowering are the aspects of
 these pernicious stars. Evil rays and
 noxious influence ushers in the 39th
 and 40th years. Saturn and Mars com
 bine to afflict the alphetical orb, who
 is not upheld by a single ray of Jupiter
 or Venus; added to which, the moon
 beholds only Herschel, whose trine
 cannot assist in averting that which
 the fates portend. His destiny is now
 about to be fulfilled, and nothing but
 a miracle can prolong existence, after
 the period of 38 years and 9 months l
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 237
 The predictions in this nativity are a literal copy of the orig
 inal one, written as aforesaid by me, some years since: and it is
 but justice to the native to observe that he is acquainted most
 fully with the prediction of his death, and philosophically looks
 forward to the period when he will cease to be an inhabitant of
 these sublunary regions, and when the immortal spirit which now
 is clogged with its frail earthly tenement will be ushered into an
 eternity of pure and invigorated vitality:
 “The soul, secure in her existence, smiles
 At the drawn dagger, and defies its point;
 The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
 Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years,
 But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth,
 Unhurt amidst the war of elements,
 The wrecks of nature, or the crash of worlds!”
 “For come it slow, or come it fast,
 It is but death that comes at last.”
 NATIVITY OF A CHILD
 WITH THE PREDICTION OF HIS DEATH CALCU
 LATED BY TRIGONOMETRY
 BY “RAPHAEL’”
 APRIL 22, 1825,
 11h.
 Mane.
 51° 32'.
 “First in his east the glorious lamp was seen,
 Regent of day, and all the horizon round
 Invested with bright rays, jocund to run
 His longitude through heav'n's high road; the grey
 Dawn and the Pleiades before him danc'd,
 Shedding sweet influence.”—MILTON.
238
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE above geniture exhibits the face of the heavens at the
 birth of an infant, the son of a Builder in Thames Street, and
 whose death I have predicted will take place at the age of eight
 years and twelve days, or within the period of eight years and
 one month at farthest. The nativity is a singular one, but the
 sun claims the aphetical place, as giver of life, who is meridional;
 and in the sign Taurus, the planet Mars is the abscissor, or
 destroyer of life, who is likewise posited in the same sign, and
 void of any friendly ray to avert his hostile influence; conse
 quently, when the sun arrives to the conjunction of Mars, the
 native will pay the debt of mortality.
 The calculation is as follows, which will serve as a praxis for
 other trigonometrical calculations (therules for which I have
 laid down in the fourth circle of this work).
 _
 Deg. Min.
 R. A. of the mid-heaven. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 48'
 R. A. of the 0. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 49
 Right distance of the 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16
 Declination of the G) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12
 1
 II N
 Semi-diurnal arc of the G . . . . . . . . . . .. 105 46
 Then, as 105° 46', the sun’s arc, is to 90 degrees, so is the
 right distance, 16° 1', to the difference between its circle of posi
 tion and that of the meridian, 13° 37’ which, subtracted there
 from, gives his ascensional difference under his own pole, 2° 24’.
 To obtain the sun’s pole, proceed thus:
 Deg. Min.
 To the sine of the ascensional diff. . . . 2 24 . . 8,62I96
 Add the co-tangent of the declination. 12 11 . .1o,66574
 The sum is the tangent of the G) ’s pole 10 40 . . 9,2877o
 To calculate the direction of death, proceed thus:
 Deg. Min.
 Pole of the sun. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 0
 Ascensional difference of O . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 24
 Oblique ascension of 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27 25
 R. A. of 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 14
 Declination, North . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I5
 0
 Ascensional difference under the sun’s pole. . . . 2 54
 Oblique ascension of 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 35 20
 Subtract the oblique ascension of the 0 . . . . . . .. 27 25
 Arcof direction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 7 55
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 239
 Which,_turned into time, answers to eight years and twelve days
 —the time of death; Wl'l1cl'1 is the more certain, as Mars is in the
 ecliptic, and without any latitude.
 It has been well observed by an eminent writer,* that—There
 are some men of narrow views and grovelling conceptions, who,
 without the instigation of personal malice, treat every new
 attempt as wild and chimerical; and look upon every endeavor to
 depart from the beaten track as the rash effort of a warm imagi
 nation, or the glittering speculation of an exalted mind, that may
 please and dazzle for a time, but can produce no real or lasting
 advantage.
 These men value themselves upon a perpetual scepticism,
 upon believing nothing but their own senses, upon calling for
 demonstration where it cannot possibly be obtained, and, some
 times, upon holding out against it when it is laid before them:
 upon inventing arguments against the success of any new under
 taking, and, where arguments cannot be found, upon treating it
 with contempt and ridicule.
 Such have been the most formidable enemies of the greatest
 benefactors of the world; for their nations and discourse are so
 agreeable to the lazy, the envious, and the timorous, that they
 seldom fail of becoming popular and directing the opinions of
 mankind.
 The enemies of astrology are precisely of the stamp here
 described; and as the science has been hitherto considered only
 “asan expiring lion, which every ass might kick with impunity,”
 it is probable that the doctrines I have advanced may be treated
 with nothing short of contumely by the prejudiced enemies
 thereof: as an instance of which, I need only refer to the various
 encyclopaedias of the present day, the whole of which, with one
 exception only,1' have thought proper to decry the science—but,
 forsooth, without giving a single principle on which it is founded ;
 a most excellent way, surely, to explode a theory, which is above
 their comprehension; but which these dogmatical heroes of criti
 cism upon ancient learning would not dare to follow in descant
 ing upon any other science; because they would have to defend
 themselves from the satire of some living author. "The dead,”
 however, "tell no tales,” and these heroes of encyclopadiac
 mystery know well that there has been but one author who has
 treated of the science methodically for nearly half a century.
 Now, did these wiseacres really know the method to be effec
 tually pursued, in exploding any science devoid of truth, or had
 they skill to decipher these celestial arcana, they would take at
 least some half-a-dozen nativities of living characters, and hav
 ' Dr. Johnson.
 1' The Encyclopzdia Londinensis, article Astrology—where a clear statement is given
 of the principles and theory thereof, well worthy the reader’: attention.
240
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ing laid down the rules of the Astral Science, they would prove
 their truth or evasion, by comparing them with the lives and
 fortunes of the persons whose genitures were under research.
 This would be the most impartial, and, indeed, the only method
 of convincing mankind that Astrology is a delusion. But no;
 these persons either have never sufficiently learned the rudiments
 of the science to do this, or, if they have, are afraid to adopt a
 method which would certainly cover them with confusion and
 obloquy. And I will here challenge them, one and all, to produce
 a single nativity, where the rules I have laid down* for the
 edification of the young student have once failed. Let us, there
 fore, hear no more of astrology being a futile science,i for not
 only has it a foundation as stable as the universe, but it has been
 the admired study of the most renowned poets, lawgivers,_states
 men, orators, and sages, of all nations and in all ages. And, as
 a further proof thereof, I have selected, from amongst several
 thousand genitures, those of the most celebrated characters, most
 of which are either now living, or have had their lives and actions
 exposed to the test of. public opinion; and the authenticity of
 which cannot be doubted by the most fastidious. At the same
 time, they afford matter of much curious investigation to the
 philosophical inquirer, for if astrology continue to gain ground
 amongst the fashionable, in proportion to what it has done, since
 the publication of the first edition of this work, it will soon
 become not only highly popular, but will form a most conspicuous
 feature in the system of learning, as taught at the universities—
 where this work has been most extensively patronized.
 The science of Phrenology has become almost universally
 believed; but what are the doctrines of Phrenology, when com
 pared to those of Astrology? For not only can the Astrologer
 discern the moral and intellectual faculties and propensities to a
 far greater nicety than the Phrenologist, but he can foresee each
 particular event of life, and can discover the exact period when
 these propensities, either good or evil, will be called into action.
 He can most assuredly read “Heaven’s Golden Alphabet;” and
 in the bright configurations of fortunate stars, or the lowering
 shades of hostile irradiations, he foresees, with an unerring eye,
 the different prospects, as they individually appear in the vista
 of futurity_; thus possessing a knowledge which, of all others,
 approaches the nearest to divinity, even as the science itself is, of
 all others, the most sublime and beautiful. Even astronomy,
 without the sister science of Siderial Influence, is but a “casket
 ' Se_e CHAPTER VI. of this work.
 1' It is an authenticated fact, that no one can be at all considered a skilful Astrologer,
 or worthy of implicit confidence, who has not had a liberal education; or, at least, he
 should be well versed in mathematical rinciples and the philosophy of nature. The
 calculation of_a nativity is most intimate y connected with geometrical science and alge
 braical analysis—it requires the aid of numbers, logarithms, and trigonometry, brought
 into use by a clear sound judgment and extensive experience. Professors of this descrip
 tion are rarely met with.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 241
 without a jewel,” and presents but a mighty combination of
 numbers and nothingness. Who, then, shall dare to revile the
 astrologer? who shall dare to gainsay the superiority he possesses
 over the professors of all other science? He alone, of all other
 students, can, with propriety, adopt the words of Milton :—
 “Into the heav'n of heav’ns I have presumed,
 An earthly guest, and drawn ernpyreal air."
 The fates have decreed his destiny; the horoscope of his
 fortunes ‘is fixed, and unalterable as the' laws of the universe
 (subject only to divine control); and, while absorbed in con
 templation of those celestial orbs, whether fixed or erratic,
 benign or malevolent, he alone can be resigned in all things to
 that which he has foreseen, and is the only true philosopher that,
 like the eagle, can soar in the meridian brightness of the sun of
 science, leaving all others, at an immeasurable and almost infinite
 distance, to grope their way amidst paths of theoretic darkness,
 or the glimmering of erudite scepticism.
 To the clemency, and perhaps lustre of the stars, the whole
 vegetable kingdom may owe, for aught we know, much of its
 growth and richness; and our waters would instantly become
 stagnant and putrid, but for the moon, who presides as mistress
 of the great deep, ruling the ebbing and flowing of the tides, as
 well as cheering our darkest nights by her silver beams.
 Who is not susceptible of the heat of the sun, and perceives
 not the firmament so bespangled with shining orbs, in beauteous
 concert and variety? These immense globes consist of matter
 altogether above our comprehension. And who can tell but all
 the worlds in our system may habitually elicit such powers in
 their evolutions as affect, impress, and regulate our atmosphere
 in a thousand different ways? There is not a fact more plain
 than planetary influence over the animal frame; for, doubtless,
 the human constitution is as sensible of super-mundane agency
 as any other body of equal magnitude on the surface of our
 globe; and as ours is only the part of a system, it cannot but share
 in the laws of the whole. To prove this grand link between
 celestial and terrestrial objects, and to establish its theory, is the
 aim of astrology, and which invariably leads its votary to “look
 through nature up to nature’s god,” and to solve the grand
 mysteries of the universe.
 Such are the advantages of this celestial science; and lest
 some may accuse me of anonymously defending what I would
 otherwise publicly refuse to own, I have subjoined my real name
 and address, where those who thirst for this heavenly knowledge,
 and are desirous of drinking from the “Wells of Science," will
 meet with any information they may solicit, ‘ as it respects
 ASTROLOGY and the doctrine of the SlarS.—RAPHAEL.
CHAPTER XXII
 A SYNOPSIS OF GEOMANCY
 THE SCIENCE OF CASTING CELESTIAL LOTS
 As Practised In Former Times By The Chaldean, Arabian, and
 Rosycrucian Philosophers
 “And as touching the first, it is written in the beginning of the epistle
 made to Pope Clement, from the beginning all others using, Abraham being
 an Astrologian, by the resone and ordre of the stars, he knew the maker of
 all, the which by his providence, ruleth and can temper all things.—And an
 angel being assistant unto him, plainly taught him that which by nature he
 desired to lerne; and the very prophet that oonly knoweth the hert and
 purposes of men, seeing him so desirous to know the causes and y” effect
 of kinde, he appered to him, and gave him his desire.
 “Soothly, Geomancy is a science out of Astrology, teaching to judge by
 figures of lynes of points, or whether in earth or by earth, casually is made
 projection. And the projection of points is formed of an hand, ruled by a
 reasonable soul, moved in ye hour of ye question, of the form of the thing
 a coming, the which is had in the mynde of the projector, the succession
 of which is open, by the signification of the figures ye which he intendeth to
 exploit. And as the earthe is the modre of all generable and corruptible
 things, of the heavenly bodies there abideth some impression, and so ancient
 242
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 243
 doctors, making projection of points, found the figures set in the heaven,
 by the ordre of fixt stars, as shall be plainly shewed."—ANc1ENr MANU
 SCRIPT.
 "Roderick. Verily I think thou wert born under Rubeus, and moreover
 thou hast a scar in thy face.
 "Walter. If I am, as thou sayest, under that self-willed sign, I shall
 not fail to make thee as vile, for though art under Career, the six-dotted
 f
 igure of prisonment q. e. d. a truce to thy councelling—for thy divining
 is full unfortunate. See, soyez assure, I have the golden acquisitio, in my
 hand. What care I for sand or pointel, or thy doctrine.”-01.1) PLAY.
 TH1s curious science termed Geomancy is of high antiquity,
 and was in great repute amongst the ancient Chaldeans, Baby
 lonians, Hebrews, Arabians, and other Orientalists. It was a
 favorite study amongst the Druids, and constitutes a singular
 feature at the present day in freemasonry, it being the chief study
 of the Rosie Crucians, and was much practised by that singular
 race of beings whose secrets are now in the care of that society.
 In the Holy Scriptures we have frequent mention made of
 “casting lots,” which was, no doubt, a species of geomantic
 divination, and was allowed as a final decision amongst the early
 Christians. In remote ages, the answers given by the seers as
 recorded in holy writ, was no doubt given by this species of
 curious knowledge. And in later years, we have had many
 professors thereof, although not since the seventeenth century:
 yet few have given the subject the consideration it merited; for
 there is little doubt but it might in proper hands be brought to
 such perfection, as to become almost an universal knowledge;
 and as it does not require so much attention to arithmetical data,
 as astrology, it becomes far more facile and pleasing, on that
 account. The best writers on the subject* are Cattan, who wrote
 in the sixteenth century, and after him Heydon and Case, al
 though each of these works are very scarce and difficult to be
 '
 obtained, and which are only useful as books of reference,
 although neither of them are competent to teach the art cor
 rectly.
 We will trespass no farther by way of preface, but
 proceed to give a synopsis of the science, as collated from the
 best sources of information, which we could procure.
 ‘The Author has in his possession a rare old illuminated folio manuscript of the
 fourteenth century, (part of w icli may be still more ancient) which treats of geomanc
 in a stile the most extraordinary, and gives a com lete analysis and system thereo .
 This inestimable relic of antiquity, is invaluable, an has been traced to the successive
 possessions of Chaucer, the ancient poet (and father of En lish verse), the unfortunate
 Earl of Essex_ in Queen Elizabeth’: time, Percy the gallant arl of Northumberland_ and
 other ancient worthies. It is in excellent preservation, in the English language, and
 affords a singular proof of the indefatigable attention bestowed on the science: by our
 forefathers. Eflracts therefrom will be given in the following pages.
244
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 A TABLE OF THE SIXTEEN GEOMANTIC FIGURES
 *. ** *... re.
 >EMinor. 
*
 #w
#
# * #
# *-*
 # == :
 These figures, in number sixteen, are attributed to the four
 elements, which the ancients asserted were the basis of all sub
 lunary things:—
 Figuresof the Fire. Figures of the Air FiguresoftheEarth.|Figuresofthe Water.
• .*---- •- • •l e • •----
 * • • ... • * • •- © • • *t e
 a • * * * ~ * • I • • • • • • * • • • • • * •--
 “The Fiery this, and the Terene compose,
 This with the watery and the airy glows,
 Hence the prevailing humors, hence we scan
 •
 The never failing character of man.”—MENTOR STELLARUM.
 THE METHOD OF CASTING THE CELESTIAL LOTS*
 “And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Matthias, and he
 was numbered with the eleven apostles.”—ACTs 2, 26.
 ACCORDING to the system of the ancients, as the manuscript
 which we have consulted exemplifies, the diviner, or seer, who
 wishes to predict by these lots, should procure a quantity of clean
 earth or clean sand, either of which should be mixed with water,
 for seven days, in equal portions; which should be done either
 * In the new edition of the Arabian Nights, edited by Dr. Scott, mention is made
 of geomancy-vide the tale of Aladdin.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 245
 under the arising of the fortunate constellations, or in the hours
 of the seven planets; and when this is done, the earth so formed
 into portions should be mixed together, in a fortunate day and
 hour, whereby they affirm that “the universal effect may be more
 plainly and easily known and declared.” Others made their
 figure in wax tables, but they all declare that the projection on
 earth, is the surest and most conducive to the discovery of truth;
 and that the figure should not be made or cast at any time, but
 that divination should only be made “when the weather is bright
 and clear, and neither dark nor windy, for distemperance in the
 elements, may cause changes in the passions of the soul.” They
 also affirm, that when a figure is made, or judged, “the moon
 should be free from all impediment, for if the moon apply to
 Saturn or Mars, the soul thereby is inclined to lie, and also, that
 the figure should be made with the most sincere desire to ascer
 tain the truth thereof.
 THE MODERN METHOD
 The modern method of casting these celestial lots, is by mak
 ing the points either upon paper or a slate, with any convenient
 instrument, either pen, crayon, chalk, pencil, or pointer, which
 ever may be the nearest at hand; and the modern Geomancers
 affirm that great verity may be found in the art, when thus prac
 tised, although they allow that the ancient method is the more
 exact.*
This being seriously thought of, and the mode thereof selected,
 the diviner must proceed to make sixteen lines of points, which
 points must be made from right to left, contrary to the usual
 mode of writing; and in so doing he must not count the number
 of points he makes, but leave that entirely to chance, or to the
 sympathetic impulse which will guide the hand, so as to produce
 a figure corresponding to the true answer of the event sought
 after.
 The following example will suffice to set this doctrine in an
 easy light:
 EXAMPLE OF FORMINGTHE POINTS
 •-- *-* *-e •-. ,-, ...-a--- e • © (b
 •"e e-s •-,--,--,--,--, e.
 •"• **e •=e •=e s-e--- ***- e.
 •"• *-*--- a-- .-,--,--,--,
*
 * *
 *
 * The members of the Mercurii have found the most astonishing truth in figures of
 geomancy, and at their meetings they have not failed to put the science frequently to the
 test, when the utmost satisfaction has been the result.
246
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC--,--,-,--,--,--,-,--,-,- .**--,-,--,-,--,--,--,--,--,--, ... ." *
 *
 •-,--,--,--,--e e-e •-,--,
 •-,--,-->--,--,--,--,--,--, .
 • *-e •----,--,--,--,--,--,--,--. . .
 •-. .-,-,--,--,--,--,--,--,--, .
 •=.--,--,--,--,--,--,--,--,
 •-. ,-,--,--,--,-,-,--. . .
 •-e-----,--,--,--,--,--,--,--, .
 *
 to the
 o
 *
 * @
 ©--,-,-,-,-,-,-,-,--...-...-. •
 •-,--,--,--,--,--,--,--,
o
 The points being made as above directed, let them be joined
 together two and two, leaving the last points unjoined, as in the
 example, where the first line being even, two points are left; the
 second line being odd, one point is left; and so of the rest.
 This being done, arrange the four figures thus found, in
 order, from right to left, calling the first No. 1, the second No. 2,
 and so of the others, thus:
 4
 3
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 2
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 I
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 Then proceed to take the points of each figure, as they stand
 in a line, and form thereof another figure; thus in the first line of
 the figure, No. 1, are 2 points; in No. 2, 2 points; in No. 3, 1
 point; and in No. 4, 2 points; which, collected together, form this
 symbol:—
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 Do the same with the lines of the other three figures, which
 will give the second row of figures, thus:
 8
 7
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 6
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 Which are termed No. 5, 6, 7, and 8.
 5
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 7
 247
 These being found, place the whole eight in a line thus:—
 8
 6
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 5
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 4
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 3
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 2
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 I
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 And then join each figure to its companion; that is to say—take
 the number of points in the first and second, third and fourth, and
 so of the rest, calling two or four points even, and one or three
 points odd, by which means you find out four other figures, which
 are placed thus:—
 8
 7
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 6
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 I2
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 5
 O0
 OO
 C
 Ot
 4
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 II
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 IO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 3
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 And which correspond to Nos. 9, 10, II, and 12.
 2
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 9
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 I
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 This being done, you have the whole of the figures, which
 occupy the twelve geomantic houses,” and which constitute the
 chief part of the scheme. But there yet remain four other acci
 dental figures, namely, the two witnesses, the judge, and the
 sixteenth figure.
The witnesses are formed from the 9th and Ioth, and the two
 adjoining figures in the second row, and are these:—
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 And the judge is formed from out of these two, in like
 manner, and is—
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 ." According to the Persians, the planets in their own houses, are in their towers,
 or citadels of strength.
248
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 The formation of the sixteenth figure, has been hitherto un
 known, but it is of the utmost consequence in the formation of
 the judgment, especially where the answer seems ambiguous, and
 we will therefore give the secret of finding it, which is done by
 joining together the 1st and 15th figures (the judge), and out of
 these extracting the figure in question. The sixteenth figure is:—
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 Wewill now place the figure inits proper order, as it will give
 a clear idea of the process.
 8th house. 7th house. 6th house. 5th house. 4th house. 3rd house. 2nd house. 1st house.
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 12th house.
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 11th house.
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 Left witness.
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 10th house.
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 Right witness.
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 Judge.
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 Sixteenth Figure.—The final result."
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
OO
 OO
 O
 O
 9th house.
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 * This sixteenth figure signifieth the cause of the question, and confirmation of the
 judgment made by the 15th, and thereby we may know what shall fall of ye thing asked
 after the accomplishing of ye judgment of ye question.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE MANNER OF DIVINING BY GEOMANCY
 249
 In order to be perfect in the use of Geomancy, it is absolutely
 necessary that the student should be well acquainted with the
 science of astrology, as illustrated in the fourth circle of this
 work, and to which we refer the reader for information, as it re
 gards the houses and quality of the seven planets; which are made
 use of in Geomancy, in the same manner, except as far as the
 symbolical nature of the figures themselves are concerned.
 THENATUREOFTHESIXTEEN FIGURES
 OF GEOMANCY
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 Acquisitio—Is the best of the whole sixteen figures, and is a
 sign of riches, joy, gain, acquisition, profit, and a good end of all
 enterprises; it is the symbol of good fortune, of honor, renown,
 and happiness; it denotes long life, fortunate marriages, and
 success in every undertaking. It is a figure of Jupiter, and under
 the sign Aries, it is exalted in the first house, and has its fall in
 the seventh, which is to be judged the same as in Astrology.
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 Amissio—Is an evil figure, being the symbol of loss, and small
 profit; it also is found to be generally evil in most undertakings,
 and is an issuing figure. It is under Venus, and the sign Scorpio,
 its exaltation is in the 8th, and its fall in the 2nd house.
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 Fortuna Major—Is the symbol of wealth and rank, of power,
 honor, and dignity, and of an exceeding great name. It is sin
 gularly good in all matters of gain, and to be preferred to none
 but acquisitio. It is ruled by the sun, and is under the sign
 Aquarius; its exaltation is in the IIth house, and its fall in
 the 5th.
250
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Fortuna Minor—Is the lesser fortune, it betokens disappoint
 ments and but small gain, being an issuing and wasteful figure;
 yet is good for dignities, although evil in matters of profit. It is
 ruled by the sun, and is partially under Taurus; its exaltation is
 in the first house, and its fall in the 7th, or western angle.
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 Letitia—Is the figure emblematical of joy, gladness, fullness of
 pleasure, and gay delights; endearments, profit, gain, and all
 favorable things, which it signifies similar to acquisitio. It is a
 very fortunate symbol wherever found, and productive of success.
 It is under Jupiter, and the sign Taurus; it is exalted in the
 second house, and its fall is in the 8th opposite.
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 Tristitia—Is the origin or source of sorrow, melancholy, heavi
 ness of heart, lowness of spirits, dolor, grief, malice, and mis
 chief, and is extremely unfortunate in all the affairs she may
 signify. She is also the cause of loss, disgrace, and trouble. It
 is under the evil planet Saturn, and the sign Scorpio, it has its
 exaltation in the 8th, and its fall in the 2nd house.
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 Rubeus—Is another no less vicious and wretched figure, it is the
 source of war and bloodshed, signifying guile, deceit, and per
 version of truth; and intestine quarrels, animosities, and discord.
 It is highly unfortunate in every undertaking; when it is found in
 the ascendant, geomancers frequently destroy the figure. It is
 under Mars, in the sign Gemini; it is exalted in the 3rd house,
 and has its fall in the 9th.
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 Albus—Is a figure termed meanly good, and oftentimes conduces
 to gain; especially in affairs of science and learning. It is under
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 251
 Mercury, and the sign Cancer. It is exalted in the 6th house, and
 its fall in the 12th house, which is opposite thereto.
 Conjunctio—Is a figure of gathering or conjoining; it is a con
 trovertible figure, good with good, and evil with evil; it is a symbol
 of a funeral, “for it representeth the bier on which dead men are
 borne.” The points being 2 before, 2 behind, and 2 in the
 centre;” it is under Mercury, retrograde in Virgo. It is a bicor
 poreal figure, exalted in the 6th house, and has its fall in the
 I2th house.
 f
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 Carcer—Is the emblem of a prison, imprisonment, close shut-up
 places, close vessels, and is amazingly evil, as its name imports.
 It gives loss in all things, poverty and wretchedness, it is also
 unlucky in every undertaking; it is under Saturn, and the sign
 Pisces; it is exalted in the 12th house, and has its fall in the 6th
 house, or house of evil fortune.
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 Populus—Is the symbol of a multitude, a congregation, an
 assembly, a confused retinue. It is generally accounted evil and
 unpropitious; and generally signifies moving or journeys.
 It is under the full moon, in the sign Capricorn, and is exalted
 in the 2nd house, having the fall in the 8th.
 :
 Via—Is the figure of quickness and facility; of travelling,
 removals, journeys, and voyages. It is a wasting and dissipating
 figure, and unlucky in all matters of gain or profit. It denotes
 hasty news and short visits, when found in the scheme.
 * Ancient manuscript.
*- =***----- *~ * ****--
252
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 It is under the new moon in Leo, and is exalted in the 5th
 house, having its fall in the IIth.
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 Caput—Is the symbol of the dragon's head, and is generally
 accounted as fortunate and propitious in the undertakings. It is
 good for matters of gain, and in money-affairs is well. It signi
 fies something quickly coming on, being an entering figure.
 It is the Dragon's Head in Virgo, and is a commixture of
 Jupiter and Venus conjoined.
 :
 Cauda—Is the symbol of evil and misfortune, disgrace, scandal,
 slander, poverty, and ruin. It wastes the substance, annoys the
 asker, and hinders the undertaking. It is always and at all times
 evil.
 This is the Dragon's Tail in Sagittarius, formed out of a
 mixture of Saturn and Mars.
 :
 Puella—Is a pleasant and favorable symbol; it signifies fulfil
 ment of wishes, joy and contentment, success in love, and many
 equally propitious events; it is favorable also in money affairs;
 it is the sacred emblem of the cross; and is ever found to be a
 sign of equality, justice, and devotion. It is under the planet
 Venus and the sign Libra. It is exalted in the seventh house, and
 has its fall in the ascendant.
 O
 o
 OO
 O
 Puer—Is the emblem of a drawn sword, and of war, battle, hos
 tility, quarrels, contentions, and civil discords. It conduces but
 poorly to gain or profit, being naturally evil and malignant; con
 sequently no success can attend the question, where it is a sig
 nificator. It is under Mars, and the warlike sign Aries, the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 253
 ascendant of England. It is exalted in the first house, and has its
 fall in the angle opposite.
 In order to judge from the figures,” as before observed, the
 student must learn to be well acquainted with the essential and
 accidental dignities, stations, aspects, and positions of the geo
 mantic emblems, and be ready in his reference to the twelve
 celestial houses, by which means, if he be sincere in his wishes,
 the most astonishing answers may be obtained.
 EXAMPLES IN GEOMANCY
 IN order to perfect the reader in this amusing knowledge, we
 shall subjoin a few interesting examples.
 EXAMPLE I
 A Figure, Or Geomantic Scheme, Set For The Spitalfields
 Silk-Weavers
 8
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 7
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 I2
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 6
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO.
 5
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 II
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 4
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 IO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 3
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 2
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 9
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 I
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 *
 N.
 •
 * The Author scarcely need make any remark,to impress upon the minds of his
 readers the necessity of being serious in their trials, and with a full desire to attain
 a correct answer, as they will find from experience, that the hidden mysteries of nature
 are only to be obtained by an earnest and serious desire to come at the truth; but if
 trifiers try them, they try only to be trifled with.
254
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 This figure of geomancy was cast for the purpose of ascer
 taining the result of the bill then pending in Parliament, respect
 ing the Spitalfields silk-weavers, viz. whether they or their
 opponents would obtain the victory, at the time they were peti
 tioning against the bill.
 By examination of the scheme, it will be found that Amissio
 and Venus rule the first house, or ascendant of the silk-weavers,
 and admirably represent this business in hand, while Tristitia, a
 figure of Saturn in the Ioth house, is symbolical of a decline and
 falling-off in this trade; and Carcer in the house of wealth and
 gain, a most evil figure, likewise governed by Saturn in his most
 malevolent debilities, sufficiently indicates great loss both to the
 workmen and their masters. Part of this evil has already taken
 place, but much more, unfortunately, remains to come.
 As we were required by several scientific gentlemen to give
 our opinion whether the bill, then pending, would be passed, or
 thrown out altogether, we gave it as our decided opinion, that the
 opponents of this industrious and numerous class of manufac
 turers would be the likeliest to gain the victory; but, as the two
 witnesses are ruled by Mercury, and Populus the judge, con
 trovertible in nature, while the 16th figure moves in the ascend
 ant we expected that the bill would receive a partial alteration
 favorable to the petitioners against it.
 It is scarcely necessary to hint, how truly every part of the
 above prediction has been verified, to the credit and advancement
 of the science.*
 There are several other topics relative to the above class of
 persons, which may be gathered from the figure,—as, for in
 stance, Fortuna Major in the 9th house, showing success in this
 manufacture to foreigners. Cauda Draconts in the 12th house,
 denoting coolness in the petitioners' friends, and many secret
 enemies; and Populus, in the 4th house, denoting the depreciation
 of the article in question; while the fixed nature of several
 significators are likely to cause the whole of these evils to be of
 long duration, and upon the increase. Conjunctio in the 8th
 house is also typical of short life to the principal agitators of the
 bill and its supporters, which is yet to be fulfilled, although not
 many seasons will elapse before this will be verified !
 * Neither do they terminate. But evil succeeds to evil, and many moons shall pass
 by ere the train which is now fixed shall have spent its forces,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 EXAMPLE II
 255
 Figure Cast For The Year In Which The Late Queen Caroline
 Died, And Which Most Remarkably Prefigured Her Dissolution
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 ...
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 *This figure of geomancy was erected in the month of May,
 1821, for the purpose of foreknowing what the fate of that year
 would be to Queen Caroline, as the affairs of that unfortunate
 princess were then the general topic of public conversation.
 In the first house is found the figure Puer, a masculine and
 martial figure, and well expressing the determination and intre
 pidity of this illustrious lady, which seemed to have carried her at
 times beyond her sex.
 In the second house, Puella, a figure of Venus, is favorable
 for pecuniary resources, and Caput Draconis, or the Dragon's
 Head, in the 4th house, symbolically predicts a name and reputa
 tion, which should survive the lapse of ages in the page of his
 tory. The masculine figure Fortuna Minor, in the 5th house, or
 house of pleasure and enjoyment, signifies that which the atten
 tive student is aware we must not fully express.
 But the most remarkable position is the movement of the first
 figure (which signified the queen personally) into the house of
 death! And this figure being noted by Mars, not only showed,
 beforehand, that she would die that year, but that the death
 should be in a manner sudden and unexpected.
 Tristitia, a figure of Saturn (the evil fortune), in the house
 of honor, and the figure in the house of enemies, significator of
 the husband also, ruling the house of friends, clearly showed the
 *Ambrose Merlin, the Welsh prophet, declares that the chariot of the moon shall
 disturb the zodiac, and the Pleiades shall break forth into lamentations. "Which Lilly
 interprets to mean great commotions amongst the common people and contempt of their
 superiors.
256
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 heavy disappointment and fatality which followed the whole of
 the actions of this royal native, from the time of setting this
 figure to that of her death—all which happened precisely as we
 predicted.
 ALFRED.
 EXAMPLE III
 Figure Of The World For The Year Of The Coronation;
 Cast March 16, 1821
 8
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 7
 O
 O
 O
 O
 I2
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 6
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 I4
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 5
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 II .
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 4
 OO
 ...
 I5
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 3
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 IO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 2
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 I3
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 I
 OO
 OO
 O
 O.
 9
 O
 O
 O
 This figure is a striking example that, by Geomancy, we may
 not only judge the fate of private individuals, but also of king
 doms, states and empires; for Fortuna Major in the ascendant
 and eleventh house, and Populus in the mid-heaven, plainly
 showed the auguast ceremonies for which the year 1821 was
 distinguished. Fortuna Major being the significator of honor,
 power, and greatness; and Populus the significator of immense
 congregations and multitudes of people, both of which were
 typical of these events; neither were the evils that followed less
 plainly shown by Rubeus, the evil witness, and Carcer, the malev
 olent judge, and final significator of the whole figure.
 “Thus do the planets bear the sovereign rule
 Away from mortals, who, short-sighted as
 The mole or bat, who only see in darkness,
 Despise the science of our heav'nly lore.
 But we revere the stars.”—ANCIENT RHYME.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 EXAMPLE IV
 Figure For The End Of The Year 1824
 8
 oo
 o
 oo
 oo
 7
 o
 oo
 0
 o
 12
 o
 o
 o
 o
 6
 o
 o
 0
 o
 I4
 oo
 o
 oo
 o
 5
 oo
 0
 oo
 o
 1 I
 o
 oo
 o
 oo
 4
 o
 o
 o
 oo
 15
 oo
 o
 o
 00
 3
 oo
 0
 o
 oo
 I0
 o
 oo
 oo
 oo
 13
 oo
 oo
 oo
 o
 '0
 257
 2
 0
 o
 o
 '
 oo
 I
 oo
 o
 o
 oo
 9
 o
 o
 0
 Conjunctio ascending, denotes the time will be busy, active,
 and remarkable. Much news and rumors, both true and false;
 and the evil positions of CAUDA in the 4th house, and Rubeus in
 the house of death, are symbolical of heavy calamities, sudden
 deaths, murders, suicides, robberies, duels, quarrels, and many
 fatalities. These figures foreshow the ruin of many an upstart,
 and will pull down the pride of many pretenders. A clergyman,
 a religious votary, seems ensnared in the wiles of a fair devotee,
 devoted to love as well as holiness; whispers are abroad concern
 ing it, but Plutus opens his coffers, and. all for a time goes on
 well. The heartless Amissio, in the nth house, will deceive many
 in their fondest expectations. But yet there are some who, born
 under more genial influence, will be amazingly prosperous.
 “Full many a coward frowns in impotence,
 Full many a needless boast i_s utter’d ; but
 The planets show the mischief."—ANosws.
258
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 EXAMPLE V
 The Geomantic Destiny Of Charles X., King Of France
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 oo
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 oo
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 “Bold Arthur drew his line from hence,
 And Jove, in his best mood, bequeath'd
 His lineal succession;—hence the star
 Of knighthood reigns.
 But yet this figure warns thee to beware;
 For whoso Career threatens seldom yet
 Has conquer’d death and liv'd to hoary age.
 The points of this said scheme, even as
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 The sand in which they're made, are fleeting.”
 .
 OO
 OO
 O
 Q
 O
 O
 —ANCIENT LEGEND.
 Geomancy may well be termed extraordinary knowledge, for
 by its practice we may discover the principal event of every
 undertaking, without inquiring as to time or place, so necessary
 in Astrology; and thus does Geomancy afford a fund of rational
 amusement, not to be exceeded by any other science, when rightly
 practised: but that there are few who understand its practice is
 certain.
 Now, here we have Fortuna Major ascending, which leads us
 to suppose the illustrious native is under the sign Aquarius, and
 under the solar reign. Rubeus, in the 4th and 5th, argue no issue,
 and the 7th, going to the 9th, confounds marriage through priest
 craft, while the lord of the ascendant, ruling this figure in the
 9th house, shows his infatuation as it relates to religious cere
 monials. But Cauda in the 8th and house of death, with Rubeus
 in the 4th, or north angle, are no very flattering testimonies, they
 evidently import danger by falls, bruises, or animals; and one of
 the family will suffer by fire. Yet it is probable the native may
 live to acquire honor enough, for Acquisitio in the Ioth is a good
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTs
 259
 figure. But what sort of a name will Rubeus, in the 4th, give
 after death? This should be looked to by his panegyrists. I
 have sent this horoscope to the famous astrologer, M. le Nor
 mand, of Paris, in order that she might give the illustrious native
 notice of what will befal him—if his courtiers will permit the
 friendly warning of danger.
 Looking at the figure impartially, it seems to denote much
 celebrity, esteem, and notoriety, were this all—but there is a
 scourge prepared for the Gallic nation in no very distant quarter,
 and another more distant—but of which we shall forbear to
 speak; yet the reign of this monarch shall not go by without wars
 and rumors of wars, and the north shall give cause of terror.
 August, 1825.
 ALFRED.
 EXAMPLE VI
 A Figure For The Lion Fight At Warwick, Cast On The
 Morning Of The Combat
 (Communicated by a Correspondent.)
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 Letitia, which answers to Jupiter in Taurus, being in the
 ascendant plainly denoted the generosity and magnanimity of
 that noble animal, it being the house of life of the lion, and
 Rubeus in the 12th denoted the ferocity of his opponents. But
 the Judge being evil, and amissive, denoted that the lion stood no
 chance of gaining the combat, as it proved.
- =-------------------
 260
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 EXAMPLE VII
 (Communicated by a Correspondent.*)
 FIGURE FOR THE AUTUMNAL QUARTER, 1825
 “Here Carcer wages war with Populus,
 And tyranny does lord it. Hence, begone;
 For dead men tell not tales. And much I fear,
 That malice, lynx-eyed, silent, waits her prey;
 Sir Geoffrey.” “Ha! say'st so; by my loyalty,
 This arm shall wield the lance, the falchion
 Temper’d so keenly; and my own stout heart,
 Better than sevenfold shield, shall spurn submission.
 Sage, I thank thee.”—OLD PLAY.
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 CAPUT in the first, and CAUDA in the eighth house, are evil
 and good together remarkably blended; but TRISTITIA in the 4th
 house, and the first figure opposed by the 7th, and in square to
 figures of SATURN and MERCURY, denotes immense losses by
 fire, theft, piracy, and convulsions of nature, most of which will
 take place here in England, and the metropolis will not be free
 from its share thereof; but in our eastern possessions, rapine and
 hostility are more than generally predominant: commerce, how
 ever, will flourish. But a great one dies; and ere the holy fes
 tival is commenced to commemorate the birth of Christians’ hope,
 Rome or Italy shall have suffered a shock which may be long felt
 in that and other parts of the continent.
 * See also “Urania, or the Astrologer's Chronicle,” page 59; where many curious
 predictions are made from geomancy.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 EXAMPLES FROM CHAUCER'S MANUSCRIPT
 EXAMPLE VIII
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 Oo
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 261
 “Our extracts, it will be seen, consist rather of facts than arguments,
 though they are pretty conclusive as to the latter.”—LITERARY CHRONICLE.
 “ONE, being in the age of judgment, doubted whether he
 shall have any substance or possession of his father, that was a
 rich man; and he made his question to a geomancian, and asked
 whether he shoud have abundance of goods, and what goods they
 shall be, and by what means he should gete them, and what tyme.
 And such projection as above happened.
 Now, I beheld the 2nd house, and found therein Fortuna
 Major, that is a laudable figure, acquisitive and entrant, that
 signifieth him to have good, and because he was joined” to good
 and laudable figures, that affirmeth it the more steadfast. But
 for the 2nd, is light in point, it seemeth that goods shall come to
 him lightly; and in the beginning of that time that he made y”
 question in, and as the 15th was good, it signifieth finally lucre,
 substance, and possession, to the asker, and as the 15th is found
 in the 3rd and 7th houses, received, but not located (for he was
 in his fall, where he sorroweth). Natheless, as me seemeth, he
 is joined with good, it signifieth y' in the end of his lyfe, and in
 the beginning of y" age y' he is in, he shall wynne by the meens
 of his brethren, wyfe, and felowes. And because Acquisitio, that
 is figured in Aries, is not located in the 7th, for it is there opposed
 to y” house of his formation; that signifieth that the asker hath
 * The conjunction is of great force in all questions of geomancy. For, as in
 astrology, the light planets partake of the nature of those with whom they are joined.
 in this science, the figures are supposed thereby to change either to good or
*=--------
262
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 no great hope to gete his goods, by the aforesaid meens, but
 because the figure is laudable and good, and a figure of Jupiter,
 signifying science and wisdome, it signifieth the asker, by his
 prudence, to come to riches. Therefore, the asker is well dis
 posed to have grete riches, as the question supposeth he shall
 have pounds, and Fortuna Major representeth 8 in number, and,
 therefore, he shall have £8000 in money, or near that amount.”
 HARLECH CASTLE
 The castle is seated upon a lofty rock, facing that part of Caernarvon
 shire called Eifonydd; on the left is Cardigan Bay, and immediately below
 a sandy marsh, extending several miles. This fortress was built by Edward
 I., about the year 1280. It was impregnable on the side next to the sea, on
 the other it was protected by a prodigious fosse, cut with vast expense and
 trouble, in the solid rock.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 EXAMPLE IX
 If The Castle Besieged Shall Be Taken?
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 Oo
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 263
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 “A lord once ye beseged a castell, desired to wete, yf he shold
 wynne or no, or destroye it, or in what wyse, &c. And projec
 tion was such as aboue. Letitia, that is signifier of the asker, is
 a sign of Saipence and of engyne (ingenuity), y' sheweth him
 with great skille and prudence to labor for the getyng of y' place
 and not to profit, for by cause Letitia is not receyved, and for
 Letitia is agene located in the house of fortune, yt sheweth him
 to labor the askyng of it for help of his frendes, and to have ayde
 from them, they thinking to have division thereof, and for all y'
 he shall not avayle, nor profit, because of the prohibition of
 Carcer, and her constitution. And as Carcer is a sign of solici
 tude, yt sheweth that the asker shall haste to gete the Castell.
 And as Carcer is lord of the fifth, it is like that his besynes and
 intentions are in behalfe of a son, or one to him full leef (dear);
 and for that Tristitia is in the house of help, and afterwards
 goeth to the 6th that sheweth them that he desireth help of, to be
 slaw, and unlusty, and by happ they be secke (sick) and for
 povertye and fayntnesse unable to help him. And Amissio in the
 9th joined with the first, it sheweth him to spend moche for to
 assay to gete y” Castell. And Acquisitio in the 13th sheweth that
 he was a myghty man of good. The signifier of y" biseged, is
 entrant, and sheweth them to be stable and trew; and Caput
 Draconis, that is in their conjunction, augmenteth their strength,
 and y” sheweth y” bisegers to be feebler than ye biseged, but
 because the signifier of y" biseged is in y” part of y" bisegers,
264
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 unfortunate by ill translation, and is coupled to two ills, to Via
 and Amissio that are signs of falseness, y‘ sheweth the biseged
 to faynt, and to make guileful speech to the bisegers; for to yield
 the Castell, y° which they will not do, for the first is not in the
 fourth, neyther in any other places joined, but because Albus y‘
 signifies the asker’s purse, maketh translation into the 8th house,
 which is y‘ substance of y‘ biseged, it signifieth the bisegers hath
 sent money to them biseged for to yield y° Castell, but for by
 cause Albus is receyved y‘ signifieth y‘ they biseged have taken the
 money, by reason of which money, from strength and consistency,
 they are become weak and mobile (moveable). And as Cauda is in
 the 4th house, y‘ signifyeth the taking and destroying, or breaking
 up of the Castell, and the destruction of y" biseged."
 EXAMPLE X
 Predictions Relative To The Arctic Expedition, And Whether
 The North West Passage Will Be Ever Discovered
 “Then drew the seer the lines in sand;
 And breathing forth in words of skill,
 Quoth he, ‘The omens here are vile,
 For Reubeus in thy house of life,
 And Puer, stimulate to strife.
 Beware the blow, beware the brand,
 And let not slaughter stain thy hand,
 For little good this scheme portends,
 i
 And false and guileful are thy friends."—OLn PLAY.
 "Truth: of themselves are to be desired, for science itself is a certain good; now
 the expectation of future good very much delights us. and, on the contrary when
 future evils are foreseen_ we may either mitigate them, or at least bear them more con
 lentedly."—GU1D0 Bomvrus.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 CELESTIAL LOTS
 00
 O0
 00
 O0
 O
 O0
 O
 O0
 0
 O0
 O
 O0
 O
 O0
 O
 O0
 O
 00
 O
 O0
 O
 O0
 O
 O0
 OO
 O0
 00
 O0
 00
 O0
 00
 O0
 0
 OO
 O
 O0
 O0
 0
 O0
 00
 O
 0
 0,
 O0
 O
 0
 O '
 O0
 00
 O0
 O0
 O0
 00
 OO
 00
 O0
 265
 O
 0
 0
 Op
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 IN compliance with the wishes of several friends to this art,
 I have cast a figure of celestial lots, in order to ascertain whether
 there is any probability that the north-west passage will ever be
 discovered: and, by referring to the question, it must be first
 noticed, that Cauda, or the Tail of the Dragon, is found in the
 house of life, the house of journeys, and the house of honor!
 This imports great danger to the. commander of the expedition,
 and if the figure speak truth, Captain Parry will not succeed in
 his enterprise; but, it is to be feared, will be in extreme danger
 during the ensuing year, if not returned previous to that period.‘
 And the crew of the vessels, represented by the figure Populus,
 are likewise afflicted.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 The prevalence of the figures of Saturn are worthy of notice;
 here they recur four times, and at each time become more malig
 nant. Hence the chief failures will be owing to the physical
 causes and excess of cold, but the figure in the house of wealth
 denotes a want or scarcity of provisions, money, and necessaries.
 =|=
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 =|<
 *
 The prospect is gloomy, and some will inevitably suffer. It
 *
 may happen that the commander is not born under fortunate
 stars; I have not seen his nativity, but would advise him to avoid
266
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 the perils of the ocean, and the dangers of the elements until his
 38th year is past, for the first part of his life is represented from
 this figure to be wild and perilous, but not devoid of hope; and it
 may be that he may contemn the occult sciences.
 >k
 *k
 >k
k
 *k
 >k
 >k
 >k
 >k
 To proceed;—the watery and fiery elements predominate,
 hence one cause of evil and elementary strife; while Populus, the
 multitudinous Populus, combining the influence of the full moon,
 swift, in Capricorn; and after having entered the house of death,
 emerging from thence almost to the very genith of the figure, but
 stopping short in the house of hopes and wishes, with the gentle
 Amissio for judicial umpire, bids us look forward to the faint
 glimmering of hope, amidst the chaotic display of dreary be
 nighted obstacles; and hence I conclude, that the north-west
 passage will be finally discovered, but by LAND; the discovery is
 most likely, although aquatic excursions constitute partial hopes
 of success; but neither by the present expeditions nor by the next,
 nor until England's star shall ascend the horizon, replete with
 beams of superior influence, from the 11th house of her horo
 scope, shall the discovery be achieved; but courage and science
 shall meet their reward.
 August, 1825
 RAPHAEL.
 “The more I behold the heavens, the greater mischief do I fear; but
 knowing God can in a moment reconcile us, I am more sparing in art, yet let
 none take it ill I predict what I do, from positive rules of art itself.”
 LILLY.
 EXAMPLE XII
 A Figure Set For An Accident
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 O
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 267
 This figure was set upon the following occasion:—Mr. L—,
 a wealthy corn-factor, residing at Whitechapel, met with a fall
 from his chaise, in consequence of the vehicle being overturned
 through coming in contact with a wagon. By this accident he
 suffered such severe bruises that his life was despaired of; but
 being requested to give our opinion on the subject, we plainly
 saw his recovery denoted, for a figure of Jupiter is in the ascend
 ant, and a figure of Venus in the 8th house, which rendered it
 impossible that he could fall a victim thereto. He recovered
 within a month of the accident,
 EXAMPLE XII
 A Figure For Thurtell The Murderer
 “If the house of life be afflicted, there can be no worse harm, especially
 if the evil figures of Saturn be there.”—ALBUMAZAR.
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 OO
 O
 O
 OO
 OO
 O
 O
 O
 OO
 This figure, as could be proved on oath, if requisite, was cast
 nearly a month previous to the untimely end of this malefactor.—
 The combinations are remarkable, for the Dragon's Tail in the
 house of life, and a figure of Saturn, the anareta, in the house of
 death, coming from the fourth house with the evil figure Cauda
 in the 16th, are each of them particularly typical of that unfortu
 nate end which we predicted would certainly take place.
CHAPTER XXIII
 Qntient Qtbarms, fltalismans. Q1111 Qturious
 éetrets Kin Q5601! fibilusupbp
 FROM ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS AND RARE
 OLD AUTHORS
 “When the silent stars are shooting,
 And the answering owls are hooting,
 Shall my soul be upon thine,
 With a power, and with a sign?"—BYRON.
 Ill
 ‘
 *
 *
 *
 Ill
 “The charm works, and now _Arthur hie thee to the teen _wood, keep to_ the left,
 and anon on the verge of the sloping pasture, where the GIf .rang envelopes its mystic
 space, thou shalt fin the deadly nightshade, and the root 0 ueruam; haste, I say, or
 I ehhour of Saturne will be gone by, and lo the moon has already risen to light thy
 pat .
 "Arthur.—-Father, I s eed, winged by love, and all anxiety to try thy potent spell
 ye‘ stars be f3VOfablC."—8LD PLAY.
 THE SINGULAR PROPERTIES OF NATURAL MAGIC
 WITH A CURSORY VIEW OF CHARMS,
 TALISMANS, ‘ETC.
 In the grand laboratory of nature, there are many singular
 compositions of herbs and minerals, which have a surprising
 effect in themselves, without the least assistance from super
 natural agency; for, in the commixture of bodies of a similar
 nature, there is a two-fold power and virtue; first, when the
 celestial properties are duly disposed in any natural substance,
 then under one form divers influences of superior powers are
 ’
 combined; and secondly, when from artificial mixtures and com
 positions of natural things, combined amongst themselves in a
 due and harmonical proportion, they agree with the quality and
 force of the heavens, under certain correspondent constellations.
 This proceeds from the occult affinity of natural things amongst
 themselves, by the force and sympathy of which many astonish
 ing effects are produced.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 In the writings of Paracelsus, we find many surprising exam
 ples of the power invested in sympathy and antipathy, by means
 of images, talismaus, and amulets, compounded of nothing more
 than natural ingredients; and he very particularly describes. an
 infallible method by the image of any bird or beast, to destroy it,
 268
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 269
 or effect its death, though at a distance. So likewise by the hair,
 fat, blood, excrements, or excrescences of any animal, the dis
 eases of that animal might be cured, and its life preserved or
 destroyed.
 This is seen in the famous Armary Unguent* and the sympa
 thetical powder; and there are multiplied instances and histories,
 both at home and abroad, of those who have been burnt, hanged,
 or otherwise pun_ished, for the use of waxen images, which they
 composed in divers postures, under certain constellations, where
 by the persons they are made to represent, have been severely
 tormented, or macerated to death; for, according to the torment
 or punishment they intended to inflict upon the object of their
 resentment, so they disposed the hour of the constellation, the
 quality of the compound, and the posture or form of the magical
 image; for instance, if they wished to pine, or consume by slow
 degrees the health and life of any person they were offended
 with, they moulded his image in wax, of such an ominous form
 and aspect as conduced to their design, making several magical
 characters upon the sides of the head, describing the characters
 of the planetary hour upon the breast of the image, the name of
 the persecuted person on its forehead, and the intended effect to
 be wrought, on its back. If they meant to produce violent pains
 and tortures in the flesh or sinews, they proceeded to stick pins
 or thorns in various places of the arms, legs, or breast of the
 image. If to cast them into violent fevers or consumptions, they
 proceeded in a certain planetary hour, every day to warm and
 turn the image before a lingering fire, which fire was composed
 of certain exotic gums and magical ingredients of sweet odors,
 and roots of certain shrubs efficient to their purpose. And when
 the whole image was completed, it is astonishing to human com
 prehension, what surprising efiects they were capable of produc
 ing upon the person they intended to represent, and which the
 reader can only attain a competent idea of, by reading the accounts
 of the trials and confessions of those who suffered the law in the
 16th, I7th, and commencement of the 18th centuries, for transac
 tions of this kind, an incredible number of which are not only
 recorded in the notes and memorandums of the judges, but
 attested by a great variety of noblemen, gentlemen, clergy, physi
 cians, and others, who were eye-witnesses of these singular pro
 ceedings; and for which reason we have spared giving the
 minutia of forming these execrable images, lest the evil-minded
 and malicious should attempt thereby to work some abominable
 species of revenge upon their unsuspecting neighbors.
 Thousands of other strange and uncouth inventions might be
 here described, and as the Europeans have the ability of effecting
 such astonishing things by the medium of images, talismans,
 ‘The receipt for making this famous compound is given hereafter.
270
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 amulets, and charms, so the Asiatic nations have a faculty of
 producing similar effects by similar rites.
 1|!
 *
 *
 Ill
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 The art of transplantation is also magical, which was for
 merly much practised, and is still, as we are credibly informed,
 ‘made use of in the more remote and unpolished parts of this
 island.* The method is, by giving certain preparations to any
 domestic animal, they thereby remove fevers, agues, coughs, con
 sumptions, asthmas, &c. from any person applying to them for
 that purpose; or they can remove them from one person to
 another, by burying certain images in the ground,** or against
 their houses, with certain ominous inscriptions and Hebrew let
 ters; yet the effects of these are chiefly derived from the sympa
 thies of nature,1' for many persons, without knowing the cause,
 have been able to remove diseases, take off warts, &c. and to
 perform many surprising cures at a distance from the patient,
 and even without ever seeing him; so, by a similar property in
 the sympathy and antipathy of nature, certain leaves, roots, or
 juices being rubbed upon wants or excrescences, and buried under.
 the ground, remove or cure the same, which experiments take
 efiect according to their mediums, and their consumption or
 putrefaction in the mother earth, of which the human source is
 principally compounded.
 III
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 Nor is it to be wondered at, that natural things being fitted to
 the times and Constellations, compounded of sympathetic in
 gredients, should produce strange and apparently supernatural
 effects.
 Since the Occult causes are appropriate to the effect, a few of
 these we will here mention: and first, of the composition of
 THE MAGICAL CANDLE
 This candle is spoken of by a learned philosopher of the last
 century.1: It is compounded after the following manner :—they
 take a good quantity of the venal blood lukewarm, as it came out
 of the vein, which, being chemically prepared with alcohol and
 other ingredients, is at last made up into a candle, which, being
 once kindled, never is extinguished till the death of the party,
 whose blood it is composed of; for, when he is sick or in danger,
 ' It is a singular fact that rape-seed, sown with curses and imprecations, thrives
 infinite] better than when sown in the ordinary way.
 '' f the object be for hate, this is done in the hour of Saturn; but if for love,
 Venus is chosen well dignified.
 1‘ It is a tradition amon st the co_untry people, that if a live pigeon be tied to the
 breast of a child which has t e whooping cough, and afterwards let free, the child will
 recover but the bird will die thereo .
 1 15¢ Biolychina.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 ~
 271
 it burns dim and troubled; and when he is dead, it is quite extin
 guished.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 In the simple operations of nature, many other wonderful
 things are wrought, which, upon a superficial view, appear
 impossible or supernatural, thus :—it has been discovered that
 lamps or torches, composed of certain ingredients, have a won
 derful effect upon vision, such as the composition of
 THE MAGIC TORCH
 TO PRODUCE THE APPEARANCE OF SERPENTS*
 Take the skin of a serpent when first killed, and twist it up
 like catgut; then take the blood and fat thereof, and mix with
 some hard tallow to make it a substance; then take a mould, such
 as candles are made in, and fix the skin of the serpent as the
 wick, and pour in the fat, &c. as above prepared, which composi
 tion will thus form a candle. But the whole of this experiment
 must be performed under the ascension of the sign SCORPIO.
 This candle must be lighted in the hour of SA'rURN,'l' and when
 ever it is thus lit in a close room, the place will appear filled with
 innumerable quantities of serpentsi in all parts thereof, to the
 great horror of the spectators, and so perfect will be the appear
 ances, that even the operator himself will be scarcely able to
 withstand the force of imagination.
 THE MAGIC TORCH
 TO PRODUCE THE APPEARANCE OF FLIES
 Take a quantity of flies, and boil them with a sufficient quan
 tity of wax or tallow, making the same into a torch or candle in
 manner as shown above, which experiment must be performed
 under the ascension of AQUARIES, and lit in the hour of SATURN.
 When lighted, the room where it is, will appear swarming with
 thousands of these insects, and the illusion will be so perfect, that,
 to a spectator, they will appear the efiect of enchantment.
 THE MAGICAL OIL OF GRAPES
 Likewise oil compounded of grapes being put into a lamp and
 lighted, will make the room appear full of grapes, though, in _
 reality, it is nothing more than the idea or similitude, and the
 ‘ Taken from a curious Manuscript in the possession of the Author.
 1‘Albumazar and the old Arabian Astrologers are very explicit upon the force of
 planetary hours.
 \
 IProbably the greater part of the ma ical feats, recorded in the Scriptures, are
 practiced b the Egyptians, were the resut of Natural Magic. although some were
 certainly 0 a more mysterious class.
272
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 same thing is to be done with all the plants and flowers through
 out the vegetable system, by means of a chymical analysis, where
 by a simple spirit is produced, which will represent the herb or
 sk
 flower from which it is extracted in full bloom.
 *
 >k
 >k
 >k
 *
 >k
 >k
 >k
 How far such inventions as are called Charms, Amulets, and
 Talismans, have their foundation in the occult qualities of nature,
 may be well worth our inquiry; because, if cures are to be
 effected through their medium, and that without anything derog
 atory to the deity or religion, we see no reason why they should
 be rejected with that inexorable contempt, which levels the works
 of God with the folly and weakness of men. It was the opinions
 formerly of many eminent physicians, that such kinds of Charms,
 which, through the medium of hope and fear, work an impression
 upon the imagination, should be applied and made use of, for
 harm they can do none, and good they might do; therefore, in
 either case, there can be no lawful argument against their being
 used; and there is unquestionably much praise due to those who
 have been so industrious” as to deliver such curious secrets to
 posterity; for, to sluggards, niggards, or narrow-minded men,
 the secrets of nature are never opened, though the study of them
 is certainly conducive to the glory of God, and to the good of
 society, by more visibly manifesting the omnipotency of his
 works, and by skilfully applying them to men's use and benefit.
 Hence, in former times the Magi, or followers of Occult Phi
 losophy, were accounted wise, and the study honorable, because
 it chiefly consists in the most profound and perfect part of
 Natural Philosophy, which defines the nature, causes, and effects
 of things.
QLaligmang
 IN the whole circle of the Theurgic art, there is scarcely any
 thing more abstruse or intricate than the mystical science of
 Talismans.# The practice has occasionally received much oppo
 sition from those persons who are either unable to comprehend
 the secret yet sublime mysteries of nature, or unwilling to give
 credence to anything beyond the immediate sphere of their own
 comprehension; and, on the other hand, the art has stood its
 * The Ancient Masters of the Occult, for instance, individually labored for years in
 obtaining a knowledge of nature’s secrets, and their labors will no doubt be duly appre
 ciated by posterity.
 .# The late celebrated romance of “The Taltsman,” by Sir Walter Scott, evinces
 a singular instance of the faith mankind formerly had in these mysterious agents,
 which were formed under appropriate constellations. The Author of this work is
 acquainted with many scientific persons who have proved Talismanic Agency both in
 preservation from dangers and accumulation of good fortune.
POWERFUL ANGIENT GHARMS AND TALISMANS
 This Illustration Faces Page 272

ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 273
 ground with firmness amidst the change of ages.” Mourning
 rings, miniatures, lockets, devices,t mottos, armorial bearings,
 and the “boast of heraldry,”: are but so many relics of Talis
 manic learning.
 *
 Sunt lachrymae rerum et mentem mortalia tangunt.-VIRGIL.
 * Amongst mankind in general, there is much of Talismanic belief, witness the
 avidity with which the caul of an infant is sought after, to preserve from danger by
 water. There is also a belief that persons born at or near midnight, are apt to see
 spirits, and have supernatural omens. This Raphael, the Astrologer, supposes may
 proceed from the sun being then near the fourth house, or house of secrets and secret
 discoveries. There seems much truth in this general opinion which the sceptic will find
difficult to disprove.
 f It is reported by credible persons, that when Napoleon went to Egypt, he was
 there presented with a Talisman, by a learned rabbi, the effect of which was designed
 to protect and defend him from sudden attacks, assassinations, and all manner of
 hurts from fire-arms. Whether or no this was really the case, we of course cannot
 decidedly avouch; but the persons who related it, we believe to be incapable, of false
 hood. And it certainly was very singular, that although so many attempts were made
 to wound him, and although he has frequently been seen in battle, when “the balls
 tore up the ground under his horse's feet,” and although he had frequently horses shot
 under him, yet he uniformly escaped free from harm; and he seems indeed to have
 been inspired with a belief that he was under some special supernatural agency. The
 Talisman was supposed to have been formed under the power and influence of the SUN.
 # It is singular that in the science of heraldry they make use of houses, the same
 as in the Astrological science.
274
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 2
 2×
 %
illemauzar
 2Pyewackett
 £ [.
 £
 N
 N
 §: 24 '.
 %
 3Pecke in theCrowne
 4Gruzzdl Greed gut
 $ecret Qaligman
 FoR DESTROYING ALL KINDs of VENOMOUs or TROUBLESOME
 INSECTs or REPTILES
 Talisman No. 776
 This Talisman" was formed and constructed by the Ancients,
 when the Sun and Moon entered the sign Scorpio. It is said by
 *The above Talisman, No. 776, reproduced on Genuine Virgin Parch
 ment Paper, strictly in accordance with the directions given here, will be
 sent free to any one sending us an order, out of our Catalogue, amounting
 to $5.00 or over, and enclosing the extra amount of $1.25 for a Silk Bag in
 which said Talisman should be worn to keep the same clean and unspotted.
 A Secret Leather Talisman Case to protect this Talisman against
 bodily perspiration, dampness and atmospheric conditions, so that it can
 be preserved permanently, will be sent upon receipt of $1.50 extra.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 275
 them to have proved to be very powerful in effect; so much so,
 that, when it was worn by one, no kind of venomous reptile or
 troublesome insect can come within certain yards of the wearer.
 It is also said to be efficacious in Saturnine diseases, especially '
 made when the MooN enters the constellation of CANCER con
 joined with the SUN.
 The Ancient Manuscript, from which this is taken, cost two
 hundred Guineas (One Thousand Dollars) and a medical gentle
 man, to whom it belonged, affirms that he himself proved the
 truth of this observation, for being at one time much annoyed
 with beetles, he wore it in a Secret Talisman Case, when these
 troublesome insects immediately disappeared; but afterwards,
 when his servant stole it one night from his pocket, while he slept,
 they returned in great numbers; but when it was recovered, they
 again disappeared!
276
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Q Utalisman Qgatnst fietret @IIBmie£
 Talisman lo. 777
 ACCORDING to the opinion of the Ancient Theurgists, this
 Talisman* should be traced or reproduced on Genuine Virgin
 Parchment, made from the skin of a dead born lamb. It should
 be reproduced in the purest of Gold Ink under certain Planets,
 and, as written above, on Virgin Parchment Paper only.
 * The above Talisman, No. 777, reproduced on Genuine Virgin Parch
 ment Paper, strictly in accordance with the directions given here, will be
 sent free to any one sending us an order, out of our Catalogue, amounting
 to $5.00 or over, and enclosing the extra amount of $1.25 for a Silk Bag
 in which said Talisman should be worn to keep the same clean and un
 spotted.
 A Secret Leather Talisman Case to protect this Talisman against
 bodily perspiration, dampness and atmospheric conditions, so that it can be
 preserved permanently, will be sent upon receipt of $1.50 extra. Foreign
 75, do Laurence, Scott & Co.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTs
 277
 This is said to be a very Potent and Powerful Talisman if worn
 in a Hand Made Silk Bag, to keep the same clean and unspotted,
 and suspended from the neck by a Silken Cord, or worn about
 any part of the body, so that it may be kept secret to all but the
 wearer. Its effects are believed to give most decisive victory over
 enemies, to defend one against their machinations, and to inspire
 the wearer thereof with the most remarkable confidence. This
 Talisman, may, as stated above, be worn in a Silk Bag or it can
 be permanently preserved by being worn in aSecret Leather Talis
 man Case,
278
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 £ncient Q-aligman for 3Lobe
 Talisman No. 778
 “But this most sweet and lighted calm,
 Its blue and midnight hour,
 Wakened the hidden springs of his heart,
 With a deep and secret power.”—IOLE.
 THIS Talisman* is said to be wonderfully efficacious in procur
 ing success in amours and love adventures; it must be reproduced
 or printed in Fine Gold Ink upon Genuine Pure Virgin Parchment,
 made from the skin of a dead born lamb, so states an Ancient
 Manuscript believed to be accurate and truthful. It may then be
 placed in a Hand Made Silk Bag to keep it clean and unspotted,
 and suspended from the neck by a Silken Cord, or worn about
 any part of the body, so that it may be kept secret to all but the
 wearer, or it may be carried and preserved permanently in a Secret
 Leather Talisman Case.
 * The above Talisman, No. 778, reproduced on Genuine Virgin Parch
 ment Paper, strictly in accordance with the directions given here, will be
 sent free to any one sending us an order, out of our Catalogue, amounting
 to $5.00 or over, and enclosing the extra amount of $1.25 for a Silk Bag in
 which said Talisman should be worn to keep the same clean and unspotted.
 A Secret Leather Talisman Case, to protect this Talisman against
 bodily perspiration, dampness and atmospheric conditions, so that it can be
 preserved permanently, will be sent upon receipt of $1.50 extra. Foreign,
 7s. DE LAURENCE, SCOTT & Co.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Qutient llflaltsman Jfnr was Qnh fiattle
 Talisman lo. 779
 279
 “He that beareth this Talisman about him,
 shall be helped in every need or necessity”
 Great men from the beginning of the world have worn Charms
 and Talismans* to protect them from personal injury; and it is
 said that when a man goes forth to fight and protect his country
 * The above Talisman, No. 779, reproduced on Genuine Virgin Parch
 ment Paper, strictly in accordance with the directions given here, will be
 sent free to any one sending us an order, out of our Catalogue, amounting
 to $5.00 or over, and enclosing the extra amount of $1.25 for a Silk Bag in
 which said Talisman should be worn, to keep the some clean and unspotted.
 A Secret Leather Talisman Case to protect this Talisman against bodily
 perspiration, dampness and atmospheric conditions, so that it can be pre
 served permanently, will be sent upon receipt of $1.50 extra. Foreign, 7s.
 on Lannnnca, Scorr 8: Co.
280
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 that, he may be surrounded by a power which will shield him
 against all harm and injury and we find in Isaiah the following:
 “They that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought. For I
 the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.”
 Isiah 41, 12-13.
 *
 Today there are many who believe in the efficacy of Charms
 and Talismans. Again, Bullet-Proof Soldiers are the latest War
 Wonder. Further, we find the following in a very Ancient Manu
 script which says:—“He that beareth this Talisman about him, re
 produced on Virgin Parchment Paper, made from the skin of a
 dead born lamb, shall be helped in every need or necessity.”
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 E
 .
 ...'
 "-->
 #
 $.'
 'SA)'.
 . ." §
 ...'
 "...#-Q
 #.
 .#/.
 #
 '''
 .# Sa'i
 ..''
 '##
 #
 S =
 #
 S$3
 |
 281
 Žncient Banigi, Calenbar
 THIS Ancient Almanack, which was in common use through
 out this country during the earlier part of last century, is a very
 curious relic of the Danish Government in England. It was
 called by them “Rimstock,” from “Rimur,” which, in their lan
 guage, signified “a calendar.”
 By the Norwegians, with whom they are still in use, they are
 termed “Primestaves,” from the introduction of the prime or
 golden number upon the staff, or walking-stick, which, with them,
 is the prevailing form of this utensil. I have one of these prime
 staves in my possession, which consists of the straight branch of
 a tree, divested of its bark, having the figures of men, animals,
 birds, fishes, reptiles, flowers, and weapons, neatly incised upon
 its surface. It is about an inch in diameter, and nearly three feet
 in length.
 * Formerly used as a powerful charm.
282
 ‘
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 These instruments differ from each other in form, size, mate
 rial, and marks. Olaus Wormius, in his “Fasti Danici,” exhibits
 two; one hexagonal, with an intermixture of Runic characters,
 and another flat, divided into six columns. He says that there
 were some very ancient ones made of horn, and others inscribed
 upon a hollow bone. Mr. Gough has engraved one to his edition
 of Camden’s Britannia.
 Dr. Robert Plot, who, in 1686, published “The Natural His
 tory of StaflFordshire,” has descanted very largely on this singular
 implement, in an additional chapter “Of Antiquities.” He says
 that they were generally made of wood, box, fir, or oak, though
 he met with some few of brass; that they were of two sizes, one
 larger, for the use of a whole family; and others private, of
 smaller dimensions, to carry in the pocket. This work, which has
 become extremely scarce, was published in one volume, folio.
 The thirty-fifth plate is a representation of one of the larger sort
 of clogs, and dedicated “to the worshipful Elias Ashmole, Esq.,”
 who was a ve distinguished antiquary, a native of Lichfield,
 and collector o the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, over which '
 Dr. Plot, at that time, presided.
 The above drawing, which is copied from this print, shows
 the four edges of the square log, each one of which contains
 three months, which are divided by notches into days, every
 seventh being of a larger size, to denote the Sabbath; and the
 f
 irst of every month is noted by a patulus stroke, inclining up
 wards. The figures on the left side of the notches show the
 golden number, or cycle of the moon. If this number be under
 5, it is denoted by so many points; if 5, by a hooked line drawn
 from the notch representing the ancient sigil V. When above 5,
 and under 10, the hooked line has one or more points appended
 to it; at 10, the stroke is crossed thus, X; points are now placed
 above it to 14; at I5, the cross is surmounted by a hooked line,
 making it XV. The dots are still continuous, till at 19 the line
 is intersected by two crosses, which is the last number requisite
 tr_. mark these changes.
 The other figures remaining to be described on the opposite
 side of the notches, are symbolical of the life or death of the
 saint, against whose feast they are opposed, or of some custom
 or occupation, in vogue about the time, as follows :
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Days
 1. Annulet
 6. Star
 13. Cross
 25. Axe
 Days
 2. Heart
 3. B.
 5. A.
 JANUARY.
 New Year’s Day
 Epiphany
 Hilary
 St. Paul
 FEBRUARY.
 I4. L0ver’s knot
 24. Leg
 Days
 I. Harp
 2. Bough
 MARCH.
 Purification
 Blaize
 Agatha
 Valentine
 Matthias
 David
 Chad
 .
 Days
 Aucusr.
 1. Bow and Arrows
 7. Cross
 I0. Gridiron
 15. Heart
 SEPTEMBER.
 Days
 I. Hunting-horn
 8. Heart
 14. Cross
 29. Pair of Scales
 Days
 13. Man
 OCTOBER.
 283
 Lammas
 Transfiguration
 Lawrence
 Assumption
 Giles
 Nativity
 Holy Cross
 Michael
 Edward the Confessor
 25. Heart
 Days
 3. Javelin
 4. Arrow
 23. Spear
 Days
 I. Branch
 3. Cross
 Days
 11. Rake
 24. Sword
 29. Keys
 Days.
 2. Heart
 Annunciation
 '
 APRIL.
 MAY.
 JUNE
 JULY.
 Richard
 Ambrose
 George
 May-day
 Invention
 Barnabas
 John _
 Peter
 Visitation
 7. A. T. erost Thomas-a-Becket
 20. M.
 22. Cup
 _
 It may
 marked with a heart.
 Margaret ‘
 M. Magdalen
 18. Guitar
 25. Shoes
 28. S. 1.
 Days
 2. S.
 6. Cross
 11. M.
 23. Wassail Cup
 25. Wheel
 30. Cross
 Days
 6. Hearts
 8. Heart
 I3. Lute
 25. Drinking-horn
 26. S.
 27. I.
 29. Cross
 Luke
 Crispin
 Simon and Jude
 NOVEMBER.
 DECEMBER.
 All Souls
 Leonard
 Martin
 Clement
 Catherine
 Andrew
 Nicholas
 Conception
 Lucy
 Christmas day
 Stephen
 John
 Thomas-a-Canterbury
 be remarked, that all the feasts of the Virgin are
 A CHARM TO PROTECT AGAINST THIEVES
 Whoso will protect himself against thieves by night or by day,
 let him wear this Charm (written on Virgin Parchment) about
 him, and repeat the words thereof every morning, so shall no
 theft happen to annoy him.”—Original Manuscript, dated May 8,
 I577, in the possession of The Author.
284
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE CHARM
 Deus autem transiens per medium illorum, ibat + Jhus cpus
 + benedictus Deus quotidie prosperus iter facit Deus salutaris
 noster + Jhus obstinenter occuli eorum ne videant, et dorsum
 eorum ni curva + Jhus + effundus supra eas irs tua, et furor
 ire tue comprehendat eos + Irrnat + supra inimicas meos for
 mido et pavo in magnitudine brachii fiant eniobiles quasi Lapis,
 donec per transeat famulus tuus + quem redemisti + dextera
 tua magnificata est, in virtute Domini per crusist inimicus in
 multitudine virtutis tuae deposuisti omnes adversarious meos–
Jhesu + eripe me et ab in surgentibusque in me libera me +
 Jhesu + custodi me, et de manu peccatoris et ab hominibusque
 iniquis eripe me + Jhesu + eripe me de opera tibis que iniquitate
 et a viris sanguine salva me + gloria Patri + Anthos + Anostro
 + Morio + Bay + Gloy + Apen + Agia + Agias +
 Yskiros--.
 21 Charm for #ealing #Bigeageg
 Taken From A Curious MS. Of The Twelfth Century, In The
 Possession Of The Mercurii
 A b r a c a d a b r a
 a b r a c a d a b r
 a b r a c a d a b
 a b r a c a d a
 a b r a c a d
 a b r a c a
 The letters which compose this Charm must be written in a
 pyramidal form, as above, on Virgin Parchment, with the quill
 of a raven, and with ink formed out of the smoke of a conse
 crated wax-taper; then let the party who is afflicted of the dis
 ease, which he would have cured, wear the Charm hung around
 his neck during the time that the moon performs one circuit
 through the twelve signs of the zodiac; and let it be performed
 on the day of the full moon, and, if possible, while the moon is
 in the Magical signs Sagittarius or Pisces.
 .
 It is necessary that the wearer have a firm and confident faith
 in the power of Divine Omnipotence; and the following oration
 must be said upon first beginning to wear the above Holy Charm,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 285
 and in very difficult cases the patient should repeat the oration
 daily, with great devotion.
 THE ORATION
 “O, sweet Lord Jesus Christ, X the true God, who didst
 descend from the kingdom of thy Almighty Father, being sent to
 wash away our sins, to release those who were in prison and
 afflicted, to console the sorrowful and the needy, to absolve and
 to liberate me, thy servant, from my affliction and tribulation, in
 which I am placed. So, O, Omnipotent Father, thou didst
 receive us again, by his expiation, into that paradise, by thy
 blood, O, Jesu, X obtained, and didst make us equal among and
 angels and men. Thou, O, Lord Jesus Christ, X wert worthy to
 stand between me and mine enemies, and to establish my peace
 and to show thy grace upon me, and to pour out thy mercy. And
 thou, O Lord, didst extinguish the anger of mine enemies, which
 they contained against me, as thou didst take away the wrath of
 Esau, which he had against Jacob, his brother. O, Lord Jesus,
 X extend thine arm towards me, and deliver me from my afflic
 tion, even as thou didst deliver Abraham from the hands of the
 Chaldean, and his son, Isaac, from the sacrifice, and Jacob from
 the hand of his brethren; Noah from the deluge; and even as
 thou didst deliver thy servant Lot; thy servants, Moses and
 Aaron, and thy people Israel, from the hands of Pharaoh, and
 out of the land of Egypt; David from the hands of Saul, and the
 giant Goliath; or as thou deliveredst Susannah from her
 accusers; Judith from the hands of Holofernes; Daniel from the
 den of the lions; the three youths from the fiery furnace; Jonah
 from the whale's belly; or as thou deliveredst the son of Can
 nanea, who was tormented by the devil; even as thou deliveredst
 Adam from hell, by thy most precious blood; and Peter and Paul
 from chains. So, O, most sweet Lord Jesus, X Son of the living
 God, preserve me, thy servant, from my affliction, and mine
 enemies; and be my assistant, and my blessing, by thy holy
 incarnation, by thy fasting and thirst, by thy labors and affliction,
 by thy stripes, by thy thorny crown, by thy drink of gall and
 vinegar, by thy most cruel death, by the words which thou
 speakedst upon the cross, by thy descent into hell, by the consola
 tion of thy disciples, by thy wonderful ascension, by the appear
 ance of the Holy Spirit, by the day of judgment, by thy great
 gifts, and by thy holy names, Adonay X Eloym X Aeloym X
 Yacy X Zazael X Paliel X Saday XYZoe X Yaras X Caelphi
 X. Saday X, and by thy ineffable name yżyty Jehovah X. By
 all these holy, omnipotent, and all-powerful names of singular
 efficacy and extraordinary power, which the elements obey, and
 at which the devils tremble: O most gracious Jesu, X grant, I
286
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 beseech thee, that this holy charm which I now wear about my
 person, may be the means of healing my lamentable sickness: so
 shall the praise thereof be ascribed, O Lord, to thee alone, and
 thou alone shalt have all the glory.” Amen. Fiat, fiat, fiat.
 By making use of the above occult and sacred remedy, the
 most miraculous cures have been heretofore performed; and as
 there is nothing therein which is in any way derogatory to the
 power of the Supreme Being, or inimical to our fellow-creatures,
 there certainly can be no harm in making continual use thereof,
 upon every occasion.
 ANOTHER WAY
 If it were required to perform a cure upon one at a distance,
 or without the afiiicted party’s knowledge thereof, let the charm
 be written on virgin parchment, and then you may perform the
 cure without their knowledge, by scraping out one line of the
 charm every day with a new knife, kept for the express purpose;
 and at scraping out each line, say as follows :—
 “So as I destroy the letters of this charm, Abracadabra, so, by
 virtue of this sacred name, may all grief and dolor depart from
 A/B. in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
 Ghost. In the name of the Father, I destroy this disease. In the
 name of the Son, I destroy this disease; and in the name of the
 Holy Spirit, I destroy this disease.” Amen.
 Many have healed divers diseases this way; the disease wear
 ing, by little and little, away. Therefore keep it secret, and fear
 G0d.—Ancient MS. Supposed to have been an original of Friar
 Bacon.
 wunherful Qbintments Jfur lltllnuntis
 COMPOSED OF THE FOUR ELEMENTAL PRINCIPLES
 _
 “Rebuke the company of spearmen; scatter thou the people that delight
 in war.”—PsALM LXVIII. 30.
 
THE INGREDIENTS
 Sympathizing With The Seven Planets
 I. The moss of a dead man’s skull. . . . . . . 2 ounces
 2. Of man’s fat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 do
 3. Of mummy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. V2 do
 4. Of man’s blood. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. % do
 5. Oil of linseed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 do
 6. Oil of roses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 do
 7. Bol-ammoniac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. V2 do
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 287
 The three last ingredients are added unto it, because it help
 eth to bring it unto a subtle ointment, and without question there
 is also great virtue in them.
 Elements.
 Water
 Fire
 Earth
 Air
 Nature.
 Cold and moist
 Hot and dry
 Cold and dry _
 Hot and moist
 Complexion.
 Phlegm
 Choler
 Melancholy
 Sanguine
 Planets.
 \_ S2 and )
 0 and 6
 *2
 7‘1
 and Q
 All these things before mentioned must be mixed together,
 and beaten well in a mortar until it becomes an ointment, then
 keep it in a close thing, from air, for your use.
 The way to use this unguent, whereby to cure, is as follows:
 Take the blood or matter of the wound upon the weapon,* or
 instrument that made the wound, or otherwise dry it upon a
 piece of wood; then put the wood into the ointment, or else
 anoint the blood, being kept dry upon the wood, with the oint
 ment, and keep it from the air, after which you must every day
 wet a fresh linen rag, with the urine of the patient, and so bind up
 the wound,'j' do it early every morning, also you must be careful
 that the ointment which is applied to the blood, be not cold, but
 that it be kept warm. With this sympathetic ungent, wonderful
 things may be done, if it be rightly managed, according unto the
 directions aforesaid. I shall quote one example concerning the
 trial of this unguent, as follows :—
 One day, being at dinner with Sir H. Forrester, of Alder
 maston, Berks, the. female who usually waited on his lady, was
 extremely tormented with a toothache, we caused her to prick her
 teeth with a toothpick, and to bleed it; immediately we put the
 toothpick into the ointment, and she had present ease, after some
 time, we took the toothpick, and put it into vinegar, whereupon
 she was presently in extreme pain; we then took it from out the
 vinegar, and again applied it unto the ungent, and she was imme
 diately well, and so continued.
 /
 THE SLEEP OF PLANTS
 The common chicken weed, with white blossoms, affords a
 notable instance of what is called “the sleep of plants,” for every
 night, the leaves approach in pairs, so as to include within their
 upper surface the tender rudiments of the new shoots, while the
 uppermost pair but one, at the end of the stalk, are furnished
 with longer leaf stalks, than the others, so that they close on the
 terminating pair, and protect the branch.
 ' Another remarkable property of_ this famous ointment is, that a wound may be
 healed _without the presence of the‘patient, only by taking a quantity of the warm blood
 whichd issued from the wound, an applying the ointment to it, which soon heals the
 woun .
 _
 1' Sir Kenelm Digby relates upon his own testimony man surprising instances of
 its wonderful efficacy, as also the celebrated Van Helmont an others who lived in the
 seventeenth century.
 '
\\
 &#
 Żmillilullûtilit
 N
 \\
 CHAPTER XXIV
 (#rim &nt QChummim
 FROM A RARE ALCHEMICAL MANUSCRIPT
 THE above illustration exhibits a correct view of the Urim
 and Thummim; it consists of a pedestal formed according to the
 rules of the Magical Science, of a composition termed by the
 Theurgists, Electrum Magicum, with the word + Elohim + on
 the pedestal; in the centre of this is placed a pillar, which sup
 ports an oval chrystal, or polished surface set in gold, and around
 which must be inscribed the mighty name of supreme majesty
 + Tetragrammaton +. Round it are five small chrystals, to
 represent the animal, vegetable, mineral, and astral kingdoms,
 and the one on top to represent the A of the Lord. The whole
 must be preserved in a case free from dust.
 288
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 289
 THE COMPOSITION OF THE ELECTRUM
 MAGICUM
 Being A Rare Manuscript Secret, That Has Never Yet Been
 Made Public
 Take four half ounces of G) which must be poured through
 the antimony, melt it on a Sunday, in the hour of the Q, when it
 is well fused, throw purified saltpetre into it, until it emits sparks
 of all kinds of colors, when it is well purified—and take care that
 you do this in the proper hour, then pour it into a new vessel,
 afterwards melt in it, on a Monday, in the hour of the ), four
 half ounces of refined silver; purify it with salt of tartar, which
 has no culinary salt in it, and when the hour is past cease. On a
 Tuesday, in the hour of Mars, melt clean pure iron with pot
 ashes, and cleanse it further with pitch or tar. On the Wednes
 day, in the hour of #, melt four half ounces of quicksilver,
 which purify with pitch. On Thursday, in the hour of 24, melt
 three half ounces of tin; purify it with the fat of a ram. On a
 Friday, in the hour of 2, take four half ounces of virgin copper,
 purify it with vinegar and saltpetre carefully; then strain it
 through a piece of leather. On the Saturday, in the hour of b,
 melt pure lead, throw a good deal of pitch or tar upon it, and put
 it by, and take care on the hour in which the new moon is light,
 to melt in the same hour all the metals together. Put, therefore,
 your purified lead first into the crucible, afterwards the tin,
 before it is too hot, pour the quicksilver into it, and stir it about
 with a hazel stick, then put the copper into it, and give it a strong
 heat, afterwards the silver, and next the gold. While all this is
 fusing, throw into it the eighth part of an ounce of mineral steel,
 and cast therefrom the pedestal.
 After this get two large chrystals ground on a Friday, and
 well polished; now observe when the Q gets into Su, place in the
 same hour a crucible in the fire, which crucible must be well
 glazed therein; take from the same, four stones, which were
 before put into the electrum, from each one half an ounce; put
 first the mineral in, then the vegetable and animal, and last of all
 the astral, and when you pour this into the mould, it will seem
 as if the stone was red hot, like a glowing coal, and it is wonder
 ful, since it never changes, but so remains continually. Then
 make the instrument as seen in the drawing, and call it the urim
 and thummim. This wonderful secret is but little known in the
 world, and neither kings nor emperors can obtain it for money.
 )
290
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 USE or THIS FAMOUS SECRET
 When thou wouldest divine by this art, take the urim from
 the case, place it on the table, with two wax-lights burning beside
 it, constrain your imagination, and fall down with reverence
 before the Father in heaven, then having a brazier at hand, filled
 with hot embers, throw therein frankincense, mastic, benzoin and
 myrrh, and begin to fumigate to all four parts of the world, and
 with the incense pan also three times towards the urim, then bend
 thyself, and devoutly say as follows:
 Tm; INCANTATION
 O! X TETRAGRAMMATON, X thou powerful God and Father!
 we praise, love, and pray to thee, we also here are collected laying
 before thee, like poor earth and ashes. We honor thy holy and
 majestical name, and exclaim with all the saints and elect, three
 times HOLY, HOLY, HOLY.* Then sing a song of praise to God,
 such as the Psalm, We praise thee O God, 5'c. And with thy
 brethren place thyself round a table, and remain a little while
 quite still, each having his eye directed towards the urim, and
 whatever thou desirest or wishest to see or know, shall be mani
 fested unto thee, and thou shalt become acquainted with all
 hidden things, and wilt be enabled to see anything that is being
 done in any part of the world, no matter how distant, or whether
 past, present, or future. But when this is done, all must be kept
 a profound secret, the lights must be put out, and all present
 must fall down and praise God. This is the hidden mystery of
 the urim and thummim.
 ‘This is supposed by antiquarians to be the mode practised_by the high priests
 amongst the Jews, and to be the same unm and thummim as described in Scriptures.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Jfur llnhuking §>pirits
 Jfamnus lltalisman ®f ilauman Skulls
 Talisman lo. 780
 291
 This Talisman,* known as the ”Talisman of Human Skulls,”
 must be formed and fashioned as follows: It must be accurately
 traced or reproduced with fine pure Gold Ink upon Virgin Parch
 ment made from the skin of a dead born lamb. It must be kept
 clean and unspotted, by being worn suspended from the neck in a
 Hand Made Silk Bag or carried about the person secretly in‘a
 Secret Leather Talisman Case to protect it against sweat, perspira
 tion, and undue dampness.
 _
 And when thou wouldst invoke a spirit, have this Talisman
 ‘The above Talisman, No. 780, reproduced on Genuine Virgin Parch
 ment Paper, strictly in accordance with the directions given here, will be
 sent free to any one sending us an order, out of our Catalogue, amounting
 to $5.00 or over, and enclosing the extra amount of $1.25 for a Silk Bag
 in which said Talisman should be worn to keep the same clean and unspot
 ted.’
 A Secret Leather Talisman Case to protect this Talisman against bodily
 perspiration, dampness and atmospheric conditions, so that it can be pre
 served permanently, will be sent upon receipt of $1.50 extra. Foreign, 7s.
 DE LAURENcE, Scorr & Co.
292
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 upon your person or about thee and at the same time make a suit
 able fumigation by burning Temple Incense; and when a spirit
 appears before thee thou shouldest have thy wishes performed.
 But if thee have this Talisman, keep it a secret; so states an An
 cient Manuscript.
 PERPETUAL LAMPS OF THE ANCIENTS
 ALL fire, but especially flame, is said by philosophers to be of
 an active and stirring nature, and cannot possibly subsist without
 motion. Now there are several authors who have treated of this
 subject, though few that have writ to the purpose, except the
 ingenious Fortunius Licetus, from whom we shall gather a few
 undeniable proofs, suitable to the present subject.
 '
 First then, that there have been such lamps, St. Austin men
 tions,. particularly of one in a temple dedicated to Venus, which
 was always exposed to the open weather, and could never be
 extinguished. Pancyrollus mentions a lamp found in his time in
 the sepulchre of Tullia, Cicero's daughter, which had continued
 there for 1550 years, but was presently extinguished upon the
 admission of new air. And it is commonly reported of Cedrenus,
 that in Justinian’s time, there was another burning lamp found
 in an old wall at Antioch, which had remained there for above
 500 years; there was also a crucifix placed by it, hence it ‘appears
 'that they were in use with the primitive Christians. But more
 especially remarkable is that of Olybius, which had continued
 burning for I500 years. The relation is this: “As a rustic was
 digging the ground by Padua, he found an urn, in which there
 was another urn, and in this again a lesser, with a clear lamp
 burning, on each side of it there were two other vessels, both of
 them full of a pure liquid, the one of gold, the other of silver.”
 Hence we may probably conjecture, that it was some chemical
 secret by which it was contrived.
 Baptista Porta tells us of another lamp, burning in an old
 marble sepulchre, belonging to some of the ancient Romans,
 enclosed in a glass vial, found in his time, about the year I550, in
 the isle Nesis, which had been buried there before our Saviour’s
 incarnation.
 In the tomb of Pallas, the Arcadian, who was slain by Turnus
 in the Trojan war, there was found another burning lamp in the
 year of our Lord I401, whence it would seem that it had con
 tinued there for above 2600 years, and being taken out it con
 tinued burning, notwithstanding either wind or water, with which
 some strove to quench it, nor could it be extinguished till they
 had spilt the liquor in it.”
 Ludovious Vives tells us of another lamp that continued burn
 ing for 1050 years, which was found a little before his time.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 293
 There is another relation "of a certain man,” who, upon dig
 ging somewhat deep in the ground, met with something like a
 door, having a wall on each hand of it, from which he cleared the
 earth; he forced open the door, and there discovered a fair vault,
 towards the farther side of which was the statue of a manin
 armor, leaning upon his left arm, and holding a sceptre in his
 right hand, with a lamp burning before him, the floor of this
 vault being so contrived, that upon the first step into it, the statue
 erected itself from its leaning posture, upon the second step it
 lifted up the sceptre to strike, and before the man could come
 near the lamp, to take hold of it, the statue struck and broke it
 to pieces, such care was taken that the secret of the perpetual
 f
 lame might not be discovered. And the learned and judicious
 Cambden, in his description of Yorkshire (page 572), speaking
 of the tomb of Constantius Chlorus, broken up in those times,
 mentions such a lamp to be found within it.
 It is evident from these testimonials of credibility, and from
 several other relations to the samepurpose, that notwithstanding
 the opposite opinions of our adversaries, it is clear that there
 have been perpetual lamps, or which have remained burning for ’
 several centuries together; but, like the “malleable glass” of the
 ancients, the secret seems to be lost to the present age.
 Ealismanit (‘Effetts Q9f Ebe filluun ®her Gibe
 Vegetable worth
 To prove the wonderful occult power which “the empress of
 the night” possesses over the vegetable creation, proceed as
 follows :—
 Take any given quantity of common peas, and divide the same
 into four parts, keeping them separate. Then, on any spot of
 ground at all fit for vegetation, when the season approaches for
 sowing them, sow the contents of the first parcel on the first or
 second day of the new moon. The second parcel sow near the
 same spot on the first or second day of the second quarter; the
 third parcel sow on the second or third day before the full moon;
 and lastly, sow the fourth parcel on the second or third day
 before the moon is out. Now the first parcel, sown under the
 new moon, will grow very fast, blossom most beautifully, but will
 not bear fruit. The second will blossom and bear very little.
 The third parcel will not only blossom beautifully, but will bear
 fruit in abundance, and the fourth and last parcel will scarcely
 rise from the ground! Likewise all fruit trees set at the new
 moon blossom, but never bear fruit; while all others set three
 days before the full bear abundantly. And in pruning trees the
 same effect takes place, for a tree pruned at the new moon will
294
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 shoot forth branches, but unbearable, and if pruned at the full,
 they will be prolific.
 This curious experiment has been tried by the Mercurii and
 several other philosophers; it at once decides the moon to possess
 the most powerful influence over sublunary affairs, and whether
 relative to the animal or vegetable creation, or to the world at
 large, still is this influence perceptible to every searcher after
 Nature's secrets, and the discovery thereof will repay the curious
 inquirer.
CHAPTER XXV
 $pectreg Of (Lije Peab
 VISIONS, OMINOUS WARNINGS, AND
 SUPERNATURAL OCCURRENCES
 —Thoughmymind'snot
 Hoodwink'd with rustic marvels, I do think
 There are more things in the grove, the air, the flood,
 Yea, and the charnell'd earth, than what wise man,
 Who walks so proud as if his form alone
 Fill'd the wide temple of the universe,
 Will let a frail one say. I’d write i' the Creed
 O, the sagest head alive, that fearful forms,
 Holy or reprobate, do page men's heels;
 That shapes, too horrid for our gaze, stand o'er
 The murderer's dust, and for revenge glare up,
 Even till the stars weep fire for very pity.”
 Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
 Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep.
 295
296
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 So great is the dominion of modern scepticism, that the exist
 ence of spirits, and their occasional appearance, is now generally
 doubted by those who are termed learned; or at least it has
 become fashionable to deny, in public, that such appearances do
 exist. Now scepticism, under whatever form it appears, derives
 its origin from a want of innocence, and though it is wont to
 pride itself for the greatness of its wisdom, the only and most
 significant name that is due to its knowledge, is that of self
 derived intelligence, which is the greatest ignorance and insanity
 a human being can possibly fall into. Scepticism is more or less
 an evil according to the subject that is the object of its incredu
 lity; and as the discrediting the existence of spirits and their
 appearances leads to a disbelief of a future existence, and indeed
 to the being of a God, the ne plus ultra of unbelief, we shall
 endeavor to prove the existence of spirits both from facts and
 reasoning that would be very difficult to be set aside by the most
 incredulous.
 It is somewhat strange that the generality of mankind should
 have associated no other idea concerning the soul or spirit of
 man, than that of air or ether, and that it cannot be seen or
 heard, or perform any action till it is again united to the body,
 when our own innate perception, joined to the evidence of Scrip
 ture, will sufficiently teach us that a man is a man after death, in
 all respects as he was before, with the same body, the same face,
 the same speech, and the same affection and thought; and that
 the only difference is, that after death he is in a substantial
 spiritual body; whereas before death, although he possessed the
 same spiritual body, yet it was crusted over with a material
 covering, which by death he puts off, and never has occasion to
 resume.
 The idea we have of angels is, that they are spiritual beings,
 and in a human form, a very just idea,‘for they appeared so to
 Abraham, Lot, Manoah, to Daniel, to the woman at our Lord's
 sepulchre, to Peter, and to John in the Revelations; and as there
 are few who are not of an opinion that good men become angels
 in another life, it follows, of consequence, that the spirit of man
 is in a human form, and that helives a man after death in all
 respects as he was before, save only that he is not enveloped in a
 material body.
 That spirits have occasionally appeared, I think we may not
 be in any doubt of, since not only those who are termed super
 stitious have avouched it, but wise and good men in all ages
 declared in the most solemn manner they have seen such appear
 ances, many of which have been replete with horror, some ter
 rific, and some have assumed a mild and even pleasing aspect.
 And these characters who have avouched for the truth of spirits,
 have usually been of too great integrity to deceive others, and
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 2‘97
 their understandings have been too strong to be imposed upon
 themselves.
 When a relation of this kind comes evidenced by every proof
 it is possibe a good and sensible man can bring for the truth
 thereof, a degree of credence ought certainly to be attached _to it,
 equalling that which may have been produced in us by ocular
 demonstration. The man who will believe nothing but what
 he can see with his eyes, and feel with his hands, possesses a
 very callous will at best, and a dark mind; and though he may
 congratulate himself on his ability to discern the truth from
 error, yet the medium through which he views every subject,
 is in the continual act of rendering him the dupe of its decep
 tion.
 '
 One great stumbling block of unbelievers is, that they them
 selves have never seen them; for if they do occasionally walk
 about, they think it strange they have never met with them;
 which fallacious mode of reasoning originates from an idea that
 they are to be seen like any material object, and with the same
 species of vision, which is a gross error, for the bodily eyes of
 man can only discern natural objects; their vision is solely accom
 modated to the light of this world; they can behold nothing
 beyond it. Now it is only with the eyes of the spirit which is in
 man, that he can possibly behold a spiritual being, for like only
 can see like in the same common nature. And let it be well
 observed, that a man, as to his interior part, is a spirit, and is
 endowed with spiritual senses which far surpass those of the
 body, and that the body derives its form and life from it; there
 fore it is only when a man’s spiritual sight is opened, that he can
 see spirits, and then they appear as if he saw them with his
 bodily eyes, which is, however, not the case, the vision being
 purely spiritual.
 This species of spiritual vision is occasionally granted by the
 Supreme Being to particular persons. It was in this manner that
 the angels appeared to Abraham, to Lot, to Manoah, and to the
 prophets, and thus was Christ seen by his disciples after the
 resurrection. It was from this kind of vision the prophets were
 called seers, and “the men whose eyes were opened.” As in the
 instance of Elisha’s servant, of whom it is said that Elisha
 prayed, and said, “Lord, I pray thee open his eyes, that he may
 see.” And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he
 saw; and behold the mountains were full of horses and chariots
 of fire around about Elisha.”
 It is to be noted that when a person’s natural sight is opened,
 he is in a very different species of spiritual enjoyment to that
 which takes place in a vision or reverie. In the former the
 natural senses remain in full possession of their faculties, but in
 the latter the external senses are quiescent, the soul being ab
298
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 sorbed within itself, and so abstracted from surrounding objects,
 as to be totally insensible to all around it.
 We may also ask, would the notion of spirits appearing
 visible have become so universal, if it were not founded in truth?
 Would so many nations, who had never heard of each other, have
 agreed in the same tale, if fact and experience had not given it
 credibility? The doubts and cavils of the few cannot set aside
 the testimony of the many, especially as we know there is a great
 portion of mankind who, though they deny it with their tongues,
 betray plainly enough by their fears, that they believe it in their
 hearts.
 ‘
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Apparitions, Ant &ecrets @f The
 3ínbigible Ølorlb
 BY RAPHAEL
 The Divine Astrologer
 299
 I.—APPARITION TO MR. GRAHAM, THE AERONAUT
 (As Related By Himself To A Friend)
 “On the 22d of June, 1821, in the evening, Mr. G. called upon
 me in great agitation, and gave me an account of a most extraordi
 nary supernatural occurrence respecting the appearance of two
300
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 spirits,‘which he had just seen, as follows :—Late in the evening
 of this day, himself and three friends were going into the P
 n,
 Oxford Street, to have a view of some philosophical process rela
 tive to aerostation, which was there being pursued, when, as he
 advanced to the edge of the pit, he was surprised to see the ap
 pearance of two boys, who were perfectly black in visage and
 clothing; they stood at the end of the entrance hall, where was a
 chasm of nearly nine feet in depth from the dilapidated state of
 the building, and into which, most probably, the whole company
 would have fallen, had not these visionary beings appeared in that
 place, as if blocking up the road thereto. When the company came
 within seven or eight yards distance of them, they suddenly
 turned round, and instantaneously disappeared. Four distinct
 sounds were heard, and no more. Now it was utterly impossible
 that any human beings could either secrete themselves or run
 away, for the staircase was nearly thirty yards distant, and Mr. G.
 sent his companions immediately in every direction by which
 they could escape, but no one was to be found, added to which
 there was no possible outlet, the doors were all locked, and the
 windows closed, so that no human being could have escaped,
 unless they either sunk into the earth, or took their flight through
 the roof of the building.” This is verbatim as the aeronaut
 related it.
 2.—SINGULAR APPEARANCE TO MR. MULREADY, R. A.
 This gentleman communicated the following particulars to a
 friend :—One day he was busily employed in painting the portrait
 of a youth, and being earnestly engaged thereon, all of a sudden
 he saw, as it were, the figure of the youth he was painting, appear
 to leave the canvas, apparently going over the top thereof ; it then
 appeared to take a turn round the room, changing its position,
 and then turning its back to the artist; and what is more singular,
 at the same time he saw the some figure on the canvas he was
 painting. The illusion continued about the space of a minute,
 and then vanished.
 3.—OMENS OF DEATH, ETC., TO MRS. WELLS,
 OF WHITECHAPEL
 A few days previous to the death of Mrs. Wells, of E—‘—h P
 Street, Whitechapel, which occurred in the year 1823, the hour
 hand of the clock which was hanging in the room flew suddenly
 off, of its own accord, struck her father on the face, and then flew
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 301
 into the fire. Also several unnatural noises were heard in the
 night, as of a person washing, etc.
 But the most strange occurrence was this :—In consequence of
 a letter which a near relation received anonymously from a sur
 geon in the neighborhood, he postponed the funeral ‘for a fort
 night, and just upon the day of interment, he was woke up in the
 early part of the morning by three loud knocks at his door, and
 upon waking he ‘heard these word distinctly, “Why do you keep
 me so long?”—So confident was he that it was the voice of the
 deceased speaking, that he replied instantaneously, “I have a
 reason for it.” But upon reflection he was much struck with the
 strangeness of the occurrence, the cause of which he could not
 possibly discover, and no doubt remains of its being supernatural.
 APPARITIONS AT ABBOTS LEIGH. SOMERSETSHIRE
 APPEARANCE OFAN EVIL SPIRIT
 Somewhere about the year 1801 or 1802, as a servant of Mr.
 Isaac Smith, an extensive landholder of the county of Somerset,
 was walking upon Leigh Warren, in the dead of the night, he
 saw suddenly appear before him the appearance of an evil spirit.
 It resembled a huge monster, like a lion, and had eyes of nearly
 four inches in width. It was quite stationary, and only a few
 yards distant from him. The rustic was much terrified thereat,
 but, being a man of courage, he was resolved to leave some
 vestige or mark of the place where he had seen it, and conse
 quently he stuck his quarter staff in the ground where he saw it,
 which was found standing there the next morning by several
 witnesses, who went with him to the place where the hideous
 goblin appeared. This is exactly as he himself related it.
 OMINOUS DREAM
 Mr. King, a respectable baker, residing in Castle Street, Ox
 ford Street, a few years since had the misfortune to lose two of
 his eldest sons. They were at the time in India, and, in the
 month that the eldest died, he was shocked by dreaming that he
 saw his son pale and ghastly, and about to be buried. Alarmed
 at the impression this dream left on his mind, he imparted it next
 morning to his wife, and her fears increasing his anxiety, he
 sought out a vessel that was going to that part, and also by
 other means, urged every possible inquiry to be made after his
 son’s health. After several months he received intelligence that
 his son was dead and buried, and he died, as far as could be as
 certained, precisely at the time his father had the above dream!
 This he himself is ready to attest the truth of.
302
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 5.—APPARITION AT THE OLD LEIGH COURT HOUSE
 The manor, or court house, at Abbots Leigh, was lately pulled
 down by its present proprietor, P. J. Miles, Esq., a rich merchant
 of Bristol. But previously thereto, it had been in the possession
 of the Gordons, who were formerly allied to the Stuart family.
 In the 18th century, a lady descended from this family was
 disappointed in some object of her affections, which she took very
 much to heart; she rose one day from dinner, and remained
 absent some time, which absence being prolonged, the servants
 were sent in search of her, and they soon found her in the water
 closet, with her throat cut, and lifeless; this she did in a fit of
 insanity. After this dreadful act, the noises heard in this part of
 the house (as the closet was placed at the end of a long gallery)
 were so hideous and alarming; and evidently caused by something
 beyond all possible research, that they were obliged to have the
 gallery closed by iron doors, in order to give some idea of secur
 ity to the domestics, who were so alarmed thereat, that the whole
 of them were upon the point of quitting the place. The writer of
 this account had a relation who resided there, a lady of unques
 tionable integrity, and who herself heard it. The writer has also
 himself seen the blood-stained floor, which,..for nearly a century,
 remained. as an awful memento to the frailty of human nature;
 and no art could wash away or obliterate the stains, although it
 had been repeatedly attempted. This mansion was of amazing
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 303
 extent, and in one part thereof was a secret closet, where the un
 fortunate Charles II. was concealed after his last unlucky battle,
 and from which he escaped with great hazard; the story of this
 is related with many traditionary additions, and a few years
 since, some relics of this monarch were sold at a public auction.
 Amongst the rest were some chips of the wood on which he sat,
 which were sold for one guinea each, and also a gold table, and
 a curious secret cabinet, which contained, at one period, much
 hidden treasure. There are many relics of the place and its
 traditions still remaining, but the house no longer stands, it hav
 ing given way to a superb mansion. A monastery formerly stood
 at this place, and the antiquarian would find ample room for _
 curious reflection, were he to visit the domains of the present ‘
 proprietor, P. J. Miles, Esq., who would, no doubt, from his
 known liberality, be ready to afford every possible clue to anti
 quarian discoveries that should lay in his power. Not far from
 this place are the remains of a Roman camp, with the fosse, cir
 cumvallation, and extensive breast-works, equally valuable to the
 eye of the antiquarian; and it is strange that, although so many
 wealthy and opulent persons reside near the place, an examina
 tion of their contents has never been attempted. The prospect
 from this camp, which overlooks the Avon, is most romantic.
 A CURIOUS OLD ASTROLOGER, AND HIS
 SINGULAR PREDICTIONS
 At Abbots Leigh also resided M. Fowler, a curious old as
 trologer, who, without being able to write even his own name,
 was enabled, from mere dint of hard study, to predict many re
 markable particulars. He was in the habit of laying for whole
 nights together on a couch, in the porch of his house, watching
 the stars, and in this respect he resembled the ancient professors
 of the art, for he could ascertain not only the rising and setting
 of each constellation, but he could also discern the horoscope of
 the infant who was born, in the heavens, without the aid of ta
 bles, or calculations therefrom. He predicted the overthrow of
 Napoleon, and the rise of Wellington, many years before they
 were known in public events. He also discovered the Georgium
 Sidus, previous to Herschel the astronomer, and was an fait in
 predicting the weather, etc. He thus became the oracle of these
 parts, and being churchwarden of the village, his name was much
 esteemed amongst the inhabitants. But the most remarkable
 prognostication of this old star-gazer was as follows: On a cer
 tain day, the astrologer was in the company of Mr. I
 S
 ,
 then chief constable, transacting some business of the village, at
 the George Inn, in the neighborhood, and the conversation turn
 ing upon astrology, a rustic entered, an_d thinking to banter the
304
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 old man, inquired of him “whether he was in any danger from
 being bled, on that day?” Every one present, of course, thought
 the astrologer would answer in the negative, as there is, in gen
 eral, no danger in the operation. But to their astonishment, he
 told the rustic, “that if he was bled on that day, he would lose his
 life.” This, the fellow merely laughed at, and immediately went
 to have the operation performed. But mark the result, he was
 bled, and afterwards, by some means or other, the bandage came
 undone, and a copious discharge took place, it was again stopped,
 but, in spite of every endeavor, the part festered, and, in spite of
 medical aid, turned to mortification, and he lost his life in a few
 days, exactly as the astrologer predicted.
 FATAL DREAM
 “On Sunday last a respectable young man, named James
 Williams, residing in King Street, St. George’s in the East, while
 on a party of pleasure with some friends, was unfortunately
 drowned, near Barking.
 '
 "On the nights of Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, preceding
 his death, he was haunted by the most fearful dreams, which
 presented appalling pictures of drowning in every variety of
 shape, and with all imaginable terrifying accompaniments. The
 f
 irst dream he paid but little attention to, neither did he take
 much notice of the second, but the third_ in consequence of its
 repetition. making a deep impression on his mind, he communi
 cated to his sister. She, knowing the engagement he had made
 for the next day, and his intention of going on the river, made use
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 305
 of the strongest and most sisterly arguments to dissuade him
 from his purpose. All her entreaties were, however, without
 effect; he still, though somewhat staggered, determined to keep his
 engagement, and not disappoint his friends, and asked what
 would be thought of him, if he were to assign an idle dream as
 an excuse for his absence. His mind, notwithstanding, was
 strongly influenced by the conviction, that what was meditated
 as a day of pleasure, would eventually prove one of mourning,
 and fatal to himself: he therefore told his sister, that, should the
 catastrophe which he anticipated take place, let his body be ever
 so long in the water, it would be recognized by certain marks on
 his dress; he then punched three letters on each of his shoes,
 which he pointed out to his sister, and set forward on his ill-fated
 excursion. Boats are dragging in all directions for the body,
 which has not yet been found.”—Times, Sept. 8, I825.
 f
 ixtraurtiinarp ilntantation Quit filagital Qfiffett
 WROUGHT BY SOME RUSTICS
 Who Studied Magic And Witchcraft At A Village Near Mangots
 f
 ield, In Gloucestershire.—Communicated By Isaac
 Smith, Esq., Of Clifton, Somersetshire
 Demon of another world,
 To and fro so often hurl’d,
 By my power, through midnight air,
 Appear, appear;
 Thy master's will,
 For good or ill,
 Quick now obey,
 My power display,
 And at my call
 Appear!
 Monster! horrificl
 Demonl terrific!
 Appear l
 WIZARD or SCOTLAND.
 The following singular occurrence can be attested by several
 characters of known truth and probity, upon oath, if required;
 were it otherwise, the narration thereof is so strange, that we
 should forbear to publish it. The narrator thereof is still living.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 >l<
 >l<
 >l<
 *
 “It was in the latter part of the year 17—, that one bleak win
 ter’s evening, at the village of Downend, in Gloucestershire, Mr.
 W. S., a miner of considerable property, had retired from the
 avocations of the day, and was sitting in his ‘apartment, listening
 to the fury of the elements, and meditating upon the labors he
 had just quitted when there came a knock at the door, and imme
 diately two of his rustic acquaintance entered the house, probably
 to obtain some shelter from the inclemency of the weather, and
306
 THE OLD BOOK or MAGIC
 entered the apartment where he was sitting. After the usual
 salutations customary in those parts were passed, and after the
 known hospitality of the owner of the house had been proved by
 somewhat copious libations very common in the west of England,
 where the juice of the apple is esteemed as much as the juice of the
 grape in more refined parts. The conversation insensibly turned
 upon the subject of ghosts, visions, magic, and incantations, a
 theme which appeared of great interest. As Mr. S., the landlord,
 was acquainted of old with the universal character these men bore
 in those parts for being expert in curious arts and secret mys
 teries, he at length requested them to afford him a specimen
 thereof, which, after some hesitation, they consented to do, and
 one of them, who was the principal, by the name of William Flew,
 told him “to place the table in the middle of the house, and they
 would show him some curious sport.” This being done, (at the
 desire of the rustic,) he proceeded to draw a large and open circle
 around the table, and after performing several mystic ceremonies,
 and repeating several uncouth incantations, to the utter astonish
 ment of those present, who were several in number, there grew
 up in the midst of the table a tree, nearly seven feet high, and of
 beautiful form, the branches distinguished for their verdure and
 similitude to nature. This being done, it may be well supposed
 the amazement of those who were present was extreme at such
 an extraordinary vision, but none exceeded that of Mrs. S., the
 mistress of the house, who was so convinced that the appearance
 she beheld was real, that she grew very angry at the thought of
 “her fine mahogany table being spoiled,” and with some difficulty
 she was persuaded to leave the magical illusion uninterrupted by
 threats and angry words. After this, another mystic and equally
 unintelligible ceremony was performed which took up a consid
 erable time, and on a sudden there was seen to enter the room
 several little men, of small stature, and dubious form, with sacks
 or bags slung at their backs, each of them having an are in his
 hand, with which are they instantly fell to work, and with great
 vehemence began to cut down the tree, which they did with such
 violence, that the chips flew in all. parts of the room. After they
 had done this, these devils (for such they evidently must have
 been) proceeded with great care to pick up the various chips
 which were scattered about the place, and collected them in their
 sacks, seemingly very careful that none should be left. Having
 done this, they of a sudden departed, vanishing imperceptibly
 from the sight; however, one of the company, of a curious turn,
 found means to secrete one of the chips in his pocket, hoping to
 elude their vigilance; but he was soon astonished, and indeed not
 a little alarmed, to see one of the devils suddenly standing before
 him, and fiercely staring him in the face; however he paid but
 little attention thereto, but the person who performed the incan
>
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 307
 tation then told him that “he must give up,the chip he had se
 creted, or he would have no rest,” which he did accordingly, and
 immediately the supernatural appearance, or demon, vanished,
 and shortly afterwards the rustic magicians retired.
 The house (and orchard) where this wonderful scene of illu
 sion was acted, is still standing in statu quo, and it is very re
 markable that it was the identical spot where Thomas Perks is
 said to have raised spirits, as recorded in “Sibly’s Occult Sci
 ences.” It is said that there are a number of books buried here
 about, a tradition much believed by the inhabitants, for, in former
 times, it was the junction of four cross roads, and the centre of the
 forest of Dean. It is no less remarkable, that the above estate
 and premises is the hereditary property of the astrologer RA
 PHAEL.
8.–APPARITION TO MRS. SARAH SMITH
 (As related By Herself)
 During the early part of this lady's life, she resided at Ken
 sington, and it was in the spring of the year 1820 that, one morn
 ing, upon awaking, she was struck with horrific astonishment, at
 seeing near the foot of the bed, the appearance of her female
 cousin, then residing at Ealing. The spectre apparently was un
 dressed, without shoes or stockings, in a sitting posture, and
 looked remarkably pale and sickly. Being very much alarmed,
 Mrs. S. either closed her eyes for a moment, or averted her sight
 from the awful apparition, and upon again looking for the ghost,
 it had imperceptibly vanished, and nothing remained to be seen
 where it appeared. However, it is but proper to state, that the
 omen was confirmed; for, within a day or two of this, her cousin
 died in childbirth. Previous to her death she had expressed a
 great desire to see Mrs. S. This relation cannot be doubted, as
 she is a person of the strictest veracity, and now living.
 9—ExTRAORDINARY IMPULSE OF A DECEASE
 In the autumn of 1820, Mr. Graham, the aeronaut, had the
 misfortune to lose his first wife. While she lay ill, he had occa
 sion to go out upon some business, leaving his wife attended by
 the nurse; she was in better health, apparently, than the day
 previous. While walking in Covent Garden Market, a thought
 suddenly struck him that his wife was no more; the impulse was
 so powerful that he could not withstand it, and although he has
 tened home with all possible speed, yet, before he could get back,
 he found her at the last gasp, and, before he could recover from
 * See Sibly’s “Illustration of the Occult Sciences,” page 1121. Also Beaumont's
 “History of Apparitions,” in each of which the above adventure of Thomas Perks with
 spirits is recorded.
308
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC .
 his surprise, she pronounced a name and expired. This occur
 rence he related himself to a friend.
 10,—ATTEMPT TO RAISE THE SPIRITS OF THE MOON
 (As related By Mr. Flight, The Bristol Astrologer)
 A few years since, Mr. F. and another student in the occult
 sciences, resolved upon making an attempt to raise a spirit; they
 accordingly, after mature deliberation, determined upon raising
 the lunar spirits, or those attributed as such to the government
 of the moon: for this purpose they repaired to a field in the
 neighborhood, and commenced their operations. They drew the
 circle correctly upon a plain part of the field, and had no sooner
 began their magical incantations, than there came the most fear
 ful noises, to which succeeded copious showers of rain around
 the circle, but none fell inside thereof. After this, there came
 a figure apparently like a woolpack, which perambulated the cir
 cle, and, as may well be supposed, terrified the operators. How
 ever, the next appearance was still more fearful and terrific, for
 there now came a most furious bull, which hideously roaring,
 darted directly at them. The assistant operator, no longer able
 to keep up his courage, ran in dismay out of the circle, got over
 a stile which adjoined, and escaped. The bull pursued him to the
 aforesaid stile, and then vanished. Mr. F. persists in the truth
 of this, and declares that it was only by the most powerful in
 cantations that he ensured his own safety.
 SUPERNATURAL NOISES AND OMENS OF DEATH
 In the year 1819, as the family of Mr. Notly, builder, of Up
 per Thames Street, were sitting in the evening in their parlor,
 they heard a tremendous noise over head, which resembled the
 falling down of a heavy piece of furniture, but with such force it
 fell, that the house shook with the weight. They immediately ran
 up stairs, and sent their apprentice to the house adjoining, but
 to their utter astonishment, nothing in either house had fallen,
 neither could any cause be assigned for the dreadful noise they
 heard. This passed over for several days, and was partly for
 gotten, when of a sudden their eldest daughter was taken ill of
 the small pox, and soon afterwards died. There can be no doubt
 but this was an omen of her death.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 =|=
 *
 *
 *
 In the year 1821, Mrs. Noblet, a female residing at 432, Oxford
 Street, was awoke in the night by three loud knocks at the door
 of her apartment. She immediately rose and opened the door,
 but no one was visible, nor had any one been stirring at that hour;
 but within a month of this noise she had an infant child die very
 suddenly.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS‘
 309
 In the winter of the year I820, a gentleman and his wife,
 residing at No. —, Margaret Street, Cavendish Square, were so
 pestered with noises in the night, such as heavy blows on the fur
 niture, cracks, and once in particular they heard persons walking
 over head and moving furniture, as if but recently returned home,
 although the door was fast locked, and the inmate of the apart
 ment was from home the whole night; they were so pestered with
 these noises, and others equally as unaccountable, that they were
 obliged at last reluctantly to quit the house. After their depar
 ture, several deaths took place; ‘and, since that period, the back
 part of the house was entirely destroyed by fire.
 *
 *
 *
 *
 >l<
 *
 *
 *
 In the year 1822, a female, who was then residing at No. 5,
 Castle Street East, had a sister who died in child-bed. The night
 her sister died, a son of her’s, who was about five years old,
 awoke in the night, and saw a tall woman standing at the foot
 of the bed, undressed, with her eyes closed. The child being
 frightened, drew back his sight from the apparition, but ventur
 ing to look again, he could not see it. In the morning he told his
 mother of the occurrence, who was scarcely inclined to believe
 it, and tried to persuade the child that he must have been deceived
 by fear. But the little fellow persisted in his tale of wonder.
 Surprised at this, the mother sent to inquire after the sister’s
 health, when, to her astonishment, she learned that her sister
 expired in the night, and from all that could be gathered, about
 the time that the child saw her apparition.
 IF
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 =0!
 A few years since a lady residing in Kensington Palace died,
 and the night previous to her death, the whole of the inmates
 were alarmed in the dead of the night by a noise resembling the
 driving of a nail into the wainscot. It was remarkably loud, and
 though every inquiry was set on foot to trace out any apparent
 cause thereof, the attempt was entirely fruitless. It was de
 cidedly an “omen of death.”
 *
 *
 *
 *
 *
 >|<
 *
 *
 In the month, of April, 1825, a person died at No. —, Riding
 House Lane, Portland Street. The week before this happened,
 and before the deceased was an inmate of the house, the persons
 who resided in the apartments underneath, heard a noise over
 head, as of a person walking about and preparing to go out,
 although no one was on that floor at the time. The person who
 heard it, (a female of credibility,) thought no more of it at the
 time, but was surprised to find, upon comparing the circum
 stances, that the noise was heard precisely a week before the
 party died, and, no doubt, denoted such an event.
CHAPTER XXVI
 RESTLESS AND EVIL SPIRITS
 THE TAPESTRY LEGEND
 AN ACCOUNT OF A RESTLESS SPIRIT
 “At a social entertainment (says the countess), the Chevalier
 de Jacour was requested to relate his grand story about the
 tapestry. I had always heard of this adventure as being per
 fectly true, for he gave his word of honor that he added nothing
 to the story, and he was incapable of telling a lie.
 “The adventure became prophetic at the period of the Revo
 lution. He was 12 years of age, when his father, who wished
 ,
 to send him to the army, under the care of one of his uncles,
 brought him to his chateau.
 “The same evening, after supper, he was conducted to a
 large room, where he was to sleep; on a stool, in the middle of
 the room, was placed a lighted lamp, and he was left alone.
 “He undressed himself, and went immediately to bed, leaving
 the lamp burning, he had no inclination to sleep, and as he had
 scarcely looked at his room, on entering it, he now amused him
 self with examining it; his eyes were attracted by an old curtain
 of tapestry, wrought. with figures, which hung opposite to him,
 the subject was striking; it represented a temple, of which all
 the gates were closed. At the top of the staircase belonging to the
 edifice, stood a kind of pontifi or high priest, clothed in a long
 white robe, holding in one hand a bundle of rods, and the other
 a key.
 _
 '
 '
 “Suddenly the boy, who gazed earnestly on the figure, began
 to rub his eyes, which he thought deceived him, then he looked
 again, and his surprise and wonder, rendered him motionless.
 He saw the figure move, and slowly descended the steps of the
 staircase! At last, it quitted the tapestry, and walked into the
 room, crossed the chamber, and stood near the bed; and address
 ing the poor boy, who was almost petrified with fear, it pro
 nounced distinctly these words :—'These rods will scourge many;
 when thou shalt see them raised on high, then stay not, but seize
 the key of the open country and flee!’ On pronouncing these
 words, the figure turned around, walked up to the tapestry, re
 mounted the steps, and replaced itself in its former position!
 The youth, covered with a cold sweat, remained for more than
 a quarter of an hour so bereft of strength that he had not the
 310
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 311
 power to call for assistance. At last some one came, but not
 wishing to confide his adventure to a servant, he merely said
 that he felt unwell, and a person was set to watch by his bed-side
 during the remainder of the night.
“On the following day, his father having questioned him on
 his pretended malady, he related what he had seen. Instead of
 laughing at him, as the chevalier expected, the count listened
 very attentively, and then said.—‘This is very remarkable, for
 my father, in his early youth, in this very chamber, and with the
 same personage represented in the tapestry, met with a singular
 adventure. The chevalier would gladly have heard the detail
 of his grandfather's vision, but the count refused to say more
 upon the subject, and even desired his son never to mention it
 again, and he caused the tapestry to be pulled down, and burnt
 in his presence.”
 SINGULAR EXTRACTS
 RELATING To SPIRITS AND DEMONS, AND THEIR POWER
 AND INFLUENCE OVER MANKIND
 Communicated By Philadelphus In A Letter To The Mercurii.
 PHILADELPHUS To THE MERCURII GREETING, SENDETH THEM witH
 MUCH GOOD WILL—“A RELATION OFTHEAPPARITION OF A SPIRIT
 KEEPING THE TREASURES OF THE EARTH, AND OF HIS DELIVERY
 OF THE KEY OF A CERTAIN MOUNTAIN IN GERMANY To A CON
 SIDERABLE PERSON, AND wHAT THEREUPON ENSUED.”—Ab
 stracted from the Theosophical Transactions by the Philadel
 phian Society, 1697.
 “We received advice about two months ago from the Mar
 quisate of B
 g, by a person of undoubted reputation and
 great worth, who was pleased to consult with some of us about
 what was best to be done in this matter. How that in a place
 called N—n, there was a little man, seeming of about 15 or 16
 years of age, who came in the night to the bed-side of a certain
 person of quality, telling him he must go with him; and, as the
 gentleman refused, he was severely threatened by the other, men
 acing him that he would wring off his head if he still refused.
 Whereupon, being greatly terrified, when he had put on a coat
 which the little man had brought to him, the gentleman went
 along with him, and was led up out of the castle wherein he lived
 to a certain mountain; the little man then proceeded to open the
 mountain, and having done so, gave the said person the key to it,
 saying,-‘He would do wisely to take great care of this key, for
 that otherwise it would not go well with him. As the person
 awoke, early in the morning, he knew not whether it was a dream
312
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 or a fact. But, nevertheless, he put his hand into his pocket, where
 he finds the key that was given him by the little man, and it was
 signed with three crosses. He looked also for the money which
 he had put in his pocket, but he remembers that he put it into the
 pocket of the coat which the little man had brought, and carried
 away with him again. He beheld also his shoes, which, according
 to his own boy’s saying, the evening before were cleaned, but he
 found them now quite dirty. Now, after he had considered this
 a great while, and contriving what he should do with the key, he
 shows it to his companion; but, as he put his hand out of the
 window, the key slipped out of his hand; both of them saw where
 the key fell, but when he came down to fetch the key away, it was
 there no more. A little while after this, in the morning, when he
 was walking through a certain alley, he felt somebody give him
 a grievous stroke in the face, and yet he perceived none to be
 near him; but his cheek was swollen very much thereby, there
 arising up a great black and blue knob, and hereupon he sickened.
 But he is chiefly afllicted with the fallen sickness, wherewith he
 has been ever since troubled, notwithstanding all medicines and
 remedies used, yet not altogether so grievously as at the beginning.
 Likewise, as he not long ago was at prayers, in the church, (he
 being always very sedulous at the public devotions) he saw upon
 his hand these words—‘He is dead!’ No further particulars we
 have yet received; but, as it is already related, several questions
 may be put, that will deserve to be considered.”
 '
 Query I. What is to be thought concerning those treasures
 that are by many believed to be concealed in some mountains and
 caverns of the earth?
 Q. 2. Whether there be any peculiar order of spirits that do
 preside over them, and of what rank?
 Q. 3. What can be the end of keeping such treasures, and
 what must be their design in revealing them to any?
 Q. 4. Whether this gentleman could safely have refused to
 attend the spirit, and what method he should have taken to have
 '
 secured himself?
 Q. 5. Whether it is not possible that there may be real appa
 ritions and transactions, both good and bad, in sleep?
 Q. 6. Whether the obedience to this spirit was voluntary or
 involuntary, and how far the liberty of the will may be supposed
 to be constrained, or let loose in this night action?
 Q. 7. What was the meaning of the coat brought by the spirit?
 Was it a real coat, or only imaginary?
 Q. 9. What was it that occasioned the loss of it, and gave
 such an offence to the spirit?
 Q. Io. Whether natural distempers may not sometimes be
 caused from spirits? And whether evil spirits are not good
 natural magicians to hurt and destroy?
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 313
 Q. II. What is meant by the words—“He is dead," or “the
 man is dead?”
 Q. 12. What is to be understood by Isaiah ch. xl. v. iii.—I will
 give thee the treasures of darkness, and the hidden riches of secret
 places!
 AN ANSWER BY DR. LEE TO CERTAIN QUERIES PROPOSED UPON A
 RELATION OF THE APPARITION OF A SPIRIT, KEEPING THE TREAS
 URE OF THE EARTH, AND OF THE DELIVERY OF THE KEY OF A
 CERTAIN MOUNTAIN IN GERMANY TO A CONSIDERABLE PERSON.
 QUERY ONE
 What is to be thought concerning those treasures that are by many
 believed to be concealed in some mountains
 and caverns of the earth?
 THAT there are really hidden treasures in several mountains,
 caverns, and other places of the earth, many relations do con
 f
 idently attest. What ground there may be for such an attesta
 tion, and how far the evidence of the witnesses may deserve to
 be relied upon, will not, perhaps, be altogether unworthy of our
 present inquiry. These witnesses are not only dead, but there
 are also living ones, and some of them persons even of very great
 sagacity and penetration of judgment, as well as experience. The
 great mutations of the revolutions that have been in the world,
 but especially the terrible incursions of the barbarous nations,
 .
 from the fourth century downward, and the dissolution of monas
 teries in the last age throughout the protestant part of Europe,
 may incline one to believe that much of what is related as to this
 matter may not be quite improbable, though intermixed with rela
 tions that are either wholly or in part fabulous, and set off with
 some unaccountable circumstances and superstitions. The writers
 de Re Metallica, may hereupon be looked into.
 It is related in the life of Jacob Behmen, that whilst “he was
 a herd-boy, in the heat of mid-day, retiring from his play-fellows,
 to a little stony crag hard by, called the Land’s Crown, where the
 natural situation of the rock had made a seeming enclosure of
 some part of the mountain, finding an entrance into it, he went
 in, and found there a great wooden vessel, full of money, at which
 sight, being in a sudden astonishment, he did, in haste, retire, not
 moving his hand thereinto, and came and related his fortune to
 the rest of the boys, who, coming up along with him, sought often,
 and with much diligence, an entrance, but never found any;
 though some year after, a foreign artist, as Jacob himself related,
 skilled in the finding out such magic treasures, took away the
 same, and thereby much enriched himself, yet perished by an
314
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 infamous death, that treasure being lodged there, and it seems,
 laid covered with a curse to the finder and taker away.”
 And it is the opinion of some, that here, in England, there
 were formerly deposited such treasures in some of our churches
 and monasteries, with a curse upon whomsoever should find them,
 or should possess them, or any thing else appertaining to the said
 churches or monasteries, otherwise than by such a way of devo
 lution as was originally designed. It is also by some believed,
 that several of our monasteries were at first founded, either from
 such magic treasures, or from something of an equivalent, if not
 superior nature.*
 And it has been said, that the walls of the fairest and richest
 monastery in the west of England were thus built by one who was
 afterwards brought to an infamous death; he having too much
 enriched himself by a treasure hid in the church thereof, which
 he was taught how to have access to, whenever he pleased, by a
 strange artist, who led him into it, and in his sight, carried away
 thence a jewel of an inestimable value, though with great hazard,
 because of the opposition that was made. And there is one known
 to our society, who doth aver, that when he was at Rome, in the
 year 1693, he was there told by a person of good intelligence,
 how that there died, then (in or about the month October), an
 unfortunate gentleman, in the hospital of St. John Lateran, whose
 death was chiefly imparted to a great fright, though the occasion
 hereof was said by him to have been concealed, till he opened
 the same in confession. Wherefore the name of the person was
 kept secret, but the matter of fact was said to be thus:—He
 having been engaged in a duel or rencontre, had slain a man, for
 which he was obliged to fly and the fear of justice everywhere
 pursuing him, he absconded himself in very melancholy and lone
 some places, and one night as he was endeavoring to rest himself
 in the porch of the church of St. John Lateran, he was suddenly
 terrified by the apparition of a skeleton, who commanded him
 to follow him, and to fear nothing, for that he meant him no
 hurt, but a great deal of good, if it were not his own fault. So a
 little recovering himself, he said he followed the spectre into a
 certain ground belonging to the hospital, where the spectre stopped,
 and the earth opening, there was discovered to him six earthen
 pots full of money, which were encompassed about with flames
 of fire. Then, said the spectre unto him, “Friend, all this money
 that you see, I will now give to you, if you will but take possession
 of it; be of courage, fear not the flames, for they cannot hurt you,
 fear them not, I say, they shall have no power over you, for there
 fore only do they appear, that you may be terrified from laying
 hold on what I now freely do offer you. But what you do, must
 be done immediately, otherwise, I must deliver up this very hour
 * See Dr. Campbell’s “Hermippus Redivivus.”
’
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 315
 all this treasure to theisrnuTs or THE EARTH, who are waiting
 just now to receive it; accept what is ofiered, if you are wise; it
 will not be longer in my power to transfer the same to any, andl
 when it is too late you may repent. But notwithstanding all the
 persuasions of the spectre, this poor man could ‘not be prevailed
 on to accept the offer of the treasure at such a peril as presented
 itself. Only he made a mark where the spectre disappeared, and
 being left as it were half dead, was the next morning received into
 the said hospital, where he remained in a deplorable state for
 several days, being fully restored to his senses, in which time he
 made the aforesaid confession, with many other circumstances
 (some suppressed and others forgotten), for the truth there of the
 curators of the hospital making a diligent search in the place to
 which they were directed, found just so many and such kind of
 pots as were named to them, but which were all empty.
 That in Italy, there is great abundance of such treasures, some
 curious inquirers do pretend to determine, from many reasons.
 And there is not wanting a catalogue or book that is kept very
 secret in some few hands wherein all the said treasures are said
 to be registered. And we are credibly informed, that some per
 sons have been employed and pensioned for this cause, by those
 that are of a very high degree in the world, in order to make
 such a discovery. Accordingly some of them (the least guarded)
 we are told, have been discovered, and taken away by these artists,
 and particularly from out the ruins and antiquities of Rome, and
 also about Naples.
 Now it may be demanded, whether all these hidden treasures
 be of the same nature and order? To which, it is answered in the
 negative, that they are not. For, according to what the persons
 were,‘ unto whom they did originally belong, if they did ever
 belong to any, according to the manner and design of the con
 cealment, and various other circumstances, and lastly, according
 to the secret laws, rules, and orders, of the divers inhabitants of
 the invisible worlds, to them any wise related so is the property
 and nature of these concealed treasures very much altered and
 circumstantiated.
 QUERY TWO
 ‘Whether there be any peculiar order of spirits that do preside
 over them, andwhat rank?
 Some think they do enough when they cast all upon the devil
 that is of this kind. But let us do justice even to him; not ascrib
 ing to him more than he is rightly chargeable withal; or making
 him the refuge of our ignorance, as well as the butt of our ill
 nature. Yet, however, some cannot conceive or credit any inter
316
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 mediate orders and degrees of spirits, betwixt the blessed angels
 '
 in the kingdom of light, and the adverse ones in that of darkness;
 others of an inquisitive and philosophical genius, both among the
 ancients and moderns, do suppose that this would be to intro
 duce a mighty chasm or breach into the creation of God, and
 therefore they do maintain there are many intermediate degrees
 betwixt these two, in the scale of the spiritual creation, and that
 there is no less variety in the invisible than in the visible system
 of nature.* Neither are they at all shocked herein by the objected
 silence of the Holy Scriptures; for they answer immediately, that
 by the things that are visible, those that are invisible are made
 clearly known. And therefore, say they, Moses had no need to
 describe the creation of the spiritual, and (to us) invisible world
 or worlds ; for that, by having described that which is material
 and visible, we may thereby arrive to the discernment and knowl
 edge of the other, which is in it shadowed forth; and they think
 that Moses speaks fully enough of this to any that are skilled in
 the oriental and symbolical way of writing.1' They say, also, that
 David was not only a poet, but also a philosopher, or rather a
 theosophist, when he called upon all the creatures to praise the
 Lord. And indeed the ordinary interpretation of the 148th Psalm,
 and some other places of Scripture, seems but flat and low, and
 very inconsiderable, if compared to that high and exalted sense
 which they would have given to the same with respect to_the grand
 hallelujah of the whole creation.
 Now they would give us to understand, that these middle
 ranks of spirits were all put into subjection under man, so long
 as he should remain in the Paradisaical state, that is, should be
 a true and loyal subject to God, his Creator, by virtue of the
 blessing pronounced upon him, Gen. i. 28. and afterwards pro
 phetically renewed, Ps. 8th. wherefore they do suppose that not
 only the fowls of the air, the fishes of the sea, and the beasts of
 the earth were made subjects of man, in his original constitution
 (as he was the true representative of Goo, bearing his character
 and image) and were in all things obedient at his commands, as
 to their Prince and Lord; but also all the elementary spirits, or
 the natives, and spiritual aborigines of such or such class in the
 inferior or elementary worlds, whether they be of an aerial,
 aquatic, or terrestrial kind (according to the three grand divisions
 of these spirits there typically hinted at) were all made subser
 vient to him from that word of blessing essentially spoken forth
 from the central fountain both of his and there being; though he
 be not after the same manner so to them as to him; whence say
 they, both angels and men, may not improperly be called the
 ofispring of G01), and the sons of Goo, but that neither of these
 ' See Dr. Cheyne's “Five Discourses on Regimen," &c. also Dr. Nicholas Robinson's
 "Christian Philosopher," vol. 2.
 _
 _
 _
 1‘ See the Chevalier Ramsay's “Philosophical Principles," 2 vols. 4to.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 317
 expressions is at all appropriable or communicable to such infe
 rior orders of spirits, who, by their birth, are put under the feet
 of Christ, and (consequently) of man also, before he was degen
 erated into a servile and bestial form, sinking into it from that
 imperial and divine one, wherein he was first constituted. And
 from this ministration, subserviency, and subjection of theirs to
 man, they may be called servants, or hired servants, as some that
 are learned in the Hebrew cabbalad—do think that they are called
 in the parable of the prodigal son. Now as the servant is not the
 heir, but the son, so likewise, these kind of spirits are not the
 heirs of Goo, neither can they be, being born under servitude;
 and as an hired servant receiveth his wages, so doth every one
 of these from their Supreme Master; and though they may not
 inherit with the son, yet may they possibly receive portions or
 gratuities, and be encouraged with suitable rewards, according
 to the fidelity and diligence of their service. These, say they,
 were to have been the satellites of the human race in their Para
 disaical purity and power, and would thereby have been with them
 partakers of the heavenly favors and blessings which they en
 joyed, as a good servant whom his master loveth is with him
 partaker according to his degree of the plenty which the master
 possesseth. But the fall of man (who was the master) was not
 only a tumbling down of himself into death and misery, but it
 has also subjected these subordinate classes of spirits (who were
 his servants) to the vanity and the bond which they now lie
 under, by constraint, and “not willingly.” Whence there is hopes
 to them of a future deliverance from the bondage of the corrupt
 ibility and impurity of the elements (wherein they reside) as man
 shall come again to be restored to his Paradisaic state and king
 dom; wherefore, also, some do think that when the Apostle
 mentions the whole _creation’s groaning, and being in pains of
 child-birth for this deliverance, he might have, in the first place,
 an eye towards these ranks of intelligent creatures. And some
 relations there are that do seem highly to favor this interpreta
 tion.* Now as there is a very great variety, and even contrariety
 in the birds, the fishes, and the beasts, which we behold at this
 day, the which were yet created by God in a most beautiful and
 perfect harmony, so the like may be supposed concerning those
 invisible elementary inhabitants, that there is at present not only
 a great variety, but even a contrariety too among them. And
 though we are not able to behold them with our outward eyes,
 we may be allowed to judge concerning them, from that which is
 visible and sensible to us, when we shall consider all the orders
 of creatures that have terrestrial bodies. Some of which may
 seem to have partaken with men very little in the curse, others
 ' Particularly in the singular work of Count de Gabais, from which Pope acquired
 the machinery for his "Rape of the Lock."
318
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 more, and some so much, as it may well be doubted, whether any
 particle of the divine blessing remain in them, and whether they
 be not rather generated wholly from the curse. In like manner
 some of these elementary spirits may have suffered very little in
 comparison of what others have done by the fall of mankind,
 whereas others may have fallen under an exceeding heavy weight
 by the entering of the curse hereby into nature. So that, being
 naturally the subjects of man, they stand with him in the corrup
 tion, discord and wrath of the elements. And they must stand so,
 as long as the elementary strife shall remain, or until it come to be
 swallowed up into the holy heavenly quintessence, or divine ele
 ment, the undefiled womb of the morning, the fire-water of life,
 which the Eastern Magi have named their HASSHAMMAIM.*
 But if there be indeed such middle ranks of spirits, that do
 remain with man until the day of judgment in the contention of
 the elements and astral efliuviums, it may be queried in what rank
 of these do you place those spirits which are reported to guard
 the hidden treasures of the earth, whether in the mountains or
 in other places? To this it may be answered, that none of them
 are of the first or second, but all of them of the third grand divi
 sion, and though amongst these there may be those of various
 kinds or tribes, yet that all are of a terrestrial generation.
 Hereupon it may be further demanded, if there be such a pecu
 liar order of spirits that do preside over the treasures of the earth,
 that of these there be various degrees, (some whereof are much
 better than others) whether upon supposition of the possibility,
 it may be lawful for'man, while clothed with this gross and ter
 restrial body, bearing the marks of the fall, to maintain any kind
 of intercourse, society, or conversation, with all or any of these
 degrees? Some have earnestly endeavored to converse with any
 of them indifferently, without examining first of what degree or
 station they might be. Others, not so easily satisfied, have yet
 consented to a correspondence with some of them who have ap
 peared to be of the best sort. But whatever the practice of any
 may have been, either for a good or an evil end, we cannot but
 think such a correspondence, of what nature soever it be, and
 after what methods soever it may be carried on, to be extremely
 dangerous; for man being naturally their superior, and they his
 subjects, until man shall regain again his natural superiority over
 them, the danger may be exceeding great of passing away the
 right of nature, his true birth-right, and so of making himself
 subject to them, whose master he ought to be, and will be; if he
 be not kept down by a magnetical or magical force in some or
 other region below Paradise. Hence the rise of idolatry in the
 ancient heathens, who were much better learned in great part of
 the intellectual system of the world than the moderns are, under
 ' See Law's “Spirit of Love," part 1.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 319
 what denomination soever they may pass, or be called by. Hence
 the Egyptians, from whom Polytheism was derived to other na
 tions, when, in their temples, they worshipped towards the image
 of a calf or of an onion that was made out of this or that metal,
 were not so stupid as to imagine that there was any deity either
 in a calf or in an onion; but through these images they had respect
 to some spirit, or perhaps order of spirits, that was figured or
 shadowed forth in visible and corporeal nature by one or the other
 of these and that, in their sacred worship, was presented unto
 them in such or such a metal as might most aptly express such or
 such a planetary influence, according to that astrological and
 talismanical knowledge in which they were most eminent.*
 QUERY THREE .
 What can be the end of keeping such treasures, and what must be
 their design in revealing them to any?
 Ans. According to the nature of the treasure kept, and of the
 spirits or demons that keep them, so must be the end of their
 concealment. And whereas these terrestrial demons can hardly
 be supposed to conceal them solely (if at all) for themselves, it
 has hence been concluded, by most, that they do it for man;
 for being in their essence somewhat allied to him (as has been
 declared) they desire that he should be caught into their prin
 ciple; hoping hereby more to complete their essence, feed their
 life, and satisfy their nature, if they can but anywise make them
 selves masters of him, whose subjects originally they were. But
 as these are subordinate spirits, which are under the government
 of higher orders, so according to these, rather than the former,
 is the end to be sought for and as this is extremely difficult to
 know, so likewise is the uncertainty of the end. For the invisible
 kingdom have their politics in like manner as the kingdoms of
 this visible earth, and they have doubtless as various designs to
 carry on, and may make use too of as different measures to com
 pass them. However, there may be one grand end or design
 (under which many subordinate ones will be contained) common
 to the princes and subjects of this or that empire in nature what
 ever, whether good, bad, or mixed. And forasmuch as there is
 great reason to be afraid, that the apostate principalities and
 powers of the angelic world have here very far extended their
 usurpation, there may be a great design of them laid, which may
 not break forth till toward the latter end of this world.'I' Well,
 ' See Gafferel's "Unheard.of Curiosities," but particularly the letter written by the
 Rev. Mr. Bedford to a Bishop of Gloucester respectin a great mathematician who had
 communion with the spirits of the earth. This letter r. ibly has introduced into the
 4th part of his “Occult Philosophy " and it was previously published in Beaumont's
 "History of Spirits," &c. a work 0 considerable merit.
 1 See Dr. John Pordagc's Account of the Principalities of Hell, &c. in Beaumont's_
 “History of Spirits."
320
 _
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 but what can they mean in offering to reveal these treasures to
 some particular person? Ans. If the end and manner of their
 concealment, the laws, or pacts, respecting the same, and the
 qualifications of those persons to whom ‘these offers are made
 were perfectly known, then might we be able distinctly to resolve
 this query. But till this be, it is enough to be satisfied in general,
 that all such kind of offers are dangerous to the utmost to accept,
 or so much as listen to, without there could be such an impreg
 nable armor obtained, as it were impossible for any evil (or
 mixed) spirit to penetrate. And further, it may not unreason
 ably be presumed, from the most deplorable history of our country
 man, Dr. Lee, as also from some other relations of good credit,
 that certain subtle Luciferian spirits have been carrying on, for
 above this hundred years past, some great intrigue, in order to
 grand alterations in the outward governments of the world, for
 the establishing somewhat that may run diametrically counter to
 the spiritual Kingdom of Christ, which they, foreseeing, do, and
 will continue, by all methods, to war against.*
 But we know that Michael, the Prince of Israel, shall stand up
 to fight for the children of his people in the latter day. When
 the various centers and principles are unlocked, spirits of all
 kinds do go forth, some to teach, others to deceive man,' some
 to minister to him, others to domineer over him; some for this
 end, and others for that, according to the great diversity of their
 nature, degree, or office. Wherefore it highly behooves all men
 to be exceeding careful in an affair of this nature ; since the soul
 of man is so framed, that all are capable of being acted upon by
 them, visibly or invisibly, sleeping or waking, in one form or
 another. And if the true spirit shall reveal itself towards the
 latter end of this world in a more than ordinary manner (as many
 do believe,) it may well be expected, that there will be sent out
 at the same time, from opposite and intermediate kingdoms, both
 wicked and lying, as also vain and trifling spirits,'}' of various
 ranks, orders, and offices; and that, as the true spiritual christian
 ity shall begin more and more to exert itself, as in the most
 primitive and apostolical churches, so there may, on the other side,
 start up along with it, many impostures or delusions, whereby
 even well-meaning persons shall be captivated ;ZlI whence we ought
 to be very sober, and to examine into the grounds of all such
 appearances (if real) and constantly to hold fast to the true spirit
 ' It will be discovered by this, that the spirits that inspired the late Ioannah South
 cote were of the lowest order of these elementary spirits, and those that taught Baron
 Swedenborge, of the highest order, both, however, under the direction of Lucifer, to
 mislead two orders of men, of very different signatures, thus mightily warring a ainst
 the true spiritual kingdom of Christ, by spreading in many directions (gross and re ned)
 false doctrine; and these infatuated spirits will now effect more than ever, on account of
 the near approach of that period when such wonders will be manifested in all nations,
 as were never before witnessed.
 1' To wit the followers of Joannah Southcote.
 Sh $As was most deplorably exemplified in the late excellent engraver, Mr. Wm.
 arp.
 '
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 321
 of revelation and of prophecy, and by which alone the hidden
 treasures of the deity, and of the invisible worlds, are manifested
 to the humble and prudent of heart.
 A perilous day draws nigh, and is even now, wherein the false
 prophet and his emissaries shall exceedingly prevail! And as it
 was in the days of the Apostles, some may live to see sundry Anti
 christs setting up themselves, and calling themselves “the mighty
 power of God,” upon whom the God of this world will not be
 wanting to bestow those riches and honors which he claims as his
 own. However, the bank of wisdom, no evil or unclean spirit
 shall be able to draw near to.*
 QUERY FOUR
 Whether this gentleman could have safely refused to attend the
 spirit, and what method he should have taken
 to have secured himself?
 Ans. If his mind were already captivated with a strong imagi
 nation after such hidden treasures, it was then altogether impos
 sible (though we should suppose him at the same time to have
 the perfect use of his senses) to refuse such an attendance as this
 demon did demand, at least without the imminent peril of life
 itself. But if his mind were not before thus captivated, it doth
 not appear but that he must have been at his perfect liberty either
 to obey or disobey this troublesome spirit. For though the exer
 cise of will seems to be absolutely bound up in sleep, yet every
 one can more or less testify, that this is not perpetually so, but
 that they can perceive sometimes a liberty of following the free
 inclination of their wills, just as if they were awake. And it is
 the judgment of some philosophical and experienced heads, that
 could the imagination of man, ‘(wherein the original evil and
 curse doth properly reside) come to be thoroughly defecated
 and cleansed, all the scenes that pass before him in sleep would
 be real and substantial and all his actions relating to them would
 be free and voluntary. But the apostacy and degeneration of
 the imaging part of the soul is so deep, that this is not to be
 expected of any, without a perfect renovation of the lapsed
 adamical nature. Wherefore, since this is so, and that the reno
 vation and restitution of human imagination to its original seat,
 and subordination to the mind and wisdom of God is so great
 and difficult a work, it will deserve to be inquired what method
 he should have taken under the present imperfections of his nature,
 _
 '
 work has been recently published that will throw immense light_on this interest
 ing subject, entitled, “The_]udginents of God on_ the A ostatized Gentile Church,” 810.
 It is a reprint of a book written originally by a friend of 1'. Lee.
. ——fi-T;._-_--._‘-__ _
 322
 '
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 to have secured himself against the impertinencies and importu
 nities of this terrestrial spirit? And the answer to this is very
 plain, that every one ought to free themselves from all covetous
 ness and the love of this world, if they would expect to be secure
 from the machinations of all these orders of spirits, whether
 infernal or terrestrial, whether aerial, or else the inhabitants of
 the fountains of waters, who can take up various forms to act
 in, and are no less (if not more) dangerous when they transact
 their plots after an invisible manner, than when they do it after
 a visible manner. This is an effectual remedy against the insults
 and surprises of any spirit of this rank. And another remedy
 that is like to it, and not to be disjoined from it, is earnest and
 real prayer for the divine protection against all the allusions of
 darkness, with frequent aspirations, (after the custom of holy
 David) that so hereby there may be such an habitual delivery of
 spirit, soul, and body, into the hands of the Almighty, that it will
 be impossible for any other seizure to be made, either secret or
 open.
 QUERY FIVE
 Whether it is possible that there may be real apparitions and
 transactions both‘good and bad in sleep?
 This is already answered in the aflirmative. And not only this
 single instance, but many others do confirm the same, but espe
 cially the apparition of an angel to St. Joseph in a dream, warning
 him to fly from the intended persecutions of Herod, and the
 apparition of another angel to the MAGI, in like manner warning
 them which way they were to travel. Now here it ought well to
 be observed, that it is quite a different thing to dream that I see
 an angel, and to see an angel in a dream as this righteous man did:
 the former is phantastic, the latter is real. Here also a dis
 tinction is made betwixt substantial and symbolical apparitions,
 which last are, in some.degree, real, but, not so properly as the
 f
 irst. Of this kind were the dreams of the patriarch Joseph and
 of Daniel, and of several others mentioned in Holy Scriptures;
 whence the interpretations of these dreams was anciently a divine
 science, that was _not bestowed upon any but such as were highly
 favored and beloved of God. But as soon as man would go to
 make an art of it, it was presently defiled with a thousand super
 stitions, follies, and impertinences. Thus came in the Chaldean
 oneirocritics, which the Greeks afterwards mended according to
 their manner, as the superstition of the vulgar in latter ages
 amongst us hath done since, partly from their custom, and partly
 from strained allusions. Now it is certain, that these symbolical
 dreams are transacted in the soul by the ministrations of angels
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 323
 (of one kind at least or other) and where the imaginative faculty
 is purified from drossy and earthly matter, there is an entrance
 opened for good angels to administer, and to step in at certain
 seasons for assistance and succor, many undoubted instances
 whereof are not wanting in history, but amongst which I know
 none to be more remarkable than that which is related concerning
 the deliverance of a certain congregation of Protestant Christians,
 in the reign of Mary I. Queen of England, by the timely securing
 of the catalogue of its members, which must otherwise have been
 seized, and would have involved them all in the peril of their
 lives; and it is not at all to be doubted but that if men did live
 generally better lives and more depend upon the providence and
 leadings of God, such sort of admonitions might be more frequent
 than they are. Though there be also some natural signatures,
 with which some are marked, whereby they are rendered more
 apt for, and susceptible of, such impressions than others are, or
 can be.
 As for the other sort of dreams (if they can properly be
 called so) which are so very real and substantial as to be trans
 acted after the manner that in this narrative is recorded; they
 are much more rare than the former. But yet these real appa
 ritions in sleep are not so very rare as they may be thought, which
 is because they are sometimes not heeded, or believed to be so.
 But were men possessed with a right notion of the manner of
 the soul's working during the sleep of the body, many secret and
 hidden things might possibly come to be revealed to them by the
 apparitions of spirits or demons connatural to them, and also
 of the souls of their departed friends or relations; for the state of
 the soul doth then most nearly approach to that which she finds
 after her solution from this elementary body, and is therefore
 most capable of a true and real intercourse with spirits and souls
 of her own rank, if she be fitly instructed for it, and be also
 rightly qualified and prepared according to the instructions given,
 especially if she have a strong magical signature, or a violent
 magnetic drawing of her will, which to some is peculiar, and is
 exceedingly dangerous, until it be regulated, for that it associates
 itself more easily with the inhabitants of the dark and middle
 worlds, which it also not seldom mistakes for the holy inhabit
 ants of the light angelical world.” But such a soul, when it is
 brought into true order and harmony by an entire submission
 to the divine will, is a vessel fitted for all the divine influences,
 and is itself such a wonder in the mystery of God, as requires the
 pen of an angel to describe.f
* Whosoever will be at the pains of reading the life and leadings of Joannah South
 cote or Baron Swedenborge, will see how strikingly this applies to both of those well
 intentioned, though highly-deluded persons.
# See the last Discourse in Bromley’s “Way to the Sabbath of Rest,” and particu
 larly Tryon’s “Mystery of Dreams and Visions Unfolded.”
324
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ‘
 QUERY SIX
 lVhether the obedience to the spirit was voluntary or involuntary,
 and how far the liberty of the will may be supposed
 to be constrained or let loose in this night action?
 This is already answered in the solution of the fourth query,
 for thence it appears that this obedience was partly voluntary
 and partly involuntary, and that the liberty of the will is not so
 constrained, or bound up even in sleep, as to endamage any one
 that has not first by a previous consent, some way or other, sur
 rendered itself; upon which many reflections might be made
 relating to diabolical suggestions and temptations in dreams.*
 AWFUL APPARITION TO LORD LYTTLETON
 The subject of this narrative was the son of George Lord
 Lyttleton, and was alike distinguished for the raciness of his
 wit and the profligacy of his manners. The latter trait of his
 character has induced many persons to suppose the apparition
 which he asserted he had seen, to have been the effect of a con
 science quickened with remorse for innumerable vices and mis
 givings. The probability of the narrative has, consequently, been
 much questioned; but in our own acquaintance we chance to
 know two gentlemen, one of whom was at Pitt Place, the seat
 of Lord Lyttleton, and the other in the immediate neighborhood
 at the time of his lordship’s death, and who bear ample testimony
 to the veracity of the whole affair.
 I
 The several narratives correspond in materials points; and
 we shall now proceed to relate the most circumstantial particulars
 written by a gentleman who was on a visit to his lordship :—
 I was at Pitt Place, Epsom, when Lord Lyttleton died; Lord
 Fortescue, Lady Flood, and the two Miss Amphletts, were also
 present. Lord Lyttleton had not long been returned from Ire
 land, and frequently had been seized with suffocating fits; he was
 attacked several times by them in the course of the preceding
 month, while he was at his house in Hill Street, Berkeley Square.
 It happened that he dreamt, three days before his death, that
 he saw a fluttering bird; and afterwards that a woman appeared
 to him in white apparel, and said to him, “Prepare to die, you
 will not exist three days.”T His lordship was much alarmed,
 ' It is to be regretted that the answers to the other six queries were never published.
 'l'According to the narrative of a relative of Lady Lyttleton, the following is the
 version of the circumstances as related by Lord Lyttleton:—
 '_I‘wo nights before, on his retiring to his bed, after his servant was dismissed and
 his light extinguished, he had heard a noise resembling the fluttering of a dove at his
 chamber window. This attracted his attention to the spot; when, lookin in the direction
 of the sound, he saw the figure of an unhappy female, whom he ad seduced and
 deserted, and who, when deserted, had put a violent end to her own existence standing
 in the aperture of the window from which the fluttering sound had proceeded. The
 form approached the foot of the bed:-the room was preternaturally light; the objects
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 325
 and called to a servant from a closet adjoining, who_ found him
 much agitated, and in a profuse perspiration: the circumstance
 had a considerable effect all the next day on his lordship’s spirits.
 On the third day, while his lordship was at breakfast with the
 above personages, he said, “If I live over to-night, I shall have
 jockied the ghost, for this is the third day.” The whole party
 presently set off for Pitt Place, where they had not long arrived,
 before his lordship was visited by one of his accustomed fits:
 after a short interval, he recovered. He dined at five o'clock
 that day, and went to bed at eleven, when his servant was about
 to give him rhubarb and mint-water; but his lordship, perceiving_
 him stir it with a tooth-pick, called him a slovenly dog, and bid
 him go and fetch a tea spoon; but, on the man’s return, he found
 his master in a fit, and the pillow being placed high, his chin bore
 hard upon his neck, when the servant, instead of relieving his
 lordship, on the instant, from his perilous situation, ran, in his
 fright, and called out for help, but on his return he found his
 lordship dead.
 ‘
 In explanation of this strange tale, it is said, that Lord Lyttle
 ton acknowledged, previously to his death, that the woman he
 had seen in his dream was the “mother” of the two Miss Amph
 letts, mentioned above, whom, together with a third sister, then
 is Ireland, his lordship had seduced, and prevailed on to leave
 their parent, who resided near his country residence in Shrop
 shire. It is further stated, that Miss Amphlett died of grief,
 through the desertion of her children, at the precise time when
 the female vision appeared to his lordship; and that, about the
 period of his own dissolution, a personage answering his descrip
 tion visited the bed-side of the late Miles Peter Andrews, Esq.,
 (who had been the friend and companion of Lord Lyttleton in
 his revels), and suddenly throwing open the curtains, desired Mr.
 Andrews to come to him. The latter, not knowing that his lord
 ship had returned from Ireland, suddenly got up, when the phan
 tom disappeared! Mr. Andrews frequently declared, that the
 alarm caused him to have a short fit of illness; and, in his subse
 quent visits to Pitt Place, no solicitations could ever prevail on
 him to take a bed there; but he would invariably return, however
 late, to the Spread Eagle Inn, at Epsom, for the night.
 of the chamber were distinctly visible; raising her hand, and pointing to a dial which
 stood on the mantelpiece of the chimney, the figure, with a severe solemnity of voice
 and manner, announced to the appalled and conscience.stricken man, that, at that very
 hour on the third day after the visitation, his life and his sins would be concluded, and
 nothing but their punishment remain, if he availed himself not of the warning to
 repentance which he had received. The eye of Lord Lyttleton glanced upon the ial,
 the hand was on the stroke of twelve:—again the apartment was involved in total dark
 ness:—the warning spirit disappeared, and bore away at her departure all the lightness
 of heart and buoyancy of s irit, ready flow of wit, and vivacity of manner, which had
 formerly been the pride an ornament of the unhappy being to whom she had delivered
 her tremendous summons.
326
 passage :—
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Sir Nathaniel Wraxall, in his Memoirs, has the following
 “Dining at Pitt Place, about four years after the death of
 Lord Lyttleton, in the year 1783, I had the curiosity to visit the
 bed-chamber, where the casement window, at which Lord Lyttle
 ton asserted the dove appeared to flutter, was pointed out to me;
 and, at his stepmother’s, the dowager Lady Lyttleton’s, in Por
 tugal Street, Grosvenor Square.—I have frequently seen a paint
 ing, which she herself executed, in 1780, expressly to commemo
 rate the event: it hung in a conspicuous part of her drawing-room.
 There the dove appears at the window, while a female figure,
 habited in white, stands at the foot of the bed, announcing to
 Lord Lyttleton his dissolution. Every part of the picture was
 faithfully designed, after the description given to her by the valet
 de chambre who attended him, to whom his master related all the
 circumstances.
 “An engraving, copied from this picture, has been published,
 and is still frequently to be met with in the collections of print
 sellers.”
 SIGNS BEFORE DEATH.
CHAPTER XXVII
 MERCURIANA
 £13trological &mb #cientific fragmentg
 AN EXTRACT FROM
 /
 PARTRIDGE'S “DEFECTIO GENITURARUM’’
 Proving The Superiority Of The Calculations Made By The
 Zodiacal Planisphere Over The Old System Of
 Arithmetical Calculations
 327
328
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE NATIVITY OF MR. VINCENT WING
 THE ONCE CELEBRATED ASTRONOMER, AND FOUNDER or
 "WiNc's ALMANACKS"
 WITH SCIENTIFIC REMARKS TIIEREON
 BY RAPHAEL
 Hot. 5. Min. 48.
 Pl MU
 v‘io:+oo~>.[;‘»o*
 OHONOH
 Latit. Planet.
 51 S.
 57 S.
 46 N.
 20 N.
 23 S.
 46 N.
 Perhaps in some men’s opinions it may be disputed who is
 giver of life in this nativity, because both luminaries are in
 aphetical places, and in their oum dignities; but I think there is
 no ground for any doubt of that nature, if a man rightly under
 stands the text, and will be guided by it. Let him remember,
 Interdiu Sol anteferendus est, and by that rule the sun is here
 hyleg, without dispute. I am not punctually certain when he
 died, but as I think it was in the end of the summer, in the year
 1668, or 1669, at the age of 49 or 50. Nor do I know what
 disease he died of, but do believe it was a lingering sort of a
 disorder, attended with a hectical habit of body, and a consump
 tion, because MARS, who is FIRST in the train of‘death, is in oppo
 sition to Jupiter, and also Jupiter's square in mundo falls in with
 them, but cannot save, and therefore specificates the disease,
 which I do think is some disorder of the lungs. See the direc
 tions.”
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Arc.
 0 ad El 6 in mund. d. d. . . . . . . . . . 46 24
 0 ad 6 *2 in zod. sine lat. . . . . . . .. 47 51
 0 ad aldebaran sine lat. . . . . . . . . . . 48 34
 0 ad El *2 motu converso . . . . . . . . 49 44
 Gad 6 *2 in zodiaco. c.
 50 23
 0 ad El 74 in mundo. d. d. . . . . . . . . 50 51
 Yr. Mth.
 329
 47
 6
 48 11
 49
 8
 50 I0
 1666
 1668
 1669
 This is that train of directions that I do assign for his death,
 and this done without altering the figure he gave a minute, and
 besides, I keep to my hyleg. If any skilful man is of another
 opinion, I should be glad to see his doctrine published.
 Afterwards Mr. Partridge says, “He died September 20th,
 1668, of an hoarseness, with a catarrh and consumption.”
 REMARKS ON THE ABOVE JUDGMENT
 As Mr. Partridge has long ceased to exist, what I shall here
 after remark cannot be construed either as envious or conten
 tious. I merely make the following observations for the purpose
 of showing that this most justly celebrated of all astrologers was.
 in an error through the incorrectness of his tables, and probably
 for want of using that important invention of the present times,
 “THE ZODIACAL PLANIsPHERE.”
 With respect to his judgment thereon, and his choice of
 hyleg, I shall add nothing, they being consonant with the purest
 principles of art, but will merely observe that Mars was in almost
 exact mundane sextile to the mid-heaven, which denoted scientific
 acuteness and scientific honors. This Partridge seems to have
 overlooked.
 The system which Partridge pursued in computing his arcs
 of direction, we are assured was correct, as he has amply de
 veloped in various parts of his inimitable volumes, but his tables
 must have been decidedly erroneous, for, when calculated either
 by trigonometry, or by the zodiacal PLANISPHERE, the following
 is the train of directions:—
 Arc.
 *0 adAldebaran cum lat. . . . . . . . .. 45 35
 0 a3 [1 3 muqldo. (1. d. . . . . . . . . .. 46 55
 Yr. Mth.
 46 3
 47 7
 ®a cS*2intez0d.cumlat..... 47 50 48 7
 0 ad d I2 in zodiaco, sine lat. . . .. 49 40
 *0 adAldebaran sine lat. . . . . . . . .. 51 20
 0 ad E1 *2 mundo converse . . . . . . . 55’ 30
 50 5}FATAL
 52 I
 56 4
 There is a wide difference between the train of directions
 here given, and those said by the former author to be in force,
 and any one who possess a planisphere, or who is acquainted with
_330
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 the placidian method of directions (which Partridge followed),
 will be enabled to prove that I am correct in my calculations. The
 directions which are thus marked* I cannot allow to have any
 force in nativities, nor indeed any directions at all to the fixed
 stars; for, as far as my experience leads me, they have no efiect
 in a geniture. It is indeed very strange, that at the period which
 Partridge points out death to have occurred, he gives the fatal
 arc to be the G directed to aldebaran in the zodiac! Now in the
 computation I have given, it will be seen that THE SUN CAME TO
 A CONJUNCTION 01‘‘ SATURN, BOTH IN THE ZODIAC AND IN THE
 WORLD, two very strong and powerful directions, and which, con
 sidering the part of the zodiac where it fell,* in conjunction with
 Aldebaran, and free from the rays of the fortunes, most certainly
 destroyed life; and thus far does the modern system, by the use
 of the planisphere, exceed even the computations of the learned
 and laborious Partridge, the greatest of our English astrologers.
 \
 HINTS TO ASTROLOGERS
 I.
 THE HYLEG
 THERE has been much controversy upon the subject of the
 hyleg, or giver of life. Some have attributed it to the luminaries
 alone, some to the horoscope, and the author of the Astrological
 Dictionary thinks the moon is always hyleg.
 The subject has occasioned us much studious inquiry, and it
 appears that the moon has really no aphetical influence out of
 the hylegiacal places assigned by Ptolemy (namely, the 1st, 7th,
 9th, Ioth, and half of the 11th house). But in the course of this
 inquiry we have been led almost to believe that the sun in the
 f
 irst half of the 9th house, i. e., from the cusp of the ninth to
 midway beyond the cusp, is not the true hyleg. The editor has
 one instance in particular of a gentleman born May 2nd, 1781, 2
 h. p.m. lat. 51° 32', in whose geniture the sun was in the 9th
 house, and, according to Ptolemy, the true hyleg; but the sun
 came to the 8 of *2 both in zodiac and mundo, in the 42d year
 (Naybod’s measure) and the native was not in the least aflected
 in his health, neither for two years before or after, although he
 had losses in business.—Query, what cause could be assigned for
 this—And why should not the directions have produced illness?
 2.
 DIRECTIONS OF THE SEVEN PLANETS
 Partridge, in his "Defectio Geniturarum,” directs the lords of
 the ascendant, Mercury and Venus, to promittors, as well as the
 ' Although I deny the influence of the fixed stars as promittors, yet I allow them
 _
 ample efficacy in the Zodiacal sphere of their irradiations.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 331
 luminaries. The truth of this system could be soon proved by
 experience, were every student to direct the planets in his own
 nativity. If certain planets, such as Mercury for instance, rule
 the intellectual faculties, and other, as Venus, are general sig
 nificators of pleasure, it would be difficult to prove why they
 should not be allowed to point out the periods of events which
 they partly signify.
 3.
 MEASURES OF TIME IN DIRECTIONS
 The measure of Valentine.Naybod is now generally esteemed
 the most correct as to the computation of astronomical arcs. _
 Some artists still use the placidian measure. We are perfectly
 convinced that the former measure is the true one. Let the
 student, however, bring up the different directions in a nativity,
 both ways, compare them with each, and he will soon see which
 is correct. This is the only way to prove it, and can easily be
 done.
 4. TRANSITS
 In TRANSITS the greatest effect will be produced, when the
 planets turn retrograde, for experience proves their force at this
 period to be much stronger than when direct. For instance,
 Mercury is very powerful when retrograde, and never fails to
 give extraordinary abilities. Saturn retrograde is strong to evil;
 Jupiter more powerful to good, in every horoscope.
 5.
 PRIMARY LUNAR DIRECTIONS
 It is found by experience that the zodiacal directions which
 the moon forms, are efficacious two ways, namely, in the zodiac
 with and without latitude. But sometimes it so happens, that the
 parallel of declination, when she has great latitude in the tropical
 signs, will cause an evil or a good direction to have little effect.
 This should always be considered.
 6.
 RECTIFICATION OF A NATIVITY
 Experience proves that neither the truitine_of Hermes, the
 animodar of Ptolemy, nor any other method (for we have tried
 them all), except accidents that have occurred,_can be made use
 of for rectifying a nativity. And of these, the angles alone can
 be used, so that it is a very difficult matter to rightly correct the
 estimate time of a nativity, and yet, without it, little can be done.
332
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 7.
 THE NEW PLANETS
 Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, have very small power in
 directions, so that their discovery does not invalidate the old
 system. But Herschel is very powerful and efficacious, chiefly to
 evil.
 notice.
 Yet sometimes his trines are good, especially for public
 Posmous OF THE PLANETS AT THE GREAT FIRE IN
 TITCHFIELD STREET
 June 21st, 1825, the Planets were thus posited:
 ®29II43l 1> smzsrl ‘P 131148l1¢ IML2-316 22II55
 922625| ti 1011221131 181/350
 THERE can scarcely be a greater proof of astrology than the
 agreement between the planetary causes and the disastrous efiect
 produced therefrom, as exemplified in the rules laid down at page '
 I65, and 176. But it must be remembered, that at the time *2
 was in sextile to 74. Hence the ample remuneration the sufferers
 received from the generous subscription set on foot for their
 behalf.
 THE SQUARE OF MERCURY AND SATURN
 As a proof of mundane Astrology, and the influence of the
 planets in general, over sublunary afiairs, we need only mention
 the remarkable and atrocious events which have occupied the
 public attention, since the 16th of August, 1825. Mercury, it
 will be remembered, rules all kinds of public reports, and Saturn
 is the author of all that is base and vile. Hence the real cause
 of the shameful exposures relative to certain individuals, the
 irritableness of certain magistrates, and last, not least, the scarce
 ness of money at the emporiums of commerce, the stock ex
 change, &c. &c. Mercury turns retrograde, September 2nd, and
 about the 17th September again comes to a quartile of the same
 planet. This will, no doubt, produce evil events, and the month
 of September, 1825, will be noted for evil, mischance, and loss of
 money amongst speculators, the death of some eminent person in
 the arts or sciences may be expected, and finally, all who adven
 ture their cash, at this period, will repent it. Many scandalous,
 scurrilous, and odious reports will be in circulation, and it will be
 well if the mischief stops here.—August, I825.
 The year 1826 presents to Astrologers a singular phenom
 enon: the planet Mars is retrograde for nearly four months, and
 continues in the sign Scorpio, from the middle of January to the
 end of August!
 '
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
 333
 “It may not be generally known, that there are, at this present
 day, at least one hundred persons in the city of London, who are
 spending their time and property in pursuit of the philosopher’s
 stone. We have heard the names of several men of literature
 and science who are devoting themselves to this extraordinary
 labyrinth, they should go to study in the Bodleian at Oxford,
 where there are 5000 works on Alchemy.”—Sunday Times, Aug.
 14, I825.*
 '
 It is needless to remark, how much the study of Astrology
 would lead to understand these mystical authors, who were all
 Astrologers.
 FROM AN ANCIENT MANUSCRIPT
 A Cow; To CURE Ti-iE HEADACHE
 IF the pain be on the right side of the head, make a comb out
 of the right horn of a ram, and if the head be combed therewith
 it will take away the pain.
 ‘But if the pain be on the left side of the head, then make a
 comb out of the left horn of a ram, and if the head be combed
 therewith it will. stop the pain.
 '
 ‘
 To_MAi<E A TREE BEAR FRUIT
 “The seeds of roses, with mustard-seed, and the foot of a
 weasel, tied together in something, and hung among the boughs
 or branches of a tree which bears but little fruit, will remedy the
 defect, and _render the tree amazingly fruitful.”
 To I-liNoER FRoivi THE BITE OF A MAD Doc.
 “The tooth of a mad dog, which has bitten any human person,
 tied in leather, and then hanged at the shoulder, doth preserve
 and keep the wearer from being bitten of any mad dog, so long
 as he wears it.”
 A FEW QUERIES TO SCEPTICS
 \
 AFTER the able manner in which the science of the stars has
 been developed in the foregoing parts of this volume, and the
 luminous convincing examples which certainly must astonish the
 most sceptical, it is to be presumed, that in future, no sage lexi
 ‘ It will be noted, by the observing reader, that the above article was published in
 the London Sunday Times, August 14, 1825‘ almost one hundred years ago. The reader
 should also appreciate the fact that in this book is given many rare and famous articles
 published an studied s0m€thiIfiAilkC one hundred years_ ago.
 This, THE OLD Bpox OF GIC, is the only work in existence that contains these
 rare and old Manuscripts.
334
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 cographer, or encyclopediast, will attempt to re-echo the cry of
 Astrology being a vain art (as formerly has been the case), but
 will proceed, first of all, to give an illustration of its funda
 mental principles; by which means the public will soon be enabled
 to judge of its verity as well as by our writings. If, however,
 this is not attended to, and some author, wise in his own conceit,
 should take up the cudgels against our system, we would be
 obliged by his first answering the following queries:—
 1.
 Could the delusion of Astrology, as it is termed, have
 lasted as long as it has (for, according to Josephus the historian,
 and other old authors, it is older than the Bible,) had not there
 been some truth therein P—And if so should not this truth be
 sought after?
 2.
 Have any of its adversaries cast their own nativities, by
 the genuine rules of art, and have they proved the art fallacious?
 —Or do they, like old women in general, judge from mere
 hearsay?—If so, are they to be credited by thinking persons?
 3. Can any one explode a science without first learning it?
 4. Were not the first lawgivers, the first poets, the first
 priests, and the first philosophers—ASTROLOGERs?
 5.
 If the Astrologer measures by mathematical principles,
 the various arcs of direction, in a nativity, and can prove his
 problems correct, according to astronomical science, is not this
 at any rate a proof that Astrology is a branch of the mathe
 matics.—And, leaving his prognostications out of the question,
 is he not entitled to praise, for his merit as an Astronomer?
 6.
 If Phrenology be a useful science, as it is undoubtedly a
 curious one, why should not Astrology be still more useful? for
 the one foretells what is, the other what is to come! And why
 should the law allow persons to practise Phrenology publicly, and
 not Astrology? the answer will probably be, because of imposi
 tion.—But, it must be recollected, truth will always be sought
 after, and any Astrologer found deficient in his art would soon
 be deserted.
 7.
 And lastly, if the rules laid down in this volume for calcu
 lating, fires, disasters, and public calamities, have been verified
 for upwards of a century, which, any one who consults an
 ephemeris and a chronology may prove, and if this can be proved,
 is not this an argument that Astrology is at least an amusing
 science, and that the chances are greatly in its favor?
 SINGULAR PROOFs THAT FLAMSTEAD WAS AN ASTROLOGER
 “On the IOth of August, 1675, the foundation stone of the
 Royal Observatory, for watching and noting the motions of the
 celestial bodies, was laid on the hill where it now-stands, in
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 335
 Greenwich Park. The edifice was erected by order of King,
 Charles II., at the instance of Sir Jonas Moor, under the direc
 tion of Sir Christopher Wren; and it is worthy of record here,
 that the celebrated Flamstead constructed a “Scheme of the
 Heavens,” at the very minute when the foundation stone was
 laid. It has never appeared in any work, and as the public are
 wholly unacquainted with its existence, it is subjoined exactly as
 Flamstead drew it with his own hand.
 AUG. 10d. 03h. 14m.
 1675, P. M.
 Lat. 51° 26' 10".
 Observatorii fund.
 posita. ab.
 J. F.
 *
 |
 “Few men rightly temper with the stars.”—SHAKSPEARE.
 flamstead was the first Astronomer-royal, and from him the
 Observatory at Greenwich derives its popular name, “Flamstead
 house.” His “Scheme of the Heavens” may be found there in a
 folio vellum-bound manuscript on the second page. Opposite to
 it, also drawn by himself, with great exactness, and signed by
 his own name within it, is a ground plan of the Observatory. On
 the following, being the fourth page, is a list of “angles, betwixt
 eminent places observed with the sextant in the months of
 February and March, 1679, '80.” The remainder of the book
 consists of about one hundred and seventy pages of “Observa
 tions,” also in Flamstead's hand-writing. Whatever Astrological
 judgment he may have exercised upon the positions of the stars
 in his horoscope, he has not left his opinion in writing; but the
 circumstance of his having been at some pains to ascertain and
 set them down among his other “Observations,” may be taken as
 presumptive that this great Astronomer practised ASTROLOGY.
336
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 AN EXTRAORDINARY MAGICAL NARRATIVE
 The following tale I have extracted from an excellent publi
 cation, called “Legends of Terror.” It is from the pen of
 Captain L. Forster, a French ofiicer, during the sway of Napo
 leon:
 It was in the year 1811, during the march from Hamburgh
 to Stralsund, that we were one evening quartered at an ancient
 castle, and the conversation turned upon hunting and shooting,
 which at last led to a discussion of the secret arts of game
 keepers, and at length to the following narrative, with which, on
 account of “its horrible singularity,” I was particularly struck.
 “Ulrick, the servant of Lieutenant B. who was born in the
 Duchy of Gotha and had associated much with gamekeepers,
 began as follows: ‘Yes, captain, you may think as you please
 about it, but gamekeepers are up to things that are really aston
 ishing. With a Mr. C. head forester at Fr—th, there lived an
 old gamekeeper, who had to all appearance an ordinary gun, with
 which he never used anything but ball, whether he was firing at
 hares, birds, or any other sort of game, and he was never known
 to miss, even at distances exceeding by twice or thrice the usual
 range of such a piece; but this was not done fairly, for it is cer
 tain Old Nick had a hand in it.’ We laughed; ‘Laugh as you
 please,’ said Ulrick, ‘still it is positively true. You shall hear.
 One evening, we were sitting together; the old man I am speak
 ing of, several young keepers, and Charles, the son of the for
 ester.
 We were talking of the old man’s gun, on which he
 observed, that what we had hitherto seen was nothing to what
 he could do; adding, that he would immediately fire out of the
 window, if we would first decide in what part of the country he
 should shoot a piece of game, and what kind of game it should
 be. This appeared incredible, but we mentioned a spot in the
 forest about a mile from the house, and desired him to shoot a
 fox there. He fired out of the window, and we repaired to the
 spot specified, and there, sure enough, we found a fox that had
 just been shot. The forester’s son was very curious to know by
 what means this was done, and the old man promised to teach
 him, if he had courage to learn it; but he desisted at the decisive
 moment, frightened by terrible apparitions.’ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘but
 Charles, I suppose, told you in what way to set about it.’ ‘O
 yes,’ said he, ‘you must gain possession of a host already conse
 crated for the holy communion. With this, and a gun loaded
 with ball, you repair, on the night of Christmas Eve, to the forest,
 nail the host to a tree, go back a little distance from it, and, with
 a loud voice, renounce the belief in the blessed Trinity. Here
 upon you fire at the host, and this done, you will find upon it
 three drops of blood; these you wipe ofi with paper, and then
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 337
 make a hole in any part of the stock of the gun, put the paper in,
 and close it up again. When all these ceremonies have been per
 formed, every ball fired from this piece is sure to hit whatever
 the owner pleases.’
“I expressed my surprise that any one could believe such
 absurd stuff, but Ulrick persisted in his assertion that it was true.
 ‘For, continued he, ‘Charles contrived to procure a host, and
 went out into the forest with the old man, on the night of
 Christmas Eve. According to his direction he nailed the host to
 a tree, and repeated the oath of abjuration, but when he took the
 aim to shoot, the trees were gone, and he saw our Saviour nailed
 to the cross, and innumerable frightful infernal shapes dancing
 about him, on which he threw down his gun, and ran away.”
 Captain Forster declares, that he at first considered this tale
 as a fiction, but some time afterwards he joined the battalion
 where Charles, “the young forester” before mentioned, was a
 sergeant. After some conversation with him, the captain repeated
 what he had heard, and was struck with astonishment at finding
 him mention every circumstance in nearly the same words, and
 he persisted in the authenticity of the statement.
.
 THE
 OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 PART TWO
 338

IMNIFESTATIOII
 FRDII
 THE
 SPIRIT
 WORLD
 Q‘'
 \
 s
 \
 \
 Q
 __  _
 .. ‘.5.
 0\s,.
 ‘~~I
 This
 Faces
 Illustration
 394.
(Lije (PIb £ook Of £ilagit
 33art (Lino
 CHAPTER XXVIII
 THE LANGUAGE OF WISDOM
 FOUND WRITTEN UPON LEAVES OF YELLOW
 PARCHMENT OF GREAT ANTIQUITY
 SPIRITS FORCIBLY COMPELLED TO APPEAR AND A FULL
 CoNFESSION ExTORTED FROM THEM
 BLUSTERING winds and chilling rain proclaimed the unwelcome
 approach of winter; yellow Autumn saw her leafy honors fall to
 the ground; loud roared the storm across the Elbe, whose ruffled
 waves curled to the boisterous breath of AEolus. No more the
 silent grove resounded with the voice of harmony and love. In
 hollow trees or moss-bemantled walls the feathered songsters
 sought shelter from the rude unfriendly blast. The raven alone,
 339
340
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 from some sequestered tower, mixed his hoarse notes with the
 hoarser cries of the ominous bird of night. Safe in his peaceful
 cot, the honest husbandman relaxed his wonted toils, and whilst
 his well-fed fire defended him from the inclemency of the weather,
 enjoyed in sweet tranquillity the fruits of his former labor.
 After a long-lamented absence of more than thirty years, Herr
 man had the satisfaction of welcoming his friend Cronheim to his
 house. Educated together from their infancy, they had early
 formed a mutual attachment, which gradually ripened into the
 sincerest friendship, and united their hearts by the most endear
 ing ties—ties not less binding, not less sacred and invincible than
 those of blood.
 Great, therefore, was the reluctance with which they parted
 from each other, after having completed their studies at the Uni
 versity of Gottingen. Herrman engaged himself as private tutor
 to a nobleman of distinction, with whom he made the tour of
 Europe; whilst Cronheim, being of a more gay and volatile dis
 position, sought his fortune in the wars.
 The feeling heart alone can picture to itself the mutual pleasure
 and rapturous delights which our two friends experienced at em
 bracing each other, after an absence of so many years. Time had
 not yet extinguished the fire of youth and the wonted impetuosity
 of Cronheim’s temper. “Brother,” cried he, giving his hand to his
 friend—“Brother, let us forget the dull counsels of age; let us,
 whilst indulgent fortune still grants me to enjoy your company,
 live as in the former days that are passed; let us live as if the
 thirty years we have spent separated from each other had never
 been registered in the iron calendar of time.”
 Eagerly did Herrman assent to this proposal of his friend.
 His estate lay on the pleasant banks of the Elbe, and was, for
 situation, unrivalled. Woods, meadows, brooks, warrens, hills,
 and dales, relieving each other, incessantly diversified the scene;
 Nature had thrown the whole into such agreeable confusion and
 disorder, that it required very little improvement to render his
 abode the most delightful, picturesque, and romantic spot that can
 possibly be conceived.
 '
 '
 Cronheim, who, for hunting, was at least a second Nimrod, had
 here the fairest opportunity of gratifying his favorite passion; nor
 was Herrman a whit behind him in his pursuits. Pleasing was it
 to behold the youthful ardor with which our sturdy veterans, at
 peep of dawn, would bound over hill and dale, to chase the flying
 stag or bristled bear.
 Already had a week elapsed in these delightful health-bestow
 ing exercises: every morning was devoted to the chase; and when,
 spent and languid, they returned from the pleasing sport, a rural
 repast and good old Rhenish wine refreshed their weary limbs;
 nor was the bottle or the pipe laid aside till evening long had spread
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 341
 her sable mantle over the globe, and steeped their eyelids in the
 dews of sleep.
 But now a change of weather put a stop to their sports. Loud,
 as we have already observed, loud roared the bleak tempestuous
 storm; the rattling hailstones beat violently against the windows,
 threatening destruction to these brittle channels of light. Herman
 and Cronheim saw themselves obliged to relinquish the chase: in
 pleasing conversation they endeavored to beguile the tedious hours,
 whilst they recapitulated the deeds of former times, and rehearsed
 the past adventures of youth. Evening approached, and found
 them still indulging the talkative disposition of age.
 Louder and louder roared the storm, fierce and more wild raged
 the conflicting elements ; Herrman, with lavish hand, heaped fresh
 logs upon his friendly fire, and, pushing round the mirth-inspiring
 glass—
 Whilst angry elements do quarrel,
 Be their’s, he cried, the bust1e,—our’s, the barrel.
 Pleased with the cheerful humor of his friend, Cronheim re
 cruited his pipe, and, after a short pause,—“Brother,” he began,
 “hast thou any faith in supernatural agency? dost thou believe in
 ghosts ?”
 Herrman replied only with a negative shake of his head.
 “Neither am I a perfect believer in such strange appearances,”
 resumed Cronheim; “and yet, during my travels through a certain
 part of Germany, it was my fate to experience a strange mysterious
 series of adventures, which I have never been able to explain to my
 entire satisfaction.”
 This address excited Herrman’s most serious attention; his
 curiosity was raised to the highest pitch. Cronheim did not long
 hold him in suspense, but began his narrative, to the following
 effect :—
 My arrival at Francfort happened to be just at the commence
 ment of the fair. The bustle of the place, the incredible concourse
 of people from every part of Europe, the ceaseless and diversified
 round of shows, entertainments, and every possible sort of pleas
 ure and pastime, seemed to promise that my time would not easily
 hang heavy upon my hands; for which reason I determined to pass
 a few weeks in that place.
 The inn in which I lodged, being one of the first in the town,
 was crowded with strangers in every part ; among whom an elderly
 gentleman distinguished himself, and ‘attracted universal notice, by
 the singularity of his dress, the bluntness of his manners, and a
 kind of mystwal reserve in all his actions. His appearance com
 manded respect: no bramin could exceed him in gravity of coun
 tenance; no quaker in plainness of apparel. He occupied the best
 apartments in the inn, was attended by his own servants, took‘
 no notice of, much less entered into conversation with, any of his
342
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 fellow lodgers, went out regularly every day after dinner, and
 seldom returned home till midnight. Though he frequented all
 public places of resort, he was never once seen to associate with
 a single individual, but walked up and down, solitary and pen
 sive, like a man burdened with a heavy load upon his spirits,
 and distracted with care.
 The extraordinary character of this stranger excited my
 curiosity to be better acquainted with him: for this purpose I
 began my inquiries with the landlord; but who, shrugging up
 his shoulders, answered me only with a significant shake of his
 head. My next application was to the waiters; but they like
 wise shrugged up their shoulders, and were as ignorant as the
 landlord. In short, I found it impossible to procure the smallest
 intelligence about the stranger. Nobody seemed to know any
 thing about him.
 I had not been a week in Francfort before I had the mis
 fortune to lose my purse. This loss I attributed to my care
 lessness ; and, not doubting but some of the professors of leger
 demain had been dexterous enough to lighten my pocket, either
 as I entered or came out of a booth where wild beasts were
 exhibited, I prudently determined to be more cautions and cir
 cumspect in future.
 Next morning, however, in spite of all my care, I perceived
 a fresh loss which gave me infinitely more concern than I had
 experienced from my purse. The miniature picture of my Eliza,
 which I wore suspended by a riband round my neck, and never
 took off, except when I undressed for bed, was nowhere to be
 found. I therefore took the waiters pretty sharply to task:
 these, however, not only disclaimed all knowledge of the picture,
 but manifested, at the same time, no small displeasure at the
 injustice of my suspicions.
 In hopes of dissipating my chagrin, I went in the evening to
 the theatre: a handsome female, at a distant part of the house,
 caught my eye; I put my hand in my pocket, and began to feel
 for my opera-glass, rummaging first one pocket, then the other;
 but all to no purpose—the opera-glass was fairly gone. “Well,”
 thought I, “this is very extraordinary! and with that began to
 congratulate myself that, contrary to my usual practice, I had
 left my pocket-book at home."
 A boy with a link lighted me to a neighboring tavern, after
 the conclusion of the performance. At the door, I gave the
 conductor the usual gratuity; and, putting my hand at the same
 time, instinctively, to my fob, discovered that my watch was
 missing!
 In a fit of rage, I swore not to spend another night in Franc
 fort, being firmly persuaded that I had been singled out as their
 mark by some of the light-fingered gentry; who, actuated by
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 343
 the same principle as other traders—“the sacred thirst of gain’
 I
 —are equally punctual in their attendance at fairs, and every
 other opportunity of making money. Resolved, therefore, to
 pack up my things early the next morning, and leave a place
 where I had experienced nothing but misfortunes, I seated myself
 in sullen despondency, without taking the least notice of the
 company around. Already had I finished my supper, and was
 preparing to depart, when, in the very moment that I pushed
 back my seat—“Pray, Sir, what o’clock is it?” demanded a
 neighboring voice. I made no answer to this question, which
 so unseasonably reminded me of my new loss.
 “What o’clock is it, Sir?" interrogated the same voice a second
 time. “I cannot tell,” I replied with peevish impatience, still
 advancing towards the door.
 “Have you no watch, then?” was the next demand. Vexed
 at the officious impertinence of the stranger, I turned round to
 look at him, and oh! heavens! what was my surprise at beholding,
 in the person of my inquirer, no other than my fellow lodger in
 the inn—the elderly unsociable gentleman, whose character had
 before so much excited my curiosity.
 The serious look with which he regarded me sufficiently indi
 cated that he expected an answer to his question.
 “My watch,” I began—
 “Has been stolen from you,” interrupted the stranger; “how
 ever, give yourself no uneasiness. I have been fortunate enough
 to discover the thief. Here, Sir, is your watch, and take better
 care of it in future.”
 I stood for some time mute with astonishment. The same
 hands which purloined my watch had, I made no doubt, exercised
 their ingenuity on the‘other articles I had lately lost. This
 rendered me extremely anxious to know the offender, but, before
 I was sufficiently recovered from my surprise to commence my
 inquiries, the stranger had left the room.
 I immediately hurried back to the inn: the stranger did not
 return till midnight. The moment I heard his footsteps on the
 stairs, I flew to meet him; and, making a low bow, began to
 thank him for the recovery of my watch. But the unsociable
 gentleman, without deigning to take the least notice of my dis
 course, passed abruptly by me, and, entering his own apartment,
 locked the door after him.
 All subsequent attempts to enter into conversation with the
 wonderful stranger proved equally abortive. In the inn, he con
 stantly kept himself locked in his own apartment, and, in places of
 public resort, seemed assiduously to avoid me. Three days
 passed in fruitless endeavors; at length, provoked with the old
 gentleman’s unaccountable reserve, I determined to give myself
 no further trouble about him, but, packing my portmanteau,
344
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 fixed upon the following day for my departure, although I had
 met with no fresh loss or disaster since the recovery of my watch.
 Previous to leaving Holstein, I had been supplied by my
 uncle, Mr. Vander Laer, of Hamburg, with bills for a considerable
 amount, drawn upon a certain house in Leipzig, with which my
 uncle transacted business. Being low in cash, I resolved to get
 these bills negotiated in Francfort, and therefore set out, imme
 diately after breakfast, in quest of a merchant to whom I had
 been recommended for that purpose. I met with little difficulty
 in finding out the house, but had so much the more in finding
 my pocket-book, which, after feeling for it first in the right
 pocket, then in the left, then in the right again, and so on alter
 nately for a full half hour, was actually missing.
 “I certainly must have left it at home!” cried I: and, posting
 back to the inn, unpacked my trunk, and emptied its contents a
 dozen times at least; but all to no purpose—pocket-book and
 notes were irrecoverably lost.
How I passed the remainder of the day after this discovery,
 I shall not attempt to describe. Evening approached, and found
 me still busy in rummaging every hole and corner in quest of
 my pocket-book, which, however, did not think proper to be
 forthcoming. The greatmess of my loss hardly suffered me
 to be convinced Qf its reality; after one of the most uneasy
 nights that can possibly be conceived, I renewed the search next
 morning, but with no better success than before.
 Stranger in a foreign land, without money, without friends,
 I now beheld myself the slave of necessity; and, with my eyes
 fixed sullenly upon the ground, stood wringing my hands, and
 calling down curses upon myself, and the unknown author of
 my calamity, when I was roused from my painful reflections
 by a sudden knock at the door. “Walk in,” I cried with peevish
 impatience: the door flew open, and who should make his ap
 pearance but my fellow lodger, the strange unsociable gentleman!
 “Young man” (presenting a bill to me), “here is sufficient to
 carry you home to your friends; the post sets out tomorrow
 morning. I wish you a pleasant journey: farewell!”
 In an instant lay the draft upon the table, and away hurried
 the donor, before I had time to recover from my surprise, or
 to utter a single syllable. Astonishment long held me, as it were,
 chained to my seat; but curiosity to be acquainted with the
 nature of the stranger's bounty getting, at length, the better of
 my amazement, I proceeded to examine the paper, which I found
 to be a bill for one hundred and twenty dollars, drawn upon a
 merchant in Francfort, and payable at sight.
 If I was before confounded and surprised, I was now not
 less vexed and chagrined at this adventure, in consequence of
 which I saw myself debtor to the generosity of a stranger, whom
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 345
 nobody seemed to know, whose very name and place of abode
 I had in vain attempted to discover: what probability, therefore,
 had I of ever acquitting myself of my obligations by making
 restitution? “I must and will learn his address,” was my final
 determination; accordingly, I repaired to the stranger’s apart
 ment, knocked at the door, but, to my great disappointment,
 found him not at home. In hopes of dissipating my uneasiness,
 I likewise resolved upon a walk, and hurried to join the busy
 scenes of tumult and confusion which the fair exhibited.
 It was late when I returned back to the inn. The stranger
 had not arrived. His usual hour was midnight; I therefore
 proposed to wait his return, and either to insist on knowing his
 address, or else compel him to take his present back again. For
 this purpose, leaving my door a-jar, I seated myself on a sofa,
 and endeavoured to beguile the tedious hours of expectation by
 reading a German translation of Ossian.
 Midnight approached without any signs of the stranger’s re
 turn. I still continued stretched upon the sofa; at length I grew
 drowsy, Ossian dropped out of my hands, my eye-lids closed
 involuntarily, and, overpowered by sleep, I already nodded, when
 I was suddenly roused by a noise at the door of my room. I
 started up—all was silent. I opened the, door—could hear nothing
 —see nothing. It certainly must have been imagination—I must
 have fancied or dreamed that I heard a noise. Resuming, there
 fore, my book, I rubbed my eyes, wiped them with a wet cloth,
 and, that I might be in less danger of giving way to slumber,
 began to read aloud:
 “Does the wind touch thee, O harp, or is it some passing
 ghost?”
 Hardly had I pronounced the last words, when the noise re
 turned. I could plainly distinguish the tread of human feet
 along the passage: the noise drew nearer and nearer. Pres
 ently I believed I heard a trembling hand groping for the lock
 of the door, which, opening gradually, discovered a female figure
 dressed in white, with a veil over her face, that reached half way
 down her shoulders.
 Slow and solemn, with her back turned to me, she drew
 near the table, took up my watch, examined it attentively, sighed
 thrice and deeply, replaced my watch upon the table, and con
 tinued her walk to the opposite corner of the room. In re
 passing, she rested her head upon her left hand, and, drawing
 her veil aside with her right hand, I beheld, with horror and
 astonishment, the very features of Eliza; but her countenance
 pale, her eyes sunk and hollow, and her brow contracted with
 indignation.
 After a short pause, she drew nearer, cast an angry look at
 me, held up her hand in a threatening attitude, and, thrice beating
346
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 her breast, whilst heart-piercing groans burst from her bosom,
 regained the door, and disappeared.
 On recovering from my surprise, I found myself still seated
 upon the sofa, and, revolving in my mind every concomitant
 circumstance of this extraordinary apparition, was firmly per
 suaded that the whole adventure could be nothing but a dream.
 I looked at my watch—it was exactly one o'clock. Impatient at
 the stranger's delay, I threw myself, dressed as I was, upon the
 bed, and slept till late in the morning. My first care, upon
 awaking, was to inquire of the waiter whether the strange gen
 tleman had returned to the inn last night. I was answered in
 the negative. “Has he left Francfort?—Did he make any men
 tion of traveling?”
 “To have taken any notice to us of his intended journey,”
 replied the waiter, “would be contrary to the mysterious reserve
 of his character; it is, however, probable enough that he is gone.
 His reckoning he settles regularly every day after dinner; and,
 as to trunks or baggage, he never carries any thing of the kind
 along with him.”
“Suppose we step to his apartment; I am curious to satisfy
 myself whether he be actually gone or not.”
 The key stood in the door; but, excepting the usual furni
 ture of the room, not the smallest trace was there of any person
 having lodged in it.
 This was to me a very unwelcome discovery. What hope
 could I now have of ever being able to acquit myself of my obli
 gations to my unknown benefactor? More than once I felt
 myself tempted to destroy the bill for which I stood indebted
 to his bounty; but this, as I justly reflected, could in no shape
 cancel or lessen my obligation. Suddenly the thought shot
 across my mind, that perhaps the bill might be of no value; it
 might be fictitious—might be drawn upon a person that was
 nowhere to be found. Though this supposition, in case it should
 prove true, threatened to involve me in my former embarrass
 ment, I took a strange delight in cherishing the idea, and, that
 I might put an end to my suspense, showed the note to my land
 lord, under pretence of inquiring after the merchant on whom
 it was drawn. The innkeeper instantly described the street and
 house, offering to send his boy with me to show me the way: this,
 however, I thought proper to decline.
 I went therefore alone, and tendered my bill for payment
 the same morning. The merchant ran over the draft, and then
 fixed his eyes with uncommon significance upon me. His looks
 seemed expressive of something more than mere astonishment.
 This I considered as a confirmation of my suspicions, and ex
 pected every moment to hear the validity of my bill called in
 question. I found myself, however, mistaken; the merchant,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 347
 still eyeing me with the same significant attention, opened his
 desk, and counted me the money. This seemed a favorable op
 portunity to obtain some intelligence concerning the stranger
 from whom I had received the note; I ventured, therefore, to
 question the merchant about the drawer of the bill. Evidently
 disconcerted at this demand, the merchant shrugged his shoul
 ders, and, without making any reply, locked his desk and de
 parted! I found his conduct strangely mysterious: a confused
 train of ideas rushed upon my mind ;' a walk seemed best calcu
 lated to drive away the vapors; I repaired, therefore to a neigh
 boring tea-garden.
 The beauty of the weather had enticed a large concourse of
 people to the place. I took my seat in a pleasant arbor, where
 woodbine and white-thorn interwove their friendly branches,
 and, calling for chocolate, began, whilst this was preparing, to
 give free scope to my meditations, and to ruminate on the strange
 occurrences which I had witnessed during my short abode at
 Francfort. Above all, my dream engrossed my most serious
 thoughts; the more I reflected upon every particular, the more
 extraordinary I found it. Eliza’s look, her wrathful countenance,
 the threatening manner in which she held up her hand—and but
 too well I knew how justly I deserved her anger—all appeared
 so natural, so suited to my present circumstances, that some
 times I inclined to consider last night's adventure as more than
 a mere dream. But against this opinion reason and incredulity
 raised a thousand unanswerable objections. I endeavored to banish
 the whole idea from my mind; in vain—my dream returned, re
 volted, recoiled upon my imagination; opposition only served to
 give it additional force. Painful was the struggle between con
 tending sentiments; I could support the conflict no longer: for
 getful of the place—forgetful of the company, I broke out into
 a loud exclamation—“Yes! it must have been a dream.” " ’Twas
 no dream,” rejoined a voice, familiar to my ear. Astonished and
 confounded, I lifted up my eyes: the strange gentleman, my
 unknown friend and benefactor, stood before me.
 “Young man,” he continued, “if you wish to be satisfied rela
 tive to what you saw last night, meet me at ten o'clock this
 evening, at the corner of Frederic Street, facing the Dolphin.”
 Without waiting my reply, the stranger hurried out of the arbor,
 and in an instant lost himself among the crowd.
 Soon after, the waiter made his appearance with the choco
 late, but my appetite was gone. I traversed the garden, wan
 dered up and down its walks, searched everywhere for the won
 derful stranger, inquired after him of the waiters, described him,
 characterized him, offered a reward for any one that should
 discover him, but all to no purpose; none of the waiters had seen
 any person that answered his description.
348
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Chagrined at the ill success of my inquiries, I returned to
 the inn, and, with a kind of secret horror, entered my apartment, ,
 where the image of Eliza seemed still to hover round me. Pain
 ful conjectures tortured my mind: her pallid countenance, hollow
 eyes, and the signs of mortality portrayed in her looks, filled
 me with the most gloomy apprehensions. The place seemed
 insupportable: restless and uneasy, I wandered from one scene
 of bustling impertinence to another; from the inn to the coffee
 house, from the coffee-house to the mall, from the mall to the
 exhibition-room, from the exhibition-room to the fair, to the
 booths, to puppet-shows, merry Andrews, wild beasts, &c.—
 Nothing could restore me to tranquility—nothing afford me relief
 —nothing calm the tempest of my thoughts.
 .
 With the approach of evening, my assignation with the won
 derful incognito engrossed my meditations. Strange ideas, un
 accountable forebodings, harassed my mind. The time, the place
 of meeting, seemed equally mysterious and alarming. “Why not
 f
 ix upon an earlier hour? Why not upon his own apartment at
 the inn? Go I, or go I not?” I incessantly put the question to
 myself, whilst my wavering resolution, like a pair of balances,
 preponderated this way, then ‘that, alternately. “What risk, what
 danger, mayest thou expose thyself to by going?” demanded Pru
 dence. “What discoveries mayest thou not make?” replied Curi
 osity: “tomorrow is the day appointed for thy departure from
 Francfort, and this very night an opportunity offers of obtaining
 light, and satisfactory information, concerning all the strange
 and intricate occurrences which have lately taken place.‘ How
 will it repent thee to neglect so favorable an opportunity? And
 of whom standest thou in dread? Shame upon thy manhood,
 to tremble at an old greyheaded gentleman.” “A gentleman
 to whom thou art, moreover, under obligations,” added Pride,
 “which this very evening thou mayest learn to acquit thyself of.”
 —Yes, I go, was the conclusion of my deliberations.
 It was now within half an hour of ten o’clock. I returned
 to the inn to prepare for my intended expedition. The landlord
 meeting me at the door, accosted me with more than usual gaiety.
 “Sir,” he began, “I have an agreeable piece of news to com
 municate, that will, I make no doubt, afford you equal pleasure
 and surprise.”
 “What is it?” I demanded with astonishment.
 “During your abode in my house, you have had the misfor
 tune to lose, at different times, sundry valuable articles.”
 “That, indeed, is but too true,” I replied, with a look that
 seemed to ask whether this was the pleasant and surprising news
 my landlord had announced.
 “These losses,” continued the innkeeper, “have been produc
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 349
 tive of much trouble and uneasiness to me, as well as yourself,
 Sir. For the credit of an inn, you know Sir”—
 “To the point, if you please,” I interrupted him, being im
 patient to be gone.
 “It seems, Sir, you lost your purse, the miniature picture of a
 young lady, an opera-glass, and likewise your pocket-book.”
 “Your inventory of my loss is very exact, very accurate, in
 deed!”
 “All these articles,” resumed the innkeeper, “you will find
 faithfully restored; they lie this present moment upon the table
 in your apartment.”
 “Explain yourself l” I exclaimed; “trifle with my impatience
 no longer.”
 “The matter is even as I relate. It is hardly an hour ago
 since a stranger brought these things to my house.”
 “A stranger, do you say? He can be no stranger to you, I
 should suppose P"
 '
 “Who, then, do you imagine it to be, Sir?” demanded the
 innkeeper.
 ,
 “Who else,” I replied, “but the elderly gentleman, your for
 mer lodger?”
 The innkeeper shook his head; at the same instant he was
 called off to attend to some company. I hurried up stairs; every
 thing corresponded with the landlord’s relation. On the table
 lay my purse, the miniature-picture, opera-glass, and pocket
 book; I examined the latter, and found my notes safe and un
 touched. I stood petrified with amazement.
 That this was a fresh obligation conferred upon me by my
 unknown benefactor I had little room to doubt. “But how,”
 thought I; “by what means can he have been enabled to effect
 this restoration? Why anticipate, as it were, his own appointed
 time of meeting? Can he have entertained any ‘doubts of my
 punctuality in attending his assignation? or has he, perhaps,
 been compelled, by unavoidable unforeseen necessity, to accel
 erate his departure from Francfort?” The latter conjecture,
 whilst it appeared the most plausible, was likewise the most un
 pleasant, since it deprived me of all possibility of repaying the
 sum for which I stood indebted to the stranger's bounty, at the
 very time when the recovery of my own notes put this restitution
 in my power. However, as the stranger’s departure was not
 positively certain; as the whole of his character and conduct had
 been in the highest degree mysterious; as his disinterested benev
 olence, inflexible integrity, and unexampled philanthropy, ren
 dered it improbable that he should fail in his promise of meeting
 me, without the most cogent reasons, I determined to repair
 to the appointed place of rendezvous.
 “Did the bearer of the lost articles, which I have thus unex
350
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 pectedly regained, leave no message relative to the author, the
 place, the manner, of their recovery?” addressing myself to the
 innkeeper, in my way to the door.
 “None in the world,” replied the innkeeper; “he said neither
 more nor less than what I have already told you. ‘Here are the
 things which M. Cronheim has lost during his abode in your
 house ;’ and, without leaving me a moment’s time to question him
 further upon the subject, laid them down upon the table, and
 departed.”
 “Take care of this till my return,” said I, delivering the key
 of my apartment to the landlord; “my effects I have regained;
 for the future I leave them in your custody—from you I shall
 expect them.” The time of assignation drew near: I hurried
 away from the inn.
 The clock struck ten; I kept my post at the corner of Frederic
 Street. Dark was the night: loud and hollow roared the wind;
 not a star shone in the firmament; every distant sound, every
 approaching footstep, announced to my fond imagination the ar
 rival of my unknown benefactor. I ran to meet the coming pas
 senger, accosted every one that fell in my way, but found myself
 continually mistaken. Repeated disappointments served to con
 f
 irm me in the opinion which I had already formed on recovering
 my pocket-book, with the other articles of my loss, as above
 related. My generous friend, thought I, must have left Franc
 fort—must have been under a sudden indispensable necessity of
 traveling. I grew tired of waiting—the sound of the church-clock
 again saluted my ears; it was eleven, and the stranger had not
 yet made his appearance. Passengers were no longer heard at a
 distance; midnight, silence, impenetrable darkness, surrounded
 me; vexed and discontented, I sat out on my return to the inn.
 Hardly, however, had I advanced ten paces, before I fancied I
 heard somebody endeavoring to overtake me. “Stop, Sir,” ex
 claimed the well-known voice of my long-expected friend. I in
 stantly turned round, and ran to meet him.
 “Sorry am I,” began the courteous stranger, “to have detained
 you so long.”
 “Longer, Sir, would I have waited with pleasure, had I been
 certain of meeting you; had I not been apprehensive that you had
 left Francfort. I burn with impatience to see myself extricated
 from my doubts; to obtain your promised explanation relative to
 the mysterious adventures which I have lately experienced.”
 “That explanation you shall soon receive,” was the stranger’s
 reply: “Follow me.”
 '
 With long and hasty strides he now began to lead the way,
 displaying more activity than could have been expected from his
 years. I followed him; not a single word passed between us. We‘
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 351
 soon approached the city gates: these were in an instant thrown
 open by the guard, and now our way led across the suburbs.
 At the extremity stood a lonely antiquated house or castle, sur
 rounded with a high wall, and apparently in a very ruinous con
 dition. The stranger stopped short; three times he struck with
 his staff against the massy gates: hollow sounded his knocks
 through the solitary apartments. An old grey-headed porter gave
 us admittance. The stranger demanded a light; a lantern was
 brought: in mysterious silence he traversed the rooms, where
 desolation seemed to have taken up her abode; all was waste,
 empty, uninhabited; the old grey-headed porter excepted, I saw
 no signs of a single living animal. After passing through a long
 narrow passage, we came into a spacious garden, if a place over
 grown with briars and thorns may deserve that title. Here, how
 ever, the former picture of silent solitary desolation was quite
 reversed: bats and owls swarmed in every part, and filled the air
 with their doleful lamentable cries. A ruinous antique summer
 house, built of flint and granite, stood at the bottom; thither I
 followed my conductor.
 “Time and place,” began the latter, carefully re-locking the
 door the moment I had entered,—“time and place are here equally
 favorable for our purpose: explain the nature of your doubts, and
 those intricate events ‘concerning which you desire better infor
 mation.”
 I began with a brief relation of the extraordinary manner in
 which my pocket-book, notes, etc., had been restored to me, and
 was just proceeding to inquire whether my conductor was not the
 author of this fortunate discovery, when I was interrupted by
 the latter.
 “I am perfectly acquainted with the whole transaction; ask
 whatever question you please, but let it comprise the sum of all
 your wishes.”
 This command involved me in the utmost perplexity. How
 was it possible for me, in my present state of surprise, to‘con
 solidate, to concentrate, as it were, my desires instantaneously into
 one focus, into one object, one point?
 '
 The stranger perceived my embarrassment. “Ask, then,” he
 resumed, “who the friend is that interests himself so faithfully
 in your concerns.”
 “The very question,” I replied, “that I most devoutly wish to
 have resolved.”
 '
 “Well, then, you shall soon have an opportunity of seeing this
 friend—of being personally acquainted with him.”
 “Soon have an opportunity!” I repeated with astonishment.
 “Am I not acquainted with him already? Are not you, yourself,
 Sir, that friend, that generous benefactor?”
 “No !” replied the stranger, with a negative shake of his head:
352
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 “I am nothing more than his instrument; and that—here he
 paused a moment—and that only at the third hand.”
 At these words I regarded him with silentamazement. Of this
 the stranger seemed to take but little notice, but, drawing from his
 pocket a small box filled with red sand, began to scatter its con
 tents about the floor; then describing with his wand two circles,
 he placed me in one, whilst himself occupied the other, and, with
 his hands crossed upon his breast, and his eyes directed upwards,
 stood for a long time motionless like a statue.
 “What,” thought I to myself, “will be the end of these myste
 rious preparations?”
 The stranger still continued motionless, till a distant church
 clock announced the solemn hour of midnight. Hardly had the last
 stroke ceased to vibrate on our ears, when, suddenly turning
 himself round in his circle, he prgnounced, with an audible voice,
 at full length, the name of Eliza. I started with horror and
 astonishment. Instantly was heard a subterraneous noise, like
 the thunder under ground that forebodes an earthquake, or when
 it rattles with aggravated peals, re-echoing from the mountains.
 The stranger pronounced the name of Eliza the second time,
 and louder and more awful than before. A flash of lightning
 shot across the room, which shook with the roaring of the deep
 mouthed thunder.
 Louder, and still more dreadful, the stranger pronounced the
 name of Eliza the third time. A sudden trembling seized upon
 me—the whole summer-house seemed to be on fire—the ground
 gave way under my feet—I sunk down—the spirit of Eliza hov
 ered over me—my senses forsook me.
 A violent rocking gradually restored me to the use of my
 faculties. At first I fancied myself tossed to and fro by invisible
 hands, whilst a loud rattling noise invaded my ears. The jolting
 still increased. Presently, I perceived myself seated in a vehicle
 that rolled along with surprising velocity. Impenetrable dark
 ness surrounded me—it was impossible for me to distinguish
 a single object. I found myself terribly confined and straightened
 for want of room: somebdy sat at my right hand, but whether my
 companion belonged to the spiritual or corporeal race of beings,
 I was not sufficiently recovered from my surprise to determine.
 Meanwhile the carriage rolled along with increasing rapidity,
 but either the roads must have been extremely rugged and uneven,
 or my driver, being unacquainted with the country, was unable
 to select his way in the dark, for we encountered such terrible
 shocks from loose stones, the roots and broken branches of trees,
 etc., that I expected, every moment, to see the vehicle overset,
 and dashed in pieces. How long I continued in this miserable
 situation it is difficult to ascertain, as you may reasonably suppose
 that one hour's traveling in this mode might well seem longer
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 353
 than a journey from Leipzig to Dresden in a stage coach. At
 length a most tremendous shock put a period to our expedition:
 the charioteer drove fiercely over a prostrate mile-stone—off
 f
 lew one of the wheels—and down came the carriage in an instant.
 “Jesus! Maria!” exclaimed my companion; who, falling right
 upon me, pressed me with such true, unequivocal, and substantial
 weight, that, had I been capable of the least reflection, I might
 soon have satisfied my former doubts, whether my associate be
 longed to the immaterial or corporeal race of beings.
 Excruciating torments awakened me from the state of stupe
 faction in which I had lain several minutes. Rough voices re
 peatedly called out for help, and presently a countryman, with a
 lantern, ran to our assistance. On opening my eyes, I perceived
 two men standing over me, each holding a horse apparently just
 unharnessed from the broken carriage. They attempted to lift
 me up; my agonies increased—I found myself unable to stand,
 and entreated them, for God’s sake, to let me lie. A second at
 tempt was made to raise me on my feet; in vain—it appeared that
 my thigh was broken. No sooner was this discovery made, than
 the two men swung themselves upon their horses, and, promising
 to procure assistance in the first town or village they should meet,
 galloped off at full speed, leaving me to the care of the peasant,
 who kindly did all in his power to comfort and encourage me.
 The night was piercing cold, which greatly added to the poig
 nancy of my torments. A whole hour elapsed—no help made its
 appearance—the men with the horses seemed to be in no hurry to
 return. At length the distant rattling of a carriage was heard:
 the countryman with his lantern ran to meet it; it proved to be a
 coach and four.
 “Stop, for the love of Christ!” he exclaimed, and briefly related
 the disaster which had just befallen me. A middle-aged gentle
 man sprang out, and, with the assistance of the countryman and
 his own attendants, conveyed me to the carriage, where having
 seated me as conveniently as circumstances would admit, he gave
 orders to drive as gently as possible.
 Hardly had the morning began to dawn, when we entered a
 populous village on the estate of Baron von Kampenhausen: such
 was the gentleman’s name who afforded me protection in my
 present calamity. I was immediately conveyed to the manor
 house. A servant, despatched for that purpose, soon returned
 with a surgeon; the necessary operations were performed, after
 which I was put to bed. My kind and noble benefactor paid me
 all possible attention, sat hours together by my bed-side, and, as
 soon as I was sufficiently recovered to enter into conversation,
 entertained me alternately with his discourse, and reading ex
 tracts from the best French and German authors.
 At the expiration of nine weeks I was able to lay my crutches
|
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 354
 aside, and, taking an affectionate leave of Baron von Kampen
 hausen, returned to Francfort. My sudden disappearance from
 that place had greatly alarmed the landlord of the inn where I
 lodged; who, having made many fruitless inquiries after me, gave
 me entirely up for lost. Great, therefore, was his surprise at my
 unexpected return, after so long an absence. Hardly would he
 credit his own eyes, when I first made my appearance, but, cross
 ing himself, and adjuring me in the name of Father, Son, and
 Holy Ghost, began the usual preamble which, from time immem
 orial, has been deemed an infallible charm against hobgoblins of
 every description. However, after I had with some difficulty
 satisfied him that it was no apparition, but a bona fide flesh-and
 bone inhabitant of this terraqueous globe, I received my effects
 at his hands, and, the day following, set out from Francfort, on
 my way to Switzerland.
 Here ended Cronheim his wonderful narrative, and, anxiously
 fixing his eyes on Herrman, seemed at once to wish, and yet
 dread, to hear the judgment which his friend would pass upon it.
 After a short pause, “Marvellous,” began Herrman, “is the re
 lation I have just heard—marvellous to such a degree, that had I
 not myself experienced adventures of a similar, or even more
 wonderful nature, and which probably may be more intimately
 connected with your own history than you would at first imagine,
 I must candidly acknowledge I should be apt to call the authenticity
 of your narrative into question.”
 Cronheim, who fully expected to find, not only a severe critic,
 but an incredulous hearer, in the person of his friend, was all im
 patience to be made acquainted with the wonders which Herrman
 had announced;but the latter, observing that the night was already
 far spent, and that, as he was only a partial actor in the drama,
 it would be necessary for him to consult some papers in which
 the history was continued and brought to its catastrophe, begged
 leave to postpone his relation till the following day, to which
 demand Cronheim readily acquiesced.
 Aurora, with rosy fingers unlocking the chrystal gates of light,
 ushered in the sprightly morn. Clear and unclouded shone the
 sky, hushed was the storm, the weather appeared the very reverse
 of what it had been the preceding day. Cronheim, notwithstand
 ing, manifested no inclination for the chase; but, at breakfast,
 took occasion to remind his friend of last night's promise, and
 anxiously inquired whether he had found the papers to which he
 then alluded.
 Herrman replied in the affirmative, and at the same time gave
 him to understand that, on account of the immoderate length of
 his history his design was to relate at present only as far as him
 self had been an acting person in the drama. The remainder,
 which formed by far the greatest part of his history, he promised
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 355
 to deliver to him in writing, but not before the time fixed for his
 departure; lest, he added, ghosts and necromancers should so en
 tirely engross their thoughts, as to leave no time for the more
 rational solaces _of friendship.
 Cronheim declared himself satisfied with this proposal, and
 Herman, as soon as he had reloaded his pipe, began his promised
 narrative, to the following effect:
 Soon after our separation on leaving Gottingen, I engaged
 myself as private tutor to the young Count von Einsidel, a noble
 man not less distinguished by his virtues than by his illustrious
 descent, with whom I traveled through the greatest part of Eu
 rope. Our tour lasted three years, and, though it may be sup
 posed that, in the course of so long a journey, in which, like
 Ulysses, we had occasion to see—
 “Mores hominum multorum et urbes,”*
 we could not fail of meeting with many extraordinary adven
 tures: the most wonderful as well as the most dangerous of all
 seems to have been reserved for our return to Germany from
 Switzerland.
 We had already nearly cleared the Black Forest1', when, on a
 sudden, the sky became overcast, the rain poured down in tor
 rents, and the livid flashes of lightning, bursting right over our
 heads, succeeded one another with such rapidity, that the thunder,
 reechoing from the woods, the rocks, and mountains, seemed but
 one continued peal. To add to our distress, night now began to
 approach: not such a night as tender lovers choose to wander in
 by the moon’s pale lamp, and breathe their amorous vows—but
 rather a night, such as poets have conceived, when Lapland
 witches charm the laboring moon, and bring her down to earth,
 whilst darkness, with her raven wings outspread, hovering be
 neath the fair expanse of heaven, forbids the starry host their
 mild effulgence to diffuse, and cheer the traveler with their silver
 light.
 We had not traveled many miles in this dismal condition, be
 fore our postillion had the misfortunate to lose his way; and, what
 still aggravated our calamity, he did not perceive his mistake till
 it was already too late to rectify it. I shall not attempt to describe
 the gloomy apprehensions which filled our minds on his com
 municating to us this unwelcome intelligence. Our postillion was
 naturally a lad of humor, and, agreeably to the laudable practice
 of his profession, had entertained us all day with a recital of
 the numberless murders, robberies, rapes, etc., which had been
 * Through many kingdoms, many towns he strayed
 And foreign customs, laws, and manners, weighe .
 'l'This immense forest is situated in Swabia, and is by far the largest in all Ger
 many; known to the ancients by the name of Sylva Hercynia. Caesar gives a description
 of it in his Commentaries, where he affirrns it to be nine days’ journey in breadth, and
 three score in length.
 '
THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 356
 perpetrated in this immense forest. We had likewise, in many
 instances, received ocular demonstrations of the truth of his re
 ports from the numberless crosses which in this country are
 erected on the spot where any murder has been committed, partly
 with a view to put travelers upon their guard, and partly to en
 treat their prayers for the rest of the souls of the defunct. Hardly
 an hour passed without our meeting one or more of these crosses,
 with the following inscription:
 1
 NEAR THIS PLACE WAS MURDERED
 N. N.
 ALL GOOD CHRISTIANS PRAY FOR
 HIS SOUL.
 As we wished for nothing more ardently than to extricate
 ourselves from this dismal situation as soon as possible (being
 not less in purgatory ourselves than the souls of those for whom
 our prayers were desired), we ordered the postillion to lose no
 time in fruitless attempts to regain the right road to the town we
 had originally designed to put up at, but rather to drive straight
 forward with the utmost expedition, till we should have the good
 fortune to light on some human habitation, where we might pass
 the remainder of the night in safety. With this request our Jehu
 willingly complied, and, after exercising his whip for a full hour
 with all the fury of his illustrious predecessor of that name, we
 found ourselves emerging from our worse than Cimmerian for
 est, upon the entrance of a large plain or common.
 “Blessed Virgin-mother of God!” exclaimed the postillion,
 with a degree of ecstacy not to be conceived, “we are at last in
 open country, and, if I am not mistaken, my Lord, at no great
 distance from a village.”
 The music of the spheres could not have sounded more delight
 ful and harmonious to the count and myself than this intelligence
 from our postillion: nor was it long before his conjectures were
 confirmed by a hideous howl which half a score of dogs set up
 on our nearer approach.
 Great was our joy at beholding once more the peaceful abodes
 of man. The village we found to be of considerable extent, but
 the inn, if such it may be called, was one of the most execrable
 that ever I set foot in in the whole course of my life. “Bene
 dicite!” exclaimed the landlord, all antonishment at seeing a post
 chase draw up before his door-a phenomenon which caused him
 to stare as much as if the Grank Turk in person had come to pay
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 357
 him a visit. It was no wonder, therefore, if the bill of fare of the
 house contained nothing more than a few smoked sausages, some
 rusty bacon, and a stale loaf of brown bread. Wine or beer, he
 assured us, was not to be had in the whole neighborhood; and
 such was the goodness of his brandy, that even our postillion was
 glad to wash his mouth after swallowing a glass of it.
 I inquired whether the lord of the manor resided on his estate,
 hoping to meet with better accommodation from the hospitality
 of a stranger; but received for answer, that the manor-house was
 entirely waste and uninhabited, nobody having been able to live
 in it for this century past, and upwards: I demanded the reason.
 “Why, as to matter of that, look ye, gentlemen,” replied the
 landlord, “it is an affair which nobody much cares to speak about
 neithe'r dare I, on any account, give you any item of the business
 tonight; but wait,” he added, “till to-morrow morning, and then,
 if you are not able to divine the cause yourselves, why I will even
 let you into particulars.”
 As little satisfied with this reply as myself, the count pressed
 the landlord to be more explicit, and even insisted on having a
 categorical answer to the question I had put: but our landlord was
 not to be prevailed upon ; he continued shaking his head as sturdy
 as a mule, and, when he found that we would not desist from our
 inquiries, left the room with evident signs of displeasure, grum
 bling something about unlawful curiosity and divine judgments,
 with other obscure hints, which to us were quite unintelligible.
 Vexed as we were at what we considered a most unpardon
 able instance of rudeness, we were fain to make the best of our
 present circumstances, and to digest our coarse unsavory fare as
 well as we could. Indeed, the black Spartan broth of Leonidas
 would have been a downright luxury, compared to the miserable
 entertainment we partook of on this occasion; but experience
 verified the old proverb, that “hunger is the best sauce.”
 .
 After we had finished our homely repast, and somewhat ap
 peased the cravings of nature, we laid ourselves down upon some
 clean fresh straw, which here supplied the place of a bed to our
 weary limbs. The count was presently buried in a profound
 sleep; whilst I kept turning from side to side, and, harrassed by
 a thousand unaccountable apprehensions, found it impossible to
 close my eyes. In this state of uneasiness I continued till the
 watchman, with hoarse voice, announced the solemn hour of mid
 night. My ears were instantaneously alarmed with the distant
 sound of horses’ hoofs, and the echoing thunder of trumpets,
 horns, and other wind instruments. The noise drew near, and
 presently a whole troop of horse seemed to pass in full gallop
 by the window, the air at the same time resounding with such a
 full band of music, that, had it not been for the unseasonable
 hour, added to the disagreeableness of the night, I should have
 _
358
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 imagined his Serene Highness the Elector, with his whole court
 and retinue, had marched through the place on a royal hunting
 party. The count awoke with the noise, and, abruptly starting
 110
 “What can be the meaning of all this?” he demanded, with a
 mixture of fear and astonishment.
 To this question I was as little able to give satisfactory answer
 as himself. I continued, therefore, to listen with the greatest at
 tention to what was transacting, and perceived, to my no small
 surprise, that these nocturnal Nimrods had hardly passed our inn,
 before the noise of their horses and instruments died away, and
 the whole place was as silent as before. This appeared to me ex
 ceedingly singular. I began afresh to give free scope to the
 workings of a disturbed imagination, and, comparing in my mind
 the strange scene I had just witnessed with the unaccountable
 reserve and dark innuendos of our landlord, I attempted to un
 ravel the mystery that seemed to envelop this adventure. As for
 the count, he soon relapsed into a profound slumber, and snored
 away as heartily as ever.
 Setting aside the inclemency of the weather, it appeared to me
 very improbable that any person should ride out on a hunting
 party at midnight. This reflection induced me for some time to
 regard the noise I had heard as the consequence of my having
 dreamed to that effect: but when I took into serious consideration
 the behavior of our landlord, and the sudden awaking of the count,
 I found myself greatly staggered, and cannot deny but a secret
 horror invaded my whole frame.
 Lost and bewildered in a painful labyrinth of conjecture and
 doubt, I insensibly grew weary of the strife between contending
 opinions. A gentle slumber, the welcome forerunner of the somnif
 erous deity, had already closed my eyelids, when I was roused
 from my lethargy by the hoarse cry of the watchman, who, with
 the whole collected force of his lungs, gave notice that the clock
 had just gone one in the morning. His voice, however, though
 powerful enough to entitle him a second Boanerges, was soon
 drowned by the return of the same alarming noise I had before
 heard. I immediately arose, and, hastening to the window, which
 shook with the echoing thunder of horns, trumpets, etc., resolved
 to satisfy my curiosity relative to this nocturnal troop of Nim
 rods by ocular demonstration; but, before I had time to throw the
 window open, the whole squadron had passed the house in full
 gallop, with a noise equal to the loudest whirlwind, and a few
 minutes after the former silence succeeded, and all was quiet as
 the grave.
I was now fain to banish all further thoughts of sleep, for the
 present night at least, and, not able to wait till breakfast, at which
 time the landlord had promised to satisfy our inquiries relative to
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 359
 the uninhabited mansion, I ran to the window the moment I heard
 the watchman begin to cry two o’clock.
 “Friend,” I accostedhim, “what can be the meaning of the
 noise and racket that alarmed our ears at the hours of twelve
 and one?”
 “Why, truly,” was his answer, “your honor must certainly be
 a stranger in this neighborhood. There is not a child in the vil
 lage but knows all about it. We have this noise, as you call it,
 every night for weeks together: after that, we are quiet again for
 a season.”
 “Well, but,” I replied, “what whimsical gentleman is it that
 hunts at midnight?”
 _
 “Nay, that, indeed, I am not at liberty to tell you; inquire of
 your landlord, who can inform you of every particular. For my
 part, I am only doing my duty, and my trust is in God. But not a
 syllable of what I see and hear will I betray to any living soul;
 nor should the king's ransom tempt me to it.” And with that the
 watchman took himself off.
 I wrapped myself up in my great coat, and, drawing a chair
 to the window, awaited, with anxious impatience, the tardy return
 of day. At length the morning began to dawn; the whole village
 reechoed with the crowing of cocks, which, I may truly say,
 never sounded more grateful in my ears. The count at the same
 time awaking, and seeing me already dressed :—
 “Why, you are up by times, to-day, Sir," he began, rubbing
 his eyes. “Pray tell me what noise that was which disturbed us
 last night?"
 “Indeed, my Lord,” I replied, “my curiosity in this respect
 is at least equal to your own ; and hardly can I wait till we receive
 the promised information from our landlord. And,” added I,
 “if your lordship had not slept so soundly, you would have heard
 the troop gallop past us at one in the morning with the same
 dreadful impetuosity and noise as they, did at twelve.”
 The sound of horses’ hoofs in the yard put a stop to our con
 versation. I ran to the window, and saw an officer with his serv
 ant alight before the inn door. They presently joined us, and
 having, like ourselves, had the misfortune to be benighted and
 lose their way, our acquaintance was soon formed. The officer
 was a spirited young fellow, about three and twenty, wore Danish
 uniform, and had, it seems, been sent upon a recruiting-party.
 The count related our last night’s‘adventure, which the lieutenant
 for some time regarded as a mere joke. But, upon my positive
 assurance that what he had just heard was a real fact, he testified
 a strong desire to be better acquainted with the midnight hunters.
 “That honor you may easily have,” replied the baron; “only
 pass the night here, and we will bear you company.”
 “Done !" cried the lieutenant; “I hold you to your word, and
360
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 who knows but our hunting gentry may be civil enough to admit
 us of their party. In that case,” added he, laughing, “we come in
 for our share of a haunch of venison.”
 Hardly had he pronounced these words when the landlord
 made his appearance—“Well, gentlemen,” he began (after pre
 viously bidding us good morrow), “did your honors hear any
 thing extraordinary last night?”
 “But too much!” was my reply; “however, pray inform me
 who, and whatkind of hunters, they are that seem so fond of ex
 ercising their sport at midnight?”
 “Why, yes, to be sure,” resumed the landlord, “these are mat
 ters, as I said before, which one don't much care to talk about. I
 was unwilling to satisfy your inquiries yesterday, lest your in
 credulous curiosity should precipitate you into mischief, which,
 God above knows, has been the case with many; however, as I
 promised to give you a relation of the whole affair this morning,
 you shall find me as good as my word.
 “Here, at the bottom of the village, stands a large house, which
 formerly was the residence of the lord of the manor. Now, you
 must know, it so happened that, a great many years back, one of
 these lords was a terribly wicked man, who cared neither for God
 nor devil, and treated his subjects worse than his cattle. Nobody
 could do anything to please him. Even his own children he would
 bang and kick about like dogs, and, for the least trifle, order them
 to be thrown into a dark filthy hole or dungeon, where they were
 at last starved to death. His subjects he never called by any other
 name than his beasts, and as such he treated them. In short, he
 was a true devil incarnate!
 “Now, this wicked man delighted in nothing so much as in
 hunting. In his woods he harbored all kinds of game, even the
 most savage—wild boars especially—which made terrible havoc
 and ruination in the fields and gardens of his peasants: and yet,
 if any of the latter only offered to drive away one of those
 furious animals, that was, perhaps, treading down his corn or de
 vouring his turnips, he was sure to be confined for weeks to
 gether upon bread and water.
 “Whenever this nobleman thought proper to go a-hunting,
 the whole village was obliged to draw out and accompany him;
 and on these occasions he would make them supply the place of
 dogs, and set them upon the game, which whenever they were not
 able to catch, he would horsewhip and worry them with his hounds
 till they fell down dead at his feet.
 “One time, as he was indulging in these cruel practices till late
 at night, he was thrown from his horse, and broke his neck upon
 the spot. The clergy would not suffer him to be interred in the
 church-yard like a Christian, for which reason he was buried in
 a corner of his park. But now the terrible judgments of divine
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 361
 vengeance became manifest; for to the present day his wretched
 soul is not suffered to rest. At certain stated times and seasons
 the wrath of Almighty God obliges him every night, the moment
 it strikes twelve, to ride through the village, and, with Beelzebub
 and his hellish train, to drive into the manor-house, where he is
 fain to stay till one o’clock in the morning, which no sooner is
 heard to strike, than the whole infernal troop of them are re
 manded back to the bottomless pit.
 “Since his death the manor-house has always been untenant
 ,
 able. Many who have foolishly attempted to sleep in it have paid
 for their temerity with their lives. Nay, I know it to be a fact,
 that several who have slept in my house, and who, on hearing the
 noise of his approach, have been daring enough to look out at
 window, have been punished with a swelled face, or even a partic
 ular cast in their eye, if not with a total deprivation of sight, for
 their rash curiosity.”
 ‘
 With these words our landlord concluded his long-winded
 harangue ; and, wistfully eyeing us all round, regaled his delighted
 optics with the astonishment portrayed in our countenances. His
 pleasure was, however, of short duration; the lieutenant instantly
 bursting out into a loud fit of laughter, for which, from the silence
 he observed during the landlord’s narration, he seemed to have
 purposely reserved the whole collected force of his lungs.
 “Nay, Sir, you may laugh as you please,” replied the latter,
 with no small degree of impatience; “but I’ll venture to lay the
 last farthing I’m worth in the world, that you laugh on the other
 side of your mouth by to-morrow morning, provided you have
 heart sufficient to stay here over night.”
 “That you shall soon see,” was the lieutenant’s reply; “not
 only here, my good friend, but in the very castle itself : and, were
 it haunted with a whole legion of devils—were it the very palace
 and pandemonium of Beelzebub,—,will I pass the ensuing night.
 These gentlemen, I make no doubt,” addressing his discourse to
 the count and myself, “will gladly favor me with their com
 pany.”
 My young nobleman was a man of honor. Not to accept this
 challenge would have appeared to him an indelible stain upon his
 character. His assent, therefore, was quickly given; For my
 part, I started a thousand objections, and, representing to the
 lieutenant the danger we might expose ourselves to, uncertain as
 we were what kind of spirits we should have to deal with, left
 no argument untried to dissuade him from his project: but the
 lieutenant, cutting me short,—
 '
 “I am a soldier, and wear a sword; and for gentlemen of our
 profession, ghosts of every description, both with bodies and
 without, have always the most prodigious respect!”
 In short, I plainly saw that, by pretending to assert my magis
362
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 terial authority over the count, I should only render myself
 ridiculous without effecting my purpose; for so resolutely bent
 was he upon accompanying the lieutenant at all events, that I am
 convinced he would have gone without me, had I persisted in my
 refusal. Forced, therefore, however reluctantly, to comply; I at
 length gave way to their entreaties; for to desert my pupil would
 have appeared to me an unpardonable breach of trust.
 But how shall I describe the behavior of our landlord when
 he found us fully determined upon this adventure! His aston
 ishment exceeded all conception, and, with uplifted eyes and
 hands, he conjured us, in the name of the ever blessed Virgin
 Mary, and all the holy saints, to desist from so rash an enterprise.
 “I’ll answer for it with my head,” was his repeated declaration,
 “that not one of you will live to see the light of another day.”
 The lieutenant, however, turning all his pious remonstrances
 into ridicule, soon worked upon the irritability of his temper to
 that degree, that he left us to our fate, grumbling some hearty
 curses as he hurried out of the room.
 Our conversation, as may easily be imagined, turned more upon
 spiritual than political subjects; when, after having pretty well
 exhausted our stock of ghostly knowledge, the lieutenant pro
 posed a walk to the haunted castle, very judiciously observing,
 that it might not, perhaps, be altogether amiss to take a nearer
 view, by daylight, of those formidable premises which we had
 f
 ixed upon for our nocturnal rendezvous. This proposal meet
 ing with universal approbation, we hurried to put it into immedi
 ate execution.
 An enormous pile of building in the Gothic taste, but terribly
 ruined and demolished, presented itself to our eyes. The castle
 was surrounded with a high wall, besides a wide and deep ditch
 in front, over which a drawbridge afforded us an easy passage.
 We had no occasion to stand knocking at the gate, for thrown, as
 it was, wide open, a troop of horse might have entered it in full
 gallop. The appearance of the place had something wonderfully
 awful and romantic. We drew, as with one common consent,
 ourhangers, the moment we set foot in the hall. The pavement
 was of brick, but overgrown with weeds and moldering grass.
 From thence we continued our way through a flight of empty
 desolate apartments, where spiders, rats, and owls, appeared to
 be the only tenants. Windows covered with dirt, with cobwebs,
 and even moss itself, afiorded no other light than what found ad
 mission through the broken panes of glass: just sufficient to dis
 cover to our view the moldering remains of several ancient pieces
 of furniture; broken tables; chairs without backs; part of the
 iron-work of a large lamp, suspended, by a chain of the same
 metal from the ceiling of one of the rooms; with two or three
 _rickety benches, that seemed ready to fall to pieces under the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 363
 touch: these were the sole signs of the place ever having been
 inhabited by man.
 Curiosity now prompted us to take a view of the subterraneous
 apartments of this antique building. Previous to our setting out
 on this expedition, we had the precaution to provide ourselves
 with a lantern and the necessary apparatus for procuring fire,
 which we now found exceedingly serviceable. A stone staircase,
 at the further extremity of the hall, conducted us to a long, nar
 row, winding passage, arched over with brick-work, and termi
 nating in a door cased over with iron. The lieutenant still lead
 ing the way, with his lantern in one hand, and his drawn sword
 in the other, boldly advanced towards the door, which, yielding
 to his push, discovered a large vaulted place, resembling a cellar,
 but entirely empty, waste, and darker than the shades of mid
 night. A tainted air, impregnated with baneful vapors and pes
 tilential dews, almost deprived us of the faculty of breathing,
 when first we set foot in this subterraneous dungeon. On each
 side, facing the entrance, we perceived a pair of folding doors,
 secured with enormous bolts and a prodigious portcullis of massy
 iron. In vain was it for us to attempt further entrance. We
 hastened therefore from this loathsome scene back to the hall,
 where, like fishes restored to their native element, we felt our
 hearts expand on once more breathing fresh air.
 As this appeared to us the most eligible place for passing the
 night, and giving our ghostly friends the meeting, in case they
 should think proper to pay usa visit, we endeavored to fit it up
 for their reception and our own as conveniently as possible. For
 this purpose, with the help of some rusty nails and detached pieces
 of wood, which we found in abundance in the solitary apart
 ments, we at length contrived to make one of the old broken
 tables stand pretty decently upon its legs. We next essayed our
 ingenuity upon a couple of the rickety benches, which were like
 wise, with much trouble, put in a condition that promised to se
 cure us from all danger of their breaking down under us.
 Not yet satisfied, however, with the discoveries we had made,
 we wandered once more through the spacious untenanted apart
 ments of the castle, but every where could meet with nothing but
 moldering monuments of ruin and decay. The garden was the
 next place that curiosity prompted us to visit. Melancholy, in
 deed, was the prospect that here presented itself.—Here was
 literally a place for dragons, for beasts and birds obscene, and
 for every thing that is filthy and abominable. Overgrown as it
 was with thorns and briers, with thistles, weeds, nettles, and long
 grass that whistled in the wind, our feet were not seldom en
 tangled in the mazy labyrinth, whilst our hangers were fain to
 open us a passage, which the spreading branches, indissolubly
 twisted and interwoven with each other, seemed unwilling to
364
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 afford us. Thus we continued our toilsome march through a
 long winding alley, formed of a double row of beech-trees, that
 led to the extremity of the garden, at the upper end of which
 we discovered, emerging from the confused mass of briers,
 thorns, etc., that surrounded and almost concealed it from our
 view, a black marble urn, supported by a column of red porphyry.
 The workmanship was truly exquisite, but our eyes searched in
 vain for any inscription; and already were we proceeding on our
 return, when the count’s foot stumbled against some hard body,
 buried among the weeds, at no great distance from the urn: on
 inspection, it proved to be a wooden cross, on which the follow
 ing words were barely legible:
 mc JACET
 GODOFREDUS HAUSSINGERUS,
 PECCATOR.
 The date, if I mistake not, was 1603.
 After gazing on each other for some time in silent astonish
 ment, “What, gentlemen,” demanded the lieutenant, “is your
 opinion of this curious epitaph?”
 “For my part,” replied the count hastily, “I consider it as a con
 vincing evidence of the truth of our landlord’s narration.”
 Fatigued as we already were with the arduous task of opening
 to ourselves a passage with our hangers through the mazy wind
 ings and intricate labyrinths of this desolated place (for garden
 it certainly could no longer be called, with any propriety), we
 felt. little inclination to extend our painful researches to its re
 moter parts, but hurried back to the main hall, where meeting with
 no fresh objects to excite our curiosity, we set out on our return
 to the inn.
 Our landlord, from whom we had cautiously concealed our
 projected visit to the castle, was, on our return, almost petrified
 with horror and astonishment at our ‘bold, and, as he called it,
 astonishing presumption. At the same time, conceiving it his
 duty to deter us, if possible, from rushing on certain and imme
 diate destruction, lest our blood, he observed, might peradventure
 fall upon him, he fairly washed his hands of us, giving us the
 second edition of his morning lecture, enriched with various ad
 ditions, emendations, and improvements. But, alas! his pious in
 tentions met with no better success than before. The lieutenant,
 indulging his natural propensity for satire, soon rallied him out
 of all temper; wherefore, giving us up for a precious triumvirate
 of stiffnecked incorrigible blockheads, he only requested of us to
 settle the reckoning before our departure; and, wishing us that
 success which he dared not to hope, took his leave of us as of
 persons no longer designed for this world.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS _
 365
 It was between nine and ten at night that we sallied from the
 inn, all three well armed with a hanger and a couple of pistols per‘
 man; excepting the lieutenant’s servant, who, though he carried
 f
 ire-arms (being provided with a lantern), acted chiefly in the
 capacity of sutler to the troop. Heroes in all ages have ever
 found an empty stomach a great drawback upon valour, for which
 reason, the liteutenant, who understood the whole art of war,
 both theory and practice, as well as Caesar or Alexander the Great,
 and very sagaciously reflected that, in a place where ghosts were
 supposed to inhabit, little store of belly timber was to be ex
 pected, took care to clap a basket with a couple of roast fowls
 and three or four bottles of wine upon his servant’s shoulders,
 and, thus equipped at all points, we began our march.
 On our arrival at the appointed place of redezvous, we found
 every thing exactly in the same order as we had left it. Table
 and benches were still standing as firm as ever; we took our seats,
 and, encouraged by the lieutenant’s example, ate as heartily as
 any pious Catholic may be supposed to do previously to a seven
 weeks’ lent, not forgetting to do justice to the wine, which cir
 culated briskly enough. This time, however, good cheer was
 found to fail of the desired effect; for, instead of inspiriting our
 drooping valour, it acted rather like a leaden weight upon our
 eyelids, which with difficulty were kept from closing, although the
 clock had not yet struck eleven. The intermediate space between
 this and the canonical hour of meeting our ghostly friends we en
 deavored to beguile by reading “Hagedorn’s Poems,” of which I
 fortunately happened to have a copy with me. In this office I
 was alternately assisted by the count and the lieutenant, till the
 latter, on examining his watch, and finding it within a quarter of
 twelve, closed the book, and, briskly running up stairs to a front
 room in the first floor, took his stand facing the window, which
 commanded as fair a view of the forecourt, and the circumjacent
 plain, as a dark unfriendly night would admit. The count and
 myself followed his example, and in this posture we awaited the
 scenes that were to follow, leaving the lieutenant’s servant fast
 asleep in the hall.
 At length the ominous hour began to strike,—more awful, in
 our present circumstances, than the funeral knell of some de
 parted friend. Dreadful was the midnight silence that reigned
 around us. The very pulse of nature seemed suspended ; even the
 faculty of breathing was almost taken from us. And now the
 last stroke ceased to vibrate on our ears. Instantly, shook the
 whole fabric with the sound of horns, trumpets, etc., that seemed
 to rend the echoing air; whilst the dashing of horses’ hoofs made
 the solid ground tremble as with an earthquake: the rams’ horns
 of Jericho were mere pop-guns—the downfall of its walls a mere
 crash, compared with the dreadful thunder that now assailed our
366
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 ears. Impenetrable darkness, however, added to the velocity of
 their course, prevented us from gratifying our curiosity, and dis
 tinguishing the authors of all this wild and terrible uproar.
 Swift as the winged whirlwind, and with equal impetuosity,
 advanced the sable troop. Three times they made the circuit of
 the walls; then, suddenly halting, drew up at no great distance
 from the castle, facing the drawbridge. In an instant died away
 the noise, like the doubtful blast still quivering on the trees, “when
 the rude storm has blown its fill.” Silence resumed her wonted
 empire; but not the less impossible was it for us to discover
 either horse or rider.
 Whilst we stood bewildered in thought, and forming conjec
 tures on the scene we had just witnessed, a more immediate sub
 ject of alarm presented itself in the court. The rattling of spurs;
 the sound of footsteps, whether human or not, was uncertain;
 and a confused noise, as from a multitude passing and repassing,
 gave us reason to apprehend that the troop had dismounted, and
 were preparing to pay us a visit. Involuntary horror seized upon
 me: a cold sweat overran my whole frame; my knees tottered: I
 feared, I trembled, I knew not why. This noise, however, was of
 short duration; for, like the former, it gradually died away, and
 was succeeded by gloomy and profound silence.
 “Shall we rush into the court? shall we seek to join them?”
 demanded the lieutenant with his usual firmness and intrepidity.
 I shook my head by way of reply; the count did the same.
 “Then am I like to go alone, it seems l” returned the fiery
 youth, and immediately sallied down stairs, holding a pistol on
 full cock in each hand, and his drawn sword under his left arm.
 He was not long before he joined us again.
 “There must be some mystery in all this,” he exclaimed; “not
 the smallest trace of either horse or rider to be found !”
 No answer on our part sufficiently showed that we were
 equally at a loss to account for so strange and singular an adven
 ture. The lieutenant seated himself, and, with his eyes fixed im
 movably upon the ground, seemed lost in a deep reverie: the count
 endeavored to banish more unwelcome ideas with reading; whilst
 I, giving way to the calls of nature, soon lay buried in a pro
 found sleep.
 The report of a pistol awakened me; I started up incontinently.
 The sound of horns and trumpets again saluted my ears, but
 presently the noise died away as before. At the same instant the
 lieutenant and the count entered the room. They had, it seems,
 like myself, been overpowered with sleep, from which they were
 roused by the return of the uproar in the court, that had so greatly
 alarmed us at twelve. Eager, therefore, to discover the authors,
 they had sallied out with their pistols. They met, however, with
 little success: the whole troop was off before they reached the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 367
 court. The lieutenant, dashing one of the panes of the hall win
 dow in pieces with his pistol, sent a bullet after them; but, some
 white horses excepted, could discover nothing through the im
 penetrable gloom that surrounded t‘hem.
 “Ghosts or not,” he concluded his narration, “they seem to
 stand in great awe of us; and, for the present, my advice is, that
 we rather spend the remainder of the night upon some clean straw
 in the inn, than continue here upon rotten benches of wood, which
 we hardly dare trust with our weight.”
 This proposal was gladly accepted, and away we trudged to
 the inn, greatly to the satisfaction of John, the lieutenant’s groom,
 who, it seems, took little delight in hunting after ghosts.
 Long had we to stand knocking at the inn-door before entrance
 was granted. At length our landlord in person made his appear
 ance.
 “What! and are your honors still alive?” he began with flut
 tering voice, crossing himself all the time: “or rather are ye come
 from purgatory, to upbraid me with your destruction? Holy
 Father Romboldus! and all ye blessed saints, defend me; and
 witness for me, how much I tried to dissuade them from their
 impious undertaking!” With these words he banged the door
 without any further ceremony right in our face.
 Vexed as we were with this inhospitable reception, we could
 not refrain from laughing, and that heartily, at the superstitious
 fears and ludicrous grimaces of our landlord: till the lieutenant,
 out of all patience (for the night was none of the warmest),
 resolved to stand kicking his heels no longer. Thundering, there
 fore, at the door, as though he designed to pull the house down
 over the owner’s head, he swore by all the saints in Christendom,
 that he would reduce the place to ashes, and utterly annihilate
 every soul within it, unless immediate admittance was afforded
 us. This menace failed not of the desired effect; our Cerberus
 presently relented, and, with many awkward apologies begging
 pardon, for what in fact we had no right to be offended at, spread
 some clean straw upon the floor, and, wishing us a good repose,
 retired to his own apartment.
 On our getting up, which was not till nearly noon, the lieuten
 ant declared himself by no means satisfied with the result of last
 nights’ adventure; and, signifying to us his intention of keeping
 watch the ensuing night in the forecourt of the castle, concluded
 with desiring us to bear him company.
 The count’s eyes immediately reverted to me, seeming to ex
 pect from my reply that denial which he was unwilling to deliver
 himself. I accordingly represented to the lieutenant the impossi
 bility of our complying with his request ; that the nature of our
 affairs would not suffer us to throw away any more time than
 had been lost already; not to mention the danger of such an un
368
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 dertaking; f0ur_men being, at the best, but a sorry match against
 a whole troop of horse, as we had every reason, from the evidence
 of our own ears, to believe them.
 “As to the danger of the frolic,” replied the lieutenant, “if
 that’s your main objection, it is easily removed. We need only
 take a dozen stout rawboned fellows along with us. A few shill
 ings and a bottle of brandy (which, though not to be had here, may
 easily be procured from some neighboring town) will entitle us
 to pick and choose our gang from the whole village; and take my
 word for it, Sir, we shall have a frolic, the like of which was never
 seen. To-morrow morning, if you think proper to depart, you
 may depend upon my company as your fellow traveler.”
 The count was easily prevailed upon; neither, indeed, was the
 proposal displeasing to myself. The groom, therefore, was im
 mediately despatched to the next town to procure brandy, and
 other refreshments, whilst our postillion received commission to
 sound his horn*, as a signal. In a few minutes we had the whole
 village assembled before the door, when, silence being ordered,
 the lieutenant, from the superior eminence of a deal table, ad
 dressed his wondering congregation to the following effect:—
 “Brave, gallant, and aspiring heroes! such of you as have
 heart sufficient to offer your services to accompany us to the
 haunted castle, well known to all inhabitants of this village, there
 to remain, and spend the night with us, and in all respects to act
 obedient to the orders which you shall then and there receive;
 such, I say, as shall willingly offer their services for this purpose,
 and who, on inspection, shall be judged worthy of being em
 ployed in so glorious a cause, shall receive the sum of sixpence
 per man, over and above a plentiful supply of brandy and other
 necessary refreshments, to keep your noble hearts from faint
 ing.”
 Laughable was it to see the effects which this harangue pro
 duced. Not a man in the whole assembly but immediately offered
 his services with so much zeal, that we had reason to apprehend
 a premature exertion of their valor. To prevent, therefore, as
 much as in us lay, the effusion of human blood (for they seemed
 ready to go to blows for the preference), fifteen of the stoutest
 and most promising were drafted from this heroic corps, and the
 residue, in order to atone for their disappointment, were prom
 ised a proper reward, provided they demeaned themselves lov
 ingly and peaceably. Hereupon our troop received commission
 to attend us at the inn by ten o’clock precisely. As to the choice of
 their weapons, that was left to their own discretion.
 ' In Germany it is customary for the postillions to carry a small French horn with
 them which is certainly a more melodious instrument than that made use of by the
 guar s of the mail coach in this country. The Germans have a natural genius for music,
 many of these postillions are tolerable performers; and where the road, as is frequently
 tfltafi case, leads through large and extensive woods, this travelling concert has a wonder
 e ect.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 369
 Such vigorous preparations could not fail of exciting the ut
 most astonishment in our landlord, who, now regarding us as
 something more than human—as sorcerers and magicians at least,
 if not devils incarnate—seemed himself half willing to accom
 pany us, and assist in purging the haunted castle of the foul
 spirits that inhabited it.
 With the approach of evening, however, his courage began to
 cool; wherefore, pretending some urgent business, that rendered
 his presence at home indispensably necessary, he contented him
 self with wishing us success to our undertaking.
 Our brave troop, on the other hand, neglected not to attend
 their appointment with great punctuality; and formidable indeed
 was the appearance they made, armed with scythes, pickaxes,
 f
 lails, bludgeons, pitchforks, pruning-hooks, spades, and what
 ever weapons chance or fancy put into their hands. Having
 drawn ourselves up in battle-array before the inn-door, we be
 gan our march to the castle, headed by the lieutenant. In the rear
 followed our provision, camp equipage, and military stores; con
 sisting of brandy, cold roast beef, half a dozen peck loaves, to
 gether with some benches, which we borrowed from the tap-room;
 a large deal table, the same on which the lieutenant made his fa
 mous harangue, and lastly an iron lamp,, with the necessary ap
 paratus for procuring fire. These were conveyed in wheelbar
 rows, and in this gallant order we made our triumphant entry into
 the castle.
 The court having been marked out for the place of encamp
 ment, we pitched our tents between the gate and the drawbridge.
 A plentiful libation was then made to the god of brandy, whose
 nostrils must have been highly regaled with the grateful fumes
 of incense and burnt offerings, every hero replenishing his pipe
 with a potent supply of India’s salutary weed ; and, as our vic
 tory in this ghostly crusade, though unfought, was none the less
 certain hymns of triumph were sung beforehand on the occa
 sion.
 In proportion as the contents of the brandy-bottle diminished,
 the courage and musical disposition of our company increased.
 We had, therefore, no need, as on the preceding night, to read
 ourselves hoarse, in order to repulse the encroaching advances
 of sleep. The wonderful assistance which valor reaps from mili
 tary music—fifes, trumpets, drums, and kettle-drums, etc.—is
 too plain and obvious to stand in need of any comment or illus
 tration; otherwise, we might refer our readers to the history of
 the Lacedaemonians, who, after suffering repeated defeats from
 the Messenians, proved at length victorious,—not by their own
 inherent valor, or the merit and skill of their commanders, but
 by choosing the Athenian songster and poet, Tyrtaeus, for their
 general; although the said Tyrtaeus cut but a sorry figure for a
370
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 militia captain, inasmuch as he was blind of.one eye, lame, and,
 in fact, passed for little better than an idiot. If such, then, were
 the effects produced by one songster, in a whole army, what must
 we suppose to have been the case with our brave troop, consist
 ing, as it did, of vocal performers from first to last? To so high
 a pitch was their valor wound up, by the noble songs which they
 rehearsed, not forgetting to whet their whistle, as occasion re
 quired, with plentiful draughts of brandy, that they laughed at,
 challenged, and defied, the whole infernal host of hell, with
 Beelzebub, their leader, at the head!
 It was now within a few minutes of twelve. The lieutenant,
 pointing to his watch, beckoned with his hand: instantly the mili
 tary concert was suspended; awful silence succeeded in its place;
 expectation stood a tiptoe; and astonishment, mixed with horror,
 appeared visibly portrayed in every countenance. Thus we kept
 our post till the church-bell began to strike, at which our country
 boobies pricked up their ears, and, with gaping mouths, seemed
 to swallow the sound. But when they heard the distant dashing
 of horses’ hoofs, and the thundering echo of trumpets, that fol
 lowed immediately upon the last strokes, nothing can convey an
 adequate idea of their terror and surprise. They no longer dared
 to regard one another, except with stolen looks; and had'not fear
 effectually chained them to their seat, there is little room to doubt
 but a precipitate flight, on their part, would soon have deprived
 us of our worthy comrades and protectors.
 Meanwhile the noise, increasing as it approached, drew nearer
 and nearer, and presently was heard distinctly in the subterraneous
 apartments of the castle. Suddenly, however, it subsided: all
 was perfectly still and silent as before. But, in less than ten
 minutes, the uproar returned more powerful than ever; and,
 swift as lightning, though still invisible, retreated the ghostly
 cavalcade, in full gallop, from the castle.
 The lieutenant, followed by the count and myself, rushed out
 in pursuit of them. But though we flew, as it were, upon wings,
 being fully determined to gratify our curiosity, it was impossible
 for us to discover any other object than the distant glare of some
 white horses. We returned, therefore, hopeless and dissatisfied,
 to our companions.
 These we found, on our entrance into the court, stretched out
 like dead, with their faces to the ground. Table, lamp, benches,
 wheelbarrows,—in short, our whole camp-equipage, together with
 the brandy-bottle and provisions which we had brought with us,
 were gone. The moon, shining but dimly through the opposing
 clouds, barely reflected light sufficient to make this discovery.
 Great, as may reasonably be supposed, was our astonishment.
 The lieutenant, seizing one of our prostrate companions by the
 shoulders, gave him two or three hearty shakes, and endeavored
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 371
 to lift him on his legs; but this valiant champion, firmly persuaded
 that he was under the clutches of some blood-thirsty caco-daemon,
 who, in all probability, wanted to hurry him away, full drive, to
 the bottomless pit, began to roar out so lustily, that we had pres
 ently the whole troop at their prayers, each one imploring assist
 ance from his favorite saint. Sancta Mater and Kyrie Eleison,
 intermixed with groans unutterable, resounded from every quar
 ter. The scene was ludicrous beyond description, and fully jus
 tified the assertion of the Roman poet
 '
 Primus in orbe Deos fecit tirnor.
 After feasting our eyes and ears a full hour at least with the
 cowardly devotion of these miserable wretches, we adjourned to
 the inn, leaving our companions to celebrate high mass by them
 selves. Our landlord was not a little surprised at seeing us re
 turn unattended, and accosted us with at least a thousand ques
 tions; but as we stood in need of rest, we deferred satisfying his
 inquisitive curiosity till morning, and laid ourselves down upon
 the straw prepared for our reception.
 Our sleep, however, was not of long duration, for no sooner
 did it begin to dawn, than the whole village was in an uproar, and
 young and old assembled before the inn—door. Our gallant com
 panions, it seems, with the return of day, had gradually got the
 better of their fears, and, venturing at last to look around them,
 discovered, to their no small surprise, that we were missing.
 Whether their grief at our supposed destruction proceeded from
 any real regard, or from the fear of losing the promised gratuity
 for their faithful services, they immediately hurried to the inn,
 and, with dreadful lamentations, related the disaster that had
 happened. Laughable was it for us to hear the various strange
 and contradictory accounts which they gave of last night's ad
 venture. Some would have it that we were torn in pieces; others
 swore roundly, that they had seen us carried off by a whole legion
 of devils: but all of them were unanimous in bearing honorable
 testimony to their own prowess, and the signal feats of heroism
 they had achieved. But what was their surprise at learning from
 our landlord, who hitherto, had purposely concealed this intel
 ligence from them, that we were not only still in the land of the
 living, but had returned triumphant from the ghostly expedi
 tionl At first they refused to give credit to his words, but, finding
 him positive in his assertions, they insisted on being introduced to
 us immediately. This accordingly took place; mutual congratula
 tions passed between us, the promised reward was faithfully dis
 tributed, and, after satisfying our landlord, for the loss of his
 tables, benches, etc., we began to prepare for our departure. The
 lieutenant, indeed, wished still to try his luck once more, and, for
 that purpose, proposed that we should secret ourselves in the
372
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 castle the ensuing night; but to this neither the count nor myself
 would in any wise consent.
 _
 We sat out, therefore, about seven in the morning, though the
 weather was far from favorable, the wind getting exceedingly
 high, which, added to the frequent flying showers that passed over
 us, rendered the air extremely cold and damp. Already we were
 within less than a mile ofthe Black Forest, when I perceived the
 lieutenant, who rode on horseback before us, accompanied by his
 groom, suddenly stop short: after a short pause, he turned round
 his horse's head, and took a cross direction, towards a small riv
 ulet that flowed on the left side of the road. Curiosity prompted
 me to look after him—I let down the window of the carriage, and
 discovered an object that demanded my whole attention.
 Regardless of the raging storm and beating rain, that now be
 gan to fall pretty rapidly, sat a hoary-headed hermit, venerable
 with age, on the summit of a rock that projected nearly half way_
 over the stream. He held in his hands a volume of considerable
 size, and seemed entirely absorbed in contemplation. No friendly
 covering defended his aged head from the rude inclemency of the
 storm; his grey locks sported with the wind, and, dropping wet
 with the rain, watered his back and shoulders: his dress was
 equally singular, consisting of a loose robe, or gown, fastened
 about his loins with a leathern girdle, after the manner of the
 Asiatics, and seemed to proclaim him a native of the east; at his
 feet lay a long pilgrim’s staff, an hour-glass, and a knapsack made
 of tigers’ skin.
 Struck with surprise at the sight of this extraordinary char
 acter, I instantly quitted the carriage, in order to converse with
 him; the count followed my example. We arrived at the spot
 just as the lieutenant began to interrogate him.
 “And pray, Mr. Wiseacre, what book is that you are studying
 so intensely?”
 /
 The sage seemed to take no notice of this question, but con
 tinued to read, without answering a word.
 “What book have you there?” demanded the lieutenant a sec
 ond time, alighting from his horse, placing himself behind the
 pilgrim, and endeavoring to look over his shoulder.
 Still the sage made no reply, but kept his eyes immovably fixed
 upon the book he was reading.
 My curiosity was, if possible, still greater than the lieutenant’s;
 I accordingly stationed myself quite close to the wonderful
 stranger, in order to take a nearer view, both of his person and the
 volume he held in his hand. The leaves were of yellow parch
 ment, and apparently of great antiquity; the characters bore some
 resemblance to the Arabic, and were, as I perceived, drawn with
 a pen in various colors, but chiefly in red and gold.
 Meanwhile, the count and lieutenant had insensibly engaged
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 373
 the pilgrim in discourse. The latter giving Mr. Wiseacre, as he
 termed him, a shake by the shoulders, and that none of the softest,
 repeated, with authoritative voice, his former demand :—
 “What is it you are studying, my friend?”
 The sage seemed evidently disconcerted ; knit his brows, and,
 slowly raising his head, regarded us a long time with fixed and
 silent indignation: then opening his lips, with a voice calculated
 to inspire the utmost reverence and awe, replied—
 “Wisdom.”
 Count. And pray what language is it, then, in which this book
 is written?
 I
 Pilgrim. The language of wisdom.
 Count. And what is it you call wisdom?
 _ Pilgrim. Every thing of which thou hast no conception.
 Lieutenant. Well then, Mr. Wiseacre, that being the case,
 as you possess such extraordinary knowledge of things which the
 rest of mankind have no conception of, I shall be happy, me
 thinks, to ask you a question or two.
 ‘
 Pilgrim (viewing him sternly). Ask on.
 Lieutenant. Not far from this place stands a village, which is
 said to be haunted by a whole troop of devils. The manor-house,
 it seems, is their nocturnal place of rendezvous. These gentle
 ment, together with myself have kept watch in the castle these
 two nights past
 Pilgrim (interrupting him). And yet are not a whit the wiser
 than before: for thou art not the man to whom wisdom deigns
 her hidden lore; nor is the management of ghosts to thee in
 trusted.
 Lieutenant. That man, we suppose, can be no other than
 yourself.
 Pilgrim. I understand the language of wisdom.
 The lieutenant, naturally addicted to raillery, could no longer
 refrain from bursting into a loud laugh. Of this the pilgrim took
 no manner of notice; but, returning to his former study, was soon
 absorbed in meditation, from which, however, he was again roused
 by the count.
 “Friend,” began the latter, “as such great wisdom appears to
 be contained in the book you read, may we be allowed to ask who
 those spirits are, and for what reason they thus infest the above
 mentioned castle?”
 Pilgrim (after a long pause). None but the spirits themselves
 dare resolve thee that question.
 '
 Count. What, then, does your famous book of wisdom
 treat of?
 Pilgrim. Of the manner in which spirits may be forcibly
 compelled to appear, and a full confession extorted from them.
374
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Count. How happens it, then, that you have never essayed
 your art upon those which disturb the peace of the neighboring
 village?
 Pilgrim. Because I have no wish, no interest in the case.
 Lieutenant. Well, but, Mr. Wiseacre, suppose that we should
 make you an offer of our purses; might not money, perhaps, have
 some weight in persuading you to make a trial of your skill?
 Pilgrim (in a violent rage). Mean, sordid wretch? begone—
 can gold be deemed equivalent to wisdom?
 Lieutenant. What, then, can purchase it?
 Pilgrim. Nothing! Will your courage stand the test?
 Lieutenant. Were there any doubt of that, we should not
 have ventured to keep watch in a place so formidable.
 Pilgrim. Well, then, watch one night more; precisely three
 quarters past eleven you will see me, to a certainty. ' Meanwhile,
 leave me to my meditations.
 The peremptory tone and manner in which he pronounced these
 .words put it out of our power to disobey.—We retreated slowly
 to our carriage, looking back, almost every minute, at the wonder
 ful pilgrim, who instantly relapsed into his former study. The
 lieutenant, as he remounted his horse, proposed that we should
 return to the inn, and, putting off our departure till the morrow,
 give the stranger the meeting at the time appointed.
 Much as I disliked the project, it was in vain for me to raise
 objections: the curiosity of the count was wound up to its highest
 pitch; my consent, therefore, was rather extorted than obtained
 from me.
 ,
 Our landlord, on learning the cause of our return, was little
 better than distracted with joy; for, exclusive of the profits he
 hoped to reap from another ghostly frolic, having been paid more
 than double the value of his table, benches, etc., lost in our last
 expedition, his brain was next kin to turned with the marvellous
 relations which our valiant companions gave of the adventure.
 Nothing was talked of, but how frightfully the spectres had ap
 peared; how furiously they broke in upon us; how they breathed
 f
 ire and smoke through their nostrils ; with eyes flaming-red, as big
 as any pint basins: notwithstanding all which, they had, they said,
 laid so manfully about them, that the whole infernal troop was
 forced to take a precipitate flight, and were, long before this, ten
 miles at least below the bottom of the Rea Sea! Hence, we saw
 ourselves regarded, by the whole village, as beings of a superior
 order, and had enough to do to answer all the questions put to us
 by our admirers. This was highly pleasing to the lieutenant, who
 diverted himself, the whole day, with practicing upon the simplicity
 of these rustics ; and, I am firmly persuaded, told more fortunes in
 the course of six hours than many astrologers have an opportunity
 of doing in the course of as many years.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 375
 On the approach of night, we had a numerous army at com
 mand, without being necessitated, as before, to beat up for volun
 teers; young and old entreating us to permit them to bear us
 company: they neither demanded pay nor provisions; the bare
 honor of serving under us was, as they observed, more than suffi
 cient recompense. Company, however, was not what we at pres
 ent wanted; not to mention that we had already but too well
 experienced what sort of dependence we ought to place upon their
 valor and assistance: we dissembled, therefore, our intentions;
 but, finding even this ineffectual to answer our purpose, we were
 fain, in order to get rid of our troublesome visitors, to pretend
 ourselves sleepy, and to order the straw to be got ready for our
 reception.
 About ten we stole away as privately as possible to the castle.
 On our arrival in the court, the lieutenant’s servant lighted up the
 lamp we had brought with us ; af er which we repaired to the hall,
 where, finding the benches we ha formerly erected for our accom
 modation still standing, we seated ourselves, and waited in anxious
 expectation the time appointed for meeting our unknown con
 ductor.
 The lieutenant appeared doubtful whether the pilgrim might
 not fail of his appointment, and discovered evident symptoms of
 mistrust, that he had no other view in promising to meet us, than
 merely to sport with our credulity. But the count, who, from his
 youth, had always manifested a strong hankering after the mar
 vellous, was so entirely prepossessed with the venerable appear
 ance of the hoary-headed sage, that he was ready to pledge his
 honor for his punctuality. This gave birth to a curious contro
 versy between the lieutenant and the count, on the subject of
 supernatural agency; the former ridiculing the whole system as
 visionary and preposterous, whilst the latter was firmly of opinion
 that, however exaggerated and disguised such accounts might be in
 the detail, the doctrine itself was founded in truth and
 experience. For my part, I cursed and damned the pilgrim most
 devoutly, and only wished that we had never seen nor given our
 selves the least trouble about him.
 In this manner did we endeavor to beguile the tedious hour of
 expectation. Before us lay our watches placed upon the table, to
 which our eyes almost momentarily reverted. The minute-hand
 had hardly pointed to three quarters past eleven, when we plainly
 distinguished the tread of human footsteps across the passage.
 “You are perfectly right, my lord,” quoth the lieutenant, ad
 dressing himself to the count; “our pilgrim is a man of honor.”
 With these words he snatched up the lamp, and went to meet him.
 Our conductor had now reached the hall. His dress was much
 the same as when we first beheld him, excepting that on his head
 he wore a kind of turban, and carried his knapsack strapped about
376
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 his shoulders. With slow and solemn steps he approached the
 place where we were seated; then, suddenly stopping short, beck
 oned with his hand for us to follow him. We obeyed, and, leaving
 the lieutenant’s servant fast asleep behind us, followed him to the
 stone staircase at the opposite end of the hall. This we descended,
 and next traversed, in awful silence, the long winding passage to
 which it led, till we came to the door of the vault, which the lieu
 tenant had burst open on our first visit to the castle.
 Here our conductor again stopped short; took the lamp out of
 the hand of the lieutenant, and, viewing us attentively all round,
 with a stern, forbidding look, that seemed to presage strange
 wonders, addressed us in a trembling tone of voice:
 Let awful silence seal your lips, nor dare
 To tempt that fate which prudence bids beware;
 For know one single word makes instant death your share.
 i
 _
 The impression which his speech made upon our minds may be
 more easily imagined than described. We entered the vault, not
 without horror and reluctance; this time, however, we found the
 air of this subterranean dungeon less noxious and pestilential than
 before, owing, probably, to the door having been left open by the
 lieutenant, at the time it was forced, as related above. Our con
 ductor, approaching the folding doors on the right-hand side,
 pushed back the large enormous bolts which guarded them with a
 degree of ease that well might create astonishment; then drawing
 forth from his bosom a ponderous key of massy iron, fastened
 round his neck by a chain of the same metal, he thrice pronounced
 a word of mystic, but to us incomprehensible, meaning:
 ——————And in the keyhole turns
 The intricate wards, and every bolt and bar
 Unfastens: on a sudden, open fly,
 With impetuous recoil and jarring sound,
 The infernal doors, and on their hinges grate
 Harsh thunder.————————--——————
 Horrible, beyond description, was the place into which we now
 entered. The form was circular, arched over with brick, and to
 tally impervious to the smallest ray of light from without. Hollow
 sounded the ground beneath our feet, and every step we took
 re-echoed back distantly from the walls. ' Facing the entrance,
 appeared another pair of folding doors, secured with locks and
 bolts, more formidable than the former.
 A blue inconstant flame, accompanied with a strong sulphur
 eous smell that rendered the faculty of breathing extremely diffi
 cult, whilst it enhanced the gloomy horror of the scene, gradually
 discovered to our view the mouldering monuments of ruin and
 decay. Rotten coffins, human bones, ghostly skulls, shrouds,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 377
 scutcheons, urns, and all the various symptoms of mortality, were
 seen on every side. In the middle of the vault arose a lofty bier,
 which supported a black leaden coffin, of unusual magnitude.
 Over it hung a lamp, dependent from a triple chain of iron.
 Our conductor uncovered his head; we followed his example,
 and ranged ourselves, in awful silence, round the coffin, but still
 at such a distance that we could barely touch it with outstretched
 arms. Then placing the lamp held in his hands upon the floor, the
 necromantic sage proceeded to until his knapsack, from which,
 together with the book he was studying when we first set eyes
 upon him, he took out a magic wand, composed of three different
 pieces, which fastened together in one, by means of joints, like a
 fishing-rod, and a tin box filled with red sand.
 With this he bestrewed the adjacent parts of the floor; and,
 having fastened his rod together, described therewith three magic
 circles, parallel at equal distances in the sand. The innermost was
 occupied by the exorcist; in the second stood the count, the lieu
 tenant, and myself; the outermost being left empty, probably by
 way of defence, or to serve as a rampart, in case the evil spirits
 should think proper to meditate any sudden attack upon us. Thus
 duly armed, intrenched, and fortified, according to the demoniac
 system of tactics—(such of our readers as wish fora fuller account
 of this science, are respectfully referred to the famous treatise,
 De Damonologia, published by that learned and pious scribe,
 Joannes Bodinus)—we held ourselves in readiness against the
 ghostly invasion.
 The sage, crossing his hands over his breast, stood for some
 minutes motionless as a statue, with his eyes directed towards
 heaven, or at least towards the ceiling of the vault. Suddenly, he
 appeared seized with violent convulsions; the features of his coun
 tenance became distorted to a ghastly degree, his eyes began to
 roll, his brows knitted together, in a manner hideous to behold;
 his teeth chattered in his head, his hair bristled up like quills upon
 the fretful porcupine; in short, every part of his body bore witness
 to the big feelings with which his heart seemed ready to burst.
 Words at length found their way, but in a language to us quite
 unintelligible.—They were pronounced in a hollow tone of voice,
 and with surprising vehemence. He next opened the mystic book,
 and, with the same continued agitation of face and body, began to
 read in a kind of half whisper; the sweat all the time running
 #"his face, as though the iron hand of death had seized upon
 1111.
 The longer the sage continued to read, the more terrible became
 his convulsions; till, at length, unable to contain himself, he flung
 the book out of his hand with great violence against the ground.
 Immediately the fury of his looks subsided, his eyes ceased to
 roll, and his whole frame became more composed. With both his
378
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 hands outstretched, and pointing with his wand to the coffin that
 lay before us, he again stood motionless as a statue.
 The sound of horns and trumpets, with which the whole fabric
 now began to shake, proclaimed the arrival of the midnight hunt
 ers. Still the sage continued motionless. The noise drew nearer,
 and presently the troop rushed thundering into the court. Still
 the sage continued motionless. The next instant we heard them
 rapidly descending the stone staircase. Inward horror seized upon
 us: but still the sage continued motionless. And now the tread of
 their feet resounded along the narrow winding passage that led to
 the vault next us. The sage, with a sudden motion turning him
 self round in his circle, waved his magic wand in the air, and all
 was silent in a moment.
 Thrice, with tremendous voice, the sage pronounced a mystic
 word of unknown import; striking each time violently with his
 wand against the ground. Earth heard the summons, and obeyed.
 A sudden flash of lightning shot trembling across the walls, whilst,
 thundering in our ears, was heard the dreadful subterraneous peal.
 All nature seemed convulsed ; rocked, as with an earthquake, shook
 the hollow vault ; our lamps, though well supplied with oil, refused
 to burn, and, ere the deep-mouthed thunder ceased to roll, we
 found ourselves surrounded with midnight darkness.
 Soon, however, a faint glimmeringlight began to diffuse itself
 from the center of the vault, increasing every moment, till the
 place was sufficiently illuminated for us to distinguish the sur
 rounding objects. We now perceived, with horror and astonish
 ment, that this light proceeded from the inside of the leaden coffin,
 the lid of which, gradually lifting up, apparently from some inter
 nal force, at length disclosed to view a human figure, pale and
 ghostly, clad in a flowing white garment, stained with blood. With
 wild disorder in her looks, she cast her hollow eyes around ; pushed
 back the long black tresses of her hair, which, matted with gore,
 descended below her waist, and, baring her bosom, pointed to the
 gaping orifice of a deadly wound, inflicted beneath her left breast.
 Drops of blood still trickled from her pierced heart, and dread
 fully resounded her groans from the vault.
 Approaching the other circle with a furious, threatening mien,
 she seemed preparing to rush upon us. The sage stretched forth
 his hand, struck thrice with his wand against the magic boundary,
 and instantly the threatening form shrank back.
 “Who art thou?” demanded the apparition; “and by what
 authority dare thy unhallowed steps profane the place where
 spirits unembodied seek repose?”
 '
 “And who art thou?” replied the sage sternly, and not the least
 daunted, “that darest disturb the peace of this ill-fated mansion?"
 “Not I!” howled she, in a lamentable piteous tone of voice;
 "not I, but the damned spirit of my husband! Bear witness, this
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 379 '
 accursed steel—displaying a bloody dagger in her right hand—
 bear witness, this deep wound, still reeking with my gore”; here
 she again pointed to her breast—“ ’tis he, and he alone, disturbs
 the peace of this whole village; ’tis he that violates even my
 repose!”
 The Sage. But wherefore?
 Spirit. No time was given for repentance: no friendly warn
 ing bade me in haste secure my peace with heaven. Fearless, I
 pressed the downy couch ; undreaded and unseen, the dark assassin
 dealt the murderous blow. Thus sent with all my sins unpardoned
 on my head, I suffer here, awhile, the torments of the purging
 f
 lame. But double wrath pursues my murderer, whom the right
 eous Judge above has doomed to bear the punishment due to his
 sins and mine!
 The Sage. Unhappy spirit! betake thyself to rest. By the
 deep secrets of you mystic book! by that dread power which hell
 itself controls! by all the terrors of the world unknown! I swear
 thy rest shall never be disturbed!
 The spirit, making a low bow in token of gratitude, regained the
 coffin, where it presently disappeared under the lid, which now
 returned to its former place. The light that issued from the inside
 gradually died away, as the coflin closed, leaving us once more
 involved in thick, impenetrable darkness.
 Petrified with horror and amazement, having neither will to
 stay nor power to move, we stood a long time senseless and
 immovable.
 At length a dreadful flash of lightning, bursting full in our
 faces, ran whizzing along the walls, and louder than before rattled
 the hoarse rebellious thunder in our ears. Instantaneously our
 lamps, self-lighted, began to burn again; whilst silence once more
 iresumed its wonted empire around us.
 Our conductor hereupon, with great composure, gathered up
 the scattered contents of his knapsack, replaced it upon his shoul
 ders, and beckoned with his hand for us to follow him. After
 carefully relocking the door, and pushing home the bolts, he drew_
 forth from his pocket a piece of yellow parchment, about six
 inches square, and inscribed with the same kind of characters
 as his book appeared to be written in. This he laid upon the
 wings of the folding doors, in such a manner that it covered both
 in equal proportion; then sealing it at the four corners with red
 wax, and a large iron seal, he again pronounced some short mys
 tic sentences, and with his wand described the emblem of a cross
 from one end of the door to the other.
 We were now in the empty vault which we had before visited
 on our first 'excursion to the castle. The sage, advancing to the
 opposite door.on the left hand, repeated his mystic ceremonies.
 The lock soon yielded to his trusty key. We entered. Our way
t
 380
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 led through another winding passage, arched over with brick
 like the former, but much wider and longer; with this additional
 difference, that it had six or seven doors, all strongly secured
 on each side, besides a larger one of massy iron, in which it termi
 nated.
 This being likewise opened with great ease, we had next to
 ascend a long flight of stone steps: at the top of which, another
 door, studded with enormous iron nails, presented itself. Here
 our conductor again stopped short, paused a while, and with great
 solemnity repeated his former injunctions respecting silence, al
 though there seemed but little need for this precaution, not a
 single word having been exchanged between us all the time.
 The opening of this door was attended with much greater
 ceremony than any other. We likewise took notice that our con
 ductor, for this purpose, made use of a different key than he had
 before employed; a circumstance which seemed rather ominous
 to the lieutenant, as I could plainly perceive, by several significant
 looks which he cast both at the count and myself. We had, how
 ever, gone too far to recede. A narrow passage, in which it was
 impossible to stand upright, conducted us to an iron trap-door,
 opening upon a second flight of steps. There we descended,and
 found ourselves in a gloomy dungeon of a considerable size; dark
 as the shades of midnight, and damp as the falling dews, when
 Sol withdraws his cheering rays. Fronting the staircase, and
 on each side, appeared another formidable door.
 Advancing into the middle of this dismal place, the sage made
 a signal for us to range ourselves round him. Hereupon, the
 ground was bestrewed with red sand, in which he, as before, de
 scribed three magic circles with his wand, and, opening his books,
 began to read softly, with great agitation of body. Then throw
 ing his book upon the ground, he waved his wand in air, turned
 himself round with surprising velocity, and thrice pronounced,
 with a loud and dreadful voice, the same mystic word which he
 had formerly made use of.
 The whole dungeon instantly appeared on fire: the forked
 lightnings, reverberating from the wall, flashed with dreadful
 impetuosity in our faces, succeeded with peals of thunder, that
 seemed to forebode the total dissolution of nature. Earth felt
 the potent shock, and trembled to its centre: all the doors of our
 prison flew open with a noise louder than the loudest thunder:
 above us and around us shook the Gothic pile, threatening to
 overwhelm us beneath its ruins. At the same time, our lamp
 went out, and in its stead was seen a blue sulphureous flame hov
 ering over the steps of the stone staircase, from whence it now
 began to roll itself down. Hollow groans, and the dismal clank
 ing of chains, invaded our ears. Terror, beyond the power of
 language to describe, laid hold of us.
 *
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 381
 As the noise drew nearer, the sage placed himself with his
 face towards the stone staircase, and soon we saw, with horror
 inexpressible, a grim and ghastly figure, of uncommon magnitude,
 descending down the steps. A double row of chairs were fas
 tened to his feet and hands, which, rattling at every step he took,
 grated harsh infernal thunder in our ears. His garment appeared
 as if it had been newly dipped in blood; his right eyeball was forced
 out of its socket, and the upper part of his skull was shattered to
 pieces. Thus, horrible to behold, he approached, with furious
 mien, the outer circles, foaming at the mouth, and grinding his
 teeth like the savage fierce Hyrcanian tiger. The sage stretched
 forth his wand, and with authoritative voice addressed the spectre:
 “Stay here, accursed wretch!” he said, “and tell me who thou
 art?”
“A spirit of the damned!” replied the spectre, trembling.
 Sage. Hell, then, is fittest for thee! What business brings
 thee hither?
 Spirit. To seek deliverance from its flames.
 Sage. On what conditions hopest thou to attain this?
 Spirit. None, none, alas! except my wife's forgiveness.
 Sage. Is that thy only hope? Then back to hell—back to thy
 proper punishment—Away! fly! fly with thy infernal troop; nor
 ever more presume to violate the peace of this neighborhood.
 Behold yon mystic book, and tremble!
 At these words the sage pointed to the opposite door of the
 dungeon: reluctantly the spectre bowed submission, and retreated.
 Instantly the vault appeared the second time in flames. Louder
 and more awful roared the thunder: all the doors fell to with
 horrible recoil: dreadful groans resounded in our ears: frightful
 apparitions glided along the walls, which, shaking with the deep
 mouthed thunder, threatened us with immediate destruction.
 A scene like this might well strike terror into the stoutest
 heart. We remained a long time in a state of stupefaction, from
 which we however gradually recovered, as the lightnings ceased
 to flash, and the hoarse rebellious thunder abated its fury. The
 blue sulphureous flame no longer rolled itself down the stone stair
 case; darkness worse than Egyptian enveloped us around, hideous
 groans and lamentations rendering the gloomy silence of the
 place still more awful and tremendous.
 These likewise gradually dying away, we were, if possible,
 still more terrified and alarmed by the hoarse music of the wind
 ing horn, and the dashing of horses’ hoofs, which now resounded
 dreadfully in the echoing air. Roused by the well-known sound,
 from the state of insensibility in which we lay, we discovered
 with horror our hopeless situation. Bewildered in a gloomy sub
 terraneous dungeon, surrounded with impenetrable darkness, and
 nearly suffocated with a strong sulphurous vapor that pervaded
52
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 the place, it tended not a little to aggravate the horrors of the
 scene, that each of us, ignorant of the presence of the rest, sup
 posed himself deserted and alone. Long time was it before I
 could recover sufficient fortitude to grope about me; nor was I
 less perplexed which way to steer my doubtful course, than the
 mariner that tosses without compass on the boundless deep, whilst
 night invests the pole, and not a star is seen in the spacious firma
 ment of heaven.
 In this uncertainty I felt myself suddenly seized by the hand.
 Reason had not yet resumed her empire over my mind; my im
 agination was still too much heated with the strange scenes I had
 just witnessed, to form any cool deliberation; and fancying my
 self actually under the influence of enchantment, I started back
 with a fearful shriek, not less appalled than if the grisly‘ king of
 terrors himself had laid his icy hand upon me!
 ~
 “Don’t be alarmed,” exclaimed the well-known voice of the
 .lieutenant; and instantly my fears fell, like a heavy stone, from
 my heart. At the same time, I had the pleasure to hear the count
 speak. We presently joined him, and, holding fast by the skirts
 of our coats, that we might not be separated again, endeavored to
 grope our way to the staircase.
 In this design, after many fruitless attempts, we had at length
 the good fortune to succeed. Never did panting lover mount the
 staircase leading to the apartment of his mistress with greater
 alacrity than we displayed in climbing up these steps. But how
 shall I express the horror and disappointment we experienced on
 f
 inding the trap-door fastened against us? The lieutenant, who
 on this as on all other occasions acted as our leader, after com
 municating this unwelcome intelligence, proposed that, instead of
 giving ourselves up for lost, we should try our united strength in
 forcing it open. Every nerve, accordingly, was strained to ac
 complish a purpose so devoutly to be wished, but all in vain ;—
 the door defied our utmost efforts.
 Equally unsuccessful were we in our endeavors to make our
 selves heard by the lieutenant’s servant, whom we had left fast
 asleep in the hall on the arrival of the pilgrim, as related before.
 In vain did we exalt our voices, till our very throats were hoarse
 with bawling: in vain did echo repeat his name, in long reiterated
 peals, through the spacious untenanted apartments: in vain, with
 hands and knees, did we strike against the iron door, till the blood
 began to trickle down with the blows ;—no pleasing sound of hu
 man footsteps saluted our longing ears.
 ‘
 “Deuce take the lazy rascal !”—exclaimed the lieutenant, tired
 with the double fatigue of bawling and thumping against the
 door—“I question whether the last trump itself would be power
 ful enough to arouse him; and we may fairly roar our lungs out
 at this rate, without doing any manner of good. ‘Rather let us
ANCIENT MANU‘SCRIPTS
 383
 sit down upon these steps, and listen till he begins to walk about
 in search of us, as no doubt he will do when he awakes, and finds
 us missing.”
 This advice was immediately put in execution; though, for my
 own part, I must acknowledge that I had little hope of ever
 seeing the servant again. I judged it, however, prudent to conceal
 as much as possible my suspicions, and the lieutenant, likewise
 dissembling his anxiety, began to discourse upon the strange
 scenes we had just witnessed; but, in spite of his utmost efforts,
 was not able to assume his wonted gayety and unconcern. The
 count and myself made little or no reply, our thoughts being too
 much engrossed with the probable danger of our present situation:
 the lieutenant soon found it impossible to disguise his apprehen
 sions any longer; and in this miserable state of horror and alarm
 we continued, as nearly as I can guess, upwards of an hour, with
 out exchanging a single word. Nothing but the gentle breath of
 respiration disturbed the gloomy silence that reigned around.
 Thus things continued, till the natural impetuosity of the
 lieutenant could contain itself no longer; wherefore, making a
 fresh attempt to engage us in conversation, he demanded, whether
 we were all in a league with his servant, and were sleeping for a
 wager? But though the agitation of our minds effectually re
 pulsed the most distant advances of sleep, we were equally in
 capable of joining in discourse, and, urged by that strong pro
 pensity in human nature which renders man a genuine Heau—
 tontimoroumenos,* and inclines the mind to take a strange delight '
 in tormenting itself, and brooding over its misfortunes and calam
 ities, we still remained silent for nearly two hours longer, feast
 ing our troubled thoughts with ideal and anticipated sorrows.
 “Damn me, if I hold it out any longer!" exclaimed the lieu
 tenant, in a kind of frenzy, “that cursed rascal of mine can never
 sleep at such a devil of a rate as this. But were he even as fast
 as our great grandfather Adam when his precious rib was taken
 from his side, I think I’ll manage to open his eyes for him.”
 With these words he began to stamp and roar, as though his
 design had actually been nothing less than to anticipate the day of
 general resurrection. The count and myself, seconding him with
 might and main in his pious intentions, joined lustily in the rough
 chorus—but all to no purpose; no answer was returned—no tread
 of footsteps could be heard. Exhausted with fatigue, we were
 fain to desist; and, once more seating ourselves upon the stone
 steps, our patience was again put to the test, in waiting till the
 servant should think proper to awake.
 After two or three hours spent in fruitless expectation—
 _
 _''The name given to one of Terence's plays. The word is originally Greek, and
 signifies a self-tarmentor.
384
 THE OLD‘BOOK OF MAGIC
 “I should be very sorry, gentlemen,” began the lieutenant,
 addressing us in a firm indignant tone of voice, “to torture either
 you or myself with groundless apprehensions. But, from the com
 plexion of circumstances, our destruction in this dismal dungeon
 appears inevitable. As men, however, who have nothing worse
 than what already awaits us to dread, let us borrow hope and
 courage from despair; and rather let us perish in a bold attempt
 to regain our liberty, than calmly submit to a lingering death,
 which resolution and perseverance may still, perhaps, enable us
 to escape. Though this proud door defies our utmost and united
 efforts, some other opening may, perhaps, be found; at least, the
 chance, at any rate, is worth the trial.”
 Without waiting for our reply, the lieutenant began to descend
 the steps. We followed his example, and returned to the dismal
 ~
 dungeon from which we sought to escape. Each taking a differ
 ent direction, we groped about in quest of some friendly avenue
 that might afford us egress.
 In any other situation, the whimsical manner in which we fre
 quently met together might well have excited our risibility. Some
 times we laid hold of each other by the feet and hands, or, run
 ning foul, came tumbling to the ground together. At other times,
 our noses met in rude contact with the opposing walls, or our
 shins were kicked bloody against the loose bricks and rubbish that
 lay scattered up and down the place. But all our efforts proved
 abortive. Faint and exhausted, I at length stretched myself out
 upon the ground, and, more concerned about the safety of the
 count than my own, began to load myself with bitter reproaches,
 for having, through my indiscreet compliance, precipitated my
 pupil into inevitable ruin and destruction,—into the necessity of
 dying a lingering death in a subterraneous dungeon.
 Meanwhile that I was indulging these disagreeable reflections,
 the lieutenant and count continued their researches, as I could
 easily distinguish by the sound of their feet, which echoed dread
 fully through the dismal vault. Neither of them spoke a word,
 but groped about, for some time, in gloomy and profound silence.
 At length, the steps of one of my unhappy comrades ceased to
 be heard.
 “Where are you both?” cried the lieutenant, greatly agitated
 and alarmed.
 I
 “For my part, I am'here,” was the reply ;—
 is the count ?”
 We both joined in calling after him, and roared out at least
 ‘but where, pray,
 as loud and lustily as we had done some hours before in search
 of the lieutenant’s servant. The count, however, returned no
 manner of answer. My fears and apprehensions for his safety
 were now doubly increased ;—I was in a condition little short of
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 385
 positive distraction. Suddenly a hollow rattling noise was heard
 at some distance, and instantly a faint glimmering light began
 to diffuse itself in the corner of our dungeon.
 Transported with this discovery, the lieutenant and myself
 directed our steps towards the place from whence the light seemed
 to proceed. We found, to our unspeakable joy, one of the iron
 doors of our prison open, through which we entered into a long
 passage, arched over with brick, at the extremity of which, at a
 considerable distance, appeared teh welcome light of day. This
 passage led us by a gradual descent to a short flight of steps, open
 ing into a spacious apartment, the flooring of which was broken
 through near the entrance; and through this aperture it was
 that the light issued. Looking down in hopes of making fresh
 discoveries, we saw with horror the count stretched at full length
 ,
 upon a heap of moldering straw, to all appearance lifeless and ‘
 insensible.
 The height from which he had tumbled might be about fourteen
 feet, but, had it been double that number, I should not have hesi
 tated a moment in jumping after him. The lieutenant followed
 my example, and, seizing the count by the arms, we began to
 shake him lustily with might and main, till he discovered symp
 toms of remaiinng life. Our joint endeavors soon restored him
 to a perfect possession of his faculties; when it appeared that, the
 fright excepted, he had sustained no material injury. From his
 relation we learnt, that having accidentally groped his way to
 the door on the left hand, and finding it yield to his push (most
 probably the lock had failed to fly back, at the time when the
 doors of the dungeon shut upon us, as related before), he con
 tinued to descend the passage, till, falling from the staircase upon
 the floor of the apartment to which it led, the rotten boards, not
 able to sustain his weight, had broken under him, and thereby
 precipitated him into the place where we now found him.
 This place, from its present appearance, had most probably
 been used in former times for a stable. It had two round windows
 in the wall, secured with iron gratings, through which the light
 could barely find admission. We perceived a wooden door in
 one corner, against which we pushed with our united efforts, and
 presently the rotten boards fell tumbling in pieces at our feet.
 A hollow subterraneous passage conducted us by a gradual
 ascent to a trap-door, which opened into the garden at the back
 of the castle. Our joy at once more beholding the welcome face
 of day is beyond the power of language to describe; we embraced
 each other with the most transporting ardor, and mutual congra
 tulations on our narrow escape from the jaws of death; and,
 being already sufficiently acquainted with the walks of the gar
 den, which we explored on our first visit to the castle, we easily
 regained the hall, where we had left the lieutenant’s servant fast
386
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 asleep the preceding night. Table and benches were still stand
 ing, but no signs of John could we possibly discover.
 “The fellow, no doubt, has made his escape to the inn!” was
 the lieutenant’s opinion, after we had in vain made every apart
 ment of the castle echo with his name. We accordingly posted
 back to the inn, thanking God that he had not punished our
 curiosity more severely, as we took our leave of the haunted
 castle.
 On our arrival at the inn, we found our landlord encompassed
 with a whole troop of the inhabitants of the village, who, it seems,
 had come to inquire after us; the ghosts having made such a hor
 rible uproar in the place the preceding night, that they all, with
 one accord, gave us up for lost, and almost dreaded to inquire
 after our fate. Great, therefore, was their astonishment at see
 ing us enter so suddenly into their midst. Every one, as with
 common consent, put his hand to his hat, and reverently bade us
 welcome, falling foul upon us, at the same time, with an infinite
 multitude of questions relative to last night's adventures. This
 time, however, the lieutenant had little inclination to divert him
 self with practicing upon their simplicity; his answers were short
 and unsatisfactory, and, turning round to the landlord, he endeav
 ored to put an end to their impertinence by inquiring after his
 servant.
 I
 “I have seen nothing of him since yesterday,” was the reply.
 “Are the horses safe?” demanded the lieutenant.
 “As safe and well as good stabling and the best of corn can
 make them: it is hardly ten minutes since I fed them myself.”
 With a look that sufficiently indicated his surprise and embar
 rassment, the lieutenant regarded us steadfastly all round; then
 addressing himself to the peasants, he offered them a handsome
 reward to explore the neighborhood in search of his servant.
 Every one testified his readiness to serve him, and eagerly set out
 in the pursuit; but, after a long and fruitless search, they all re
 turned with the unwelcome intelligence, that no traces of him were
 to be found.
 As we had no hopes of seeing the lost fugitive any more, and
 were by no means willing to repeat our visits to the haunted castle,
 we resolved to pursue our journey immediately after dinner, and
 accordingly gave the necessary orders for our departure. At part
 ing, our landlord and the peasants could not refrain from tears,
 so much were they prepossessed in our favor; we made them a
 decent present to drink our healths, and set off with the good
 wishes of the whole neighborhood.
 The lieutenant being better acquainted with the Black Forest
 than ourselves, undertook to lead the‘ way: we followed his guid
 ance, and soon cleared this terrible desert, without meeting with
 any fresh adventures. The following evening he took his leave
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 387
 of us, being in haste to rejoin the party to which he belonged.
 We parted with the utmost reluctance, and with mutual assur
 ances of friendship and esteem. As he gave us his hand, “Accept,
 gentlemen (he began), my sincerest thanks for your faithful
 assistance and co-operation in encountering the most dreadful
 adventure I ever yet had occasion to experience in the whole
 course of my life. Should I ever be so fortunate as to obtain any
 further light respecting this intricate affair (and you may rest
 assured that I will exert my utmost endeavors to obtain satisfac
 tory information, at some future period), I shall consider it my
 duty to communicate the particulars to you. On your side I re
 quest the same, in case you should be beforehand with me in your
 discoveries: meanwhile, accept of my best wishes, and whenever
 you call to mind the twenty-third of September, 1750, let the
 Danish lieutenant have a place likewise in your remembrance."
 Founded on fact, and sanctioned by experience, it is to be
 hoped that this history will meet with a more favorable reception
 than exploded romances of giants and enchanters, than fairy tales
 of Persian fables; which, bybeing destitute of probability as well
 as truth, must prove insipid and disgusting to every reader of
 sentiment and taste. For, if anything can render greater interest
 to a narrative, it is the conviction that such things have actually
 occurred.
CHAPTER XXIX
 THE ENCHANTED BULLET-THE BRIDE'S
 DREAM OF DEATH
 WHERE THE MAGIC CIRCLE WAS DRAWN, THE SKULLs
 FIXED, AND THE BONES LAID
 The chief personages in this remarkable tale, are Bertram, an
 old forester of Linden; Anne, his wife; Kate, their daughter;
 | William, her sweetheart; Robert, his rival; a mysterious stranger,
 with a wooden leg; and the devil. Bertram is in the vassalage of
 Duke somebody, and possesses a farm, which has been in the
 family for more than two hundred years. The farm was first
 granted to one Kuno, Bertram's great grandfather's father, as a
 reward for his having performed an extraordinary feat as a
 marksman. This dexterity brought upon Kuno the envy and ill
 will of his neighbors; from which, it seems, the world was just as
 wicked two hundred years ago as it is at the present time. Well,
 these abominable neighbors did what many of our own neighbors
 388
 •
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 389
 would do under similar circumstances; they endeavored to per
 suade the duke that Kuno's shot had hit the mark through Witch
 craft and Black Arts. So hereupon a regulation was made, and
 from this the custom came, that every descendant of Kuno must
 undergo a trial, and fire what they call his probationary shot, be
 fore he is admitted tenant.
 Bertram, having no son, naturally looked forward to some
 clever fellow for a son-in-law, laying it down as a law, that the
 being a good shot was an indispensable qualification in him who
 should hope to become the husband of his daughter. In looking
 round, as all prudent fathers ought to do, for such an appendage
 to Kate's comforts (we consider it highly improper to leave these
 matters to the daughters themselves), his glance fell upon Robert
 the hunter, and—there it rested. Well, Robert was to be the
 husband, and would have been, but for one trifling circumstance.
 Kate was in love with somebody else (oh! the vile creature), and
 this somebody else was William, the bailiff's clerk.
 William's talent lay in driving a quill, but Bertram wanted a
 man who could drive a bullet—poor Kate wanted a husband.
 Bertram was incorrigible on the subject of a marksman. “But,”
 said he, “it’s not altogether Robert that I care about. I don’t
 stand upon trifles: and, if the man is not to your taste or the girl's,
 why look out any other active huntsman that may take my office
 betimes, and give us a comfortable fire-side in our old age—
 Robert or not Robert, so that it be a lad of the forest;” and, tak
 ing his gun, off he trudged to the forest. This was a very neces
 sary measure, in order to avoid the long arguments of Anne in
 favor of her daughter and William. Scarcely had he turned the
 corner of the house, when a rosy light-haired face looked in at the
 door. It was Katherine: smiling and blushing, she stopped for a
 moment in agitation, and said:—“Have you succeeded, mother?
 was it yes, dear mother?” Then, bounding into the room, she
 fell on her mother's neck for an answer.
 “Ah, Kate, be not too confident when thou shouldst be pre
 pared for the worst: thy father is a good man, as good as ever
 stepped, but he has his fancies; and he is resolved to give thee to
 none but a hunter: he has set his heart upon it; and he'll not go
 from his word: I know him too well.”
 Katherine wept, and vowed she would rather die than part
 from her William; whilst her mother comforted and scolded her
 by turns, and at length ended by joining her tears to her daugh
 ter's. At this moment, in stepped William himself, who was soon
 told Bertram’s determination relative to his future son-in-law:
 and, for the first time, learned that the old man, simply with a
 view to the reversionary interest in his place as forester, insisted
 on Kaet's looking out for a husband who understood hunting.
 William now explained to them that he had formerly been ap
390
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 prenticed to his uncle, Finsterbuch, the forester-general; “and,”
 said he, “if your father wants a huntsman, let me die if I wont quit
 my clerkship this instant, and take to my gun and the forest.”
 This declaration pleased the mother and daughter exceedingly,
 and off William started to find out Bertram, and make known to
 him his determination. This he appears to have done most effect
 ually ; for, on the old man's return, he exclaimed, “Upon my soul,
 but this William’s a fine fellow! Who the deuce would have
 ever looked for such a good shot in the flourisher of a crow-quill?
 Well, to-morrow I shall speak with the bailiff myself, for it would
 be a sad pity if he were not to pursue the noble profession of
 hunting.”
 In a fortnight, William, who had acquitted himself so well in
 the capacity of a huntsman, received Bertram’s formal consent
 to his marriage with Katherine. This promise, however, was to be
 kept secret until the day of the probationary shot. As this im
 portant day approached, William began to fail in his skill as a
 marksman; and, though he redoubled his attention and diligence,
 he nearly missed every shot. An old huntsman, called Rudolph,
 swore there was a spell in the aflair. This opinion was laughed
 at; “but,” said Rudolph, “take my word for it, William, it is just
 what I tell you. Go some Friday at midnight to a cross—road, and
 make a circle round about you with a ramrod or a bloody sword;
 bless it three times in the same words the priest uses, but in the
 name of Samiel”—
 “Hush!” interrupted the forester angrily: “dost know what
 that name is? why, he’s one of Satan's host. God keep thee and
 all Christians out of his power!"
 William crossed himself, and would hear no more; but Ru
 dolph persisted in his opinion. All night long he continued to
 clean his gun, to examine the screws, the spring, and every part
 of the lock and barrel ; and, at break of day, he sallied forth to try
 his luck once more. But all in vain: his pains were thrown away,
 and so were his bullets. Cursing his hard fate, he threw himself
 despondingly beneath a tree; at that moment a rustling was heard
 in the bushes, and out limped an old soldier with a wooden leg.
 “Good morning to you, comrade,” said the soldier, “why so
 gloomy, why so gloomy? Is it body or purse that's ailing,—health
 or wealth is it that you’re sighing for? Or has somebody put a
 charm upon your gun? Come, give us a bit of tobacco; and let’s
 have a little chat together.”
 With a surly air, William gave him what he asked for, and
 the soldier threw himself by his side on the grass. The conversa
 tion fell on hunting, and William related his own bad luck. “Let
 me see your gun,” said the soldier. “Ah! I thought so: this gun
 has been charmed, and you’ll never get a true aim with it again:
 and, more than that, let me tell you, if the charm was laid accord
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 391'
 mg to the rules of art, you'll have no better luck with any other
 gun you take in hand."
 William shuddered ; but the stranger offered to bring the ques
 tion to a simple test. “Now, here,” said he, “for instance, is a
 ball that cannot fail to go true; because it’s a gifted ball, and is
 proof against all the arts of darkness. Just try it now. I’ll an
 swer for it.” William loaded his piece, and leveled at a large bird
 of prey, which hovered at an immense height above the forest,
 like a speck. He fired: the black speck was seen rapidly descend
 ing, and a great vulture fell bleeding to the ground.
 ‘
 “Oh! that’s nothing at all,” said the soldier, observing the
 speechless astonishment of his companion, “not worth speaking
 of. It's no such great matter to learn how to cast balls as good
 as these: little more is wanted than some slight matter of skill,
 and a stout heart; for the work must be done in the night. I’ll
 teach you and welcome, if we should meet again. Meantime,
 here's a few braces of my balls for you,” and, so saying, he limped
 off. Filled with astonishment, William tried a second of the balls,
 and again he hit an object at an incredible distance: he then
 charged with his ordinary balls, and missed the broadest and most
 obvious mark. On this second trial, he determined to go after
 the old soldier; but the soldier had disappeared in the depths of
 the forest.
 In a few days, William had so familiarized himself to the use
 of his enchanted balls, that he no longer regarded them with those
 misgivings which he had at first felt in firing them. But his stock
 of balls was at length exhausted, and day after day he watched
 with intense anxiety for his old acquaintance, the soldier, with
 the wooden leg, or rather for the wooden leg with a soldier on it.
 His search, however, was without success. Nobody of whom he
 inquired had seen any such man as he had described. “Be it so,
 then!” said William internally; “the days that remain for my
 purpose are numbered. This very night I will go to the cross
 road in the forest. It is a lonely spot; nobody will be there to
 witness my nocturnal labors: and I’ll take care not to quit the
 circle till my work is done.”
 William provided himself with lead, bullet-mold, coals, and
 all other requisites, that he might be enabled to slip out of the
 house after supper; but the old forester prevented him from leav
 ing the house that evening. The second night came, but, unfor
 tunately, an uncle of William’s came also, so that he wasagain
 prevented from going to the forest on his proposed awful expedi
 tion. As the clock struck twelve, he was reminded, with horror,
 of the business he had neglected. "Just one night more,” thought
 he, “one single night remains; to-morrow, or never!” His vio
 lent agitation did not escape his uncle’s notice; but the old man
 ascribed it to some little weariness in his nephew, and good
392
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 naturedly apologized for having engaged him so long in conver
 sation, by pleading his early departure, which he could not pos
 sibly put off beyond the first dawn of the next morning.
 The third night came. Whatever was to be done must be done,
 for the next was the day of trial. From morning to night had old
 Anne, with her daughter Kate, bustled about the house, to make
 arrangements for the suitable reception of her dignified guest,
 the commissioner. At nightfall everything was ready. Anne
 embraced William on his return from the forest, and, for the
 first time, saluted him with the endearing name of son. The eyes
 of Kate sparkled with the tender emotions of a youthful bride.
 The table was decked with festal flowers, and viands more luxuri
 ous than usual were brought out by the mother.
 “This night,” said Bertram, “we will keep the bridal feast:
 to-morrow we shall not be alone, and cannot, therefore, sit so
 confidentially and affectionately together; let us be happy then—
 as happy as if all the pleasures of our lives were to be crowded into
 this one night.”
 This was, no doubt, an exceedingly pleasant arrangement to
 everybody, except William. The clock struck nine. William's
 heart beat violently. He sought for some pretext for withdraw
 ing, but in vain: what pretext could a man find for quitting his
 young bride on their bridal festival? Time flew faster than an
 arrow : in the arms of love, that should have crowned him with
 happiness, he suffered the pangs of martyrdom. Ten o’clock was
 now past, and the decisive moment was at hand. Without taking
 leave, William stole from the side of his bride: already he was
 outside the house, with his implements of labor, when old Anne
 came after him. “Whither away, William, at this time of night?”
 asked she, anxiously. “I shot a deer, and forgot it in my hurry,”
 was the answer. In vain she begged him to stay: all her en
 treaties were flung away, and even the tender caresses of Kate,
 whose mind misgave her, that some mystery lay buried in his
 hurry and agitation. William tore himself from them both, and
 hastened to the forest. The moon was in the wane, and, at this
 time, was rising, and resting with a dim red orb upon the hori
 zon. Gloomy clouds were flying overhead, and at intervals dark
 ened the whole country, which, by fits, the moon again lit up.
 The silvery birches and the aspen trees rose like apparations in
 the forest; and the poplars seemed to William's fevered visions
 pale shadowy forms that beckoned him to retire.
 He stepped forwards with long strides; the wind drove the agi
 tated clouds again over the face of the moon, and William plunged
 into the thickest gloom of the forest.
 At length he stood upon the crossway. At length the magic
 circle was drawn, the skulls were fixed, and the bones were laid
 round about. The moon buried itself deeper and deeper in the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 393
 clouds; and no light was shed upon the midnight deed, except
 from the red lurid gleam of the fire, that waxed and waned by
 f
 its, under the gusty squalls of the wind. A remote church-clock
 proclaimed that it was now within a quarter of eleven. William
 put the ladle upon the fire, and threw in the lead, together with
 three bullets, which had already hit the mark once, a practice
 '
 amongst those who cast the “fatal bullets,” which he remembered
 to have heard mentioned in his apprenticeship. In the forest was
 now heard a pattering of rain. At intervals came flitting motions
 of owls, bats, and other light-shunning creatures, scared by the
 sudden gleams of the fire; some, dropping from the surrounding
 boughs, placed themselves on the Magic Circle, where, by their
 low dull croaking, they seemed holding dialogues, in some un
 known tongue, with the dead men’s skulls. Their numbers in
 creased; and amongst them were indistinct outlines of misty
 forms, that went and came, some with brutal, some with human
 faces. Their vapory lineaments fluctuated and obeyed the motions
 of the wind. One only stood unchanged, and like a shadow near
 to the circle, and settled the sad light of its eyes steadfastly upon
 William. Sometimes it would raise its pale hands, and seem to
 sigh; and, when it raised its hands, the fire would burn more sul
 lenly; but a gray owl would then fan with his wings, and rekindle
 the decaying embers. William averted his eyes; for the counte
 nance of his buried mother seemed to look out from the cloudy
 f
 igure, with pietous expressions of unutterable anguish. Sud
 denly it struck eleven, and then the shadow vanished, with the
 action of one who prays and breathes up sighs to heaven. The
 owls and the night-ravens flitted croaking about; and the skulls
 and bones rattled beneath their wings. William kneeled down on
 his coaly hearth; and, with the last stroke of eleven, out fell the
 f
 irst bullet.
 In this way William proceeded to cast sixty-three bullets, that
 being the number necessary to complete the Charm. With each
 bullet the horror of the scene increased; and, as the last was
 thrown out of the mold, the owls threw the skulls and bones con
 fusedly together, and flew away; the fire went out; and William
 sank exhausted to the ground.
 '
 Now came up slowly a horseman upon a black horse. He
 stopped at the effaced outline of the Magic Circle, and spoke thus:
 "Thou hast stood thy trial well: what wouldst thou have of me?”
 “Nothing of thee, nothing at all,” said William: "What I want,
 I have prepared for myself.”
 “Aye, but with my help: therefore, part belongs to me.”
 “By no means, by no means: I bargained for no help; I sum
 moned thee not."
 '
 The horseman laughed scornfully; “Thou art bolder,” said he.
 “than such as thou art wont to be. ‘ Take the balls which thou hast
394
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 cast: sixty for thee, three for me; the sixty go true, the three go
 askew: all will be plain, when we meet again.”
 William averted his face: “I will never meet thee again,”
 said he—“leave me.”
 "Why turnest thou away?” said the stranger with.a dreadful
 laugh: “dost know me?”
 “No, no,” said William, shuddering: “I know thee not! I
 wish not to know thee. Be thouwho thou mayest, leave me !”
 William returned home dreadfully frightened; but he was
 now in possession of the balls, which, with the exception of Kate,
 was all he seemed to stand in need of. The day at length dawned
 on which William was to shoot for the prize. The ducal commis
 sioner arrived, and proposed a little hunting-excursion with the
 young forester, previous to the ultimate trial of his skill. The
 party set out, and William acquitted himself most honorably.
 The hunting-party returned. The commissioner was inex
 haustible in William's praise. “After such proofs of skill,” said
 he, “it seems ridiculous that I should call for any other test:
 but, to satisfy old ordinances, we are sometimes obliged to do
 more than is absolutely needful; and so we will despatch the mat
 ter as briefly as possible. Yonder is a dove sitting on that pillar:
 level, and bring her down.”
 “Oh! not that—not that, for God’s sake, William,” cried Kath
 erine, hastening to the spot, “shoot not, for God’s sake, at the dove.
 Ah! William, last night I dreamed that I was a white dove; and
 my mother put a ring about my neck; then came you, and in a
 moment my mother was covered with blood.”
 William drew back his piece, which he had already leveled:
 but the commissioner laughed. “Eh, what?” said he, “so timor
 ous? That will never do for a forester’s wife: courage, young
 bride, courage !—Or stay, may be the dove is a pet dove of your
 own?”
 ‘
 “No,” said Katherine, “but the dream has sadly sunk my
 spirits.”
 “Well, then,” said the commissioner, “if that’s all,
 pluck ’em up again! and so fire away, Mr. Forester.”
 He fired: and at the same instant, with a piercing shriek, fell
 Katherine to the ground.
 “Strange girl,” said the commissioner, fancying that she had
 fallen only from panic, and raised her up: but a stream of blood
 f
 lowed down her face; her forehead was shattered; and a bullet
 lay sunk in the wound.
 “What’s the matter?” exclaimed William, as the cry resounded
 behind him. He turned, and saw Kate, with a deadly paleness,
 lying stretched in her blood. By her side stood the old man with
 a wooden-leg, laughing in fiendish mockery, and snarling out—
 “Sixty go true, three go askew.” In the madness of wrath,
 William drew his hanger, and made a thrust at the hideous crea

llN AWFUL APPEARANGE OF A SPIRIT
 The form approached the bed: the room was preternaturally light, the
 objects of the chamber were distinctly visible: raising her hand and point
 ing to a Dial which stood on the mantel-piece of the chimney, the figure
 ‘with a severe solemnity of voice and manner, announced to the appalled
 and conscience stricken man, that at that very hour, on the third day after
 the visitation, his life and Sins would be concluded.
 This Illustration Faces Page 395.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS :
 395
 ture. “Accursed devil!” cried he, in tones of despair, “is it thus
 thou hast deluded me?” More he had no power to utter; for he
 sank insensible to the ground, close by his bleeding bride.
 The commissioner and the priest sought vainly to speak com
 fort to the desolate parents. Scarcely had the aged mother laid
 the ominous funeral garland upon the bosom of her daughter's
 corpse, when she swept away the last tears of her unfathomable
 grief. The solitary father soon followed her. William, the fatal
 marksman, wore away his days in a madhouse.
 AWFUL APPEARANCE OF AN EVIL SPIRIT
 In the Duke of Sully's Memoirs, Book the Tenth, there is a
 very remarkable account concerning the lady of the constable of
 France, then (in the year 1595) in the flower of her age, and sup
 posed to be one of the most beautiful women in Europe. The ac
 count was given by several ladies who were then at her house.
 She was conversing cheerfully with them in her closet, when
 one of her women came in, who seemed to be under great emo
 tion, and said, “My lady, a gentleman is just entering your ante
 chamber, who is very tall, and quite black, and desires to speak
 with you. He says it is about affairs of great consequence, which
 he cannot communicate to any but you.”
 At every circumstance relating to this extraordinary courier,
 which the woman was ordered to describe minutely, the lady was
 seen to turn pale, and was so oppressed with horror, that she was
 hardly able to tell her woman to entreat the gentleman, in her
 name, to defer his visit to another time. This message she de
 livered; but he answered in a tone which filled her with astonish
 ment, “If your lady will not come to me, I will go and seek her
 in her closet.” At last she resolved to go to him, but with all
 the marks of dismay and deep despair.
 In a short time she returned to her company, bathed in tears,
 and half dead with dismay. She was able only to speak a few
 words to take leave of them, particularly the three ladies who
 were her friends, and to assure them she should never see them
 more.
 That instant she was seized with exquisite pains—all her
 beauty was gone—every feature of her face was changed, and she
 became a spectacle of horror. At the end of three days she died,
 in the utmost agonies both of body and mind.
 Of this most terrible event (the duke gravely adds) the wise
 thought as they ought to think!—Suppose the event to be true;
 suppose it be related just as it occurred (and there is no shadow
 of reason to imagine the contrary), all wise people oughtto think
 it a terrible thing for an evil spirit to put an end to the life of a
 WOman.
CHAPTER XXX
 THE CLOCK OF ETERNITY
 ITS STRIKE IS NEVER HEARD BY MORTAL EARS
 The foundation of this most extraordinary occurrence is
 taken from a passage in one of Maturin's Sermons, which is as
 follows: At this moment is there one of present, however, we
 may have departed from the Lord, disobeyed his will, and disre
 garded his word,—is there one of us who would, at this moment,
 accept all that man could bestow, or earth afford, to resign the
 hope of his salvation? There is not one—not such a fool on
 earth, were the Enemy of Mankind to traverse it with the offer.
 This passage, it seems, suggested the idea of a powerful and
 not sufficiently known, or duly appreciated novel,—Melmoth the
 Wanderer,-a work abounding with transcendent beauty, both
 of conception, of imagery, and of language: containing episode
 396
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 397
 of character and intensity of interest, scarcely, if at all, to be~
 equaled in the wide circle of romance; pictures of actual life
 nowhere to be found of equal and fearful effect. The novel itself
 possesses, to our best feelings, something of a still more im
 perative nature: its author, an exemplary, and we are bound to
 believe, a respected functionary of our religion, states distinctly
 in his preface, that he is compelled to write novels to insure the
 means of subsistence, denied him by the imposed poverty of his
 profession!
 On Melmoth, as Maturin has produced it, is founded a busy,
 showy, most expensive, and, we are bound to say, an effective
 drama, which the management of the Adelphi Theatre has chris
 tened Valmondi. ~
 The story hinges on the fearful, although somewhat hacknied
 circumstance in dramatic concerns, of an ambitious and self-willed
 mortal exchanging his eternal welfare for temporal power, and
 the uncontrolled means of enjoyment, by a league with the Arch
 Enemy. The main incidents of Melmoth are necessarily violently
 compressed in order to condense a story occupying four volumes
 into an entertainment of three hours, and for the character of
 originality, which, with all our liking of the Adelphi Theatre’s
 version, and our warmest good wishes, we consider need not have
 been so anxiously sought: it is, however, obtained, and most suc
 cessfully, and three hours of more rational and glowing delight
 can nowhere, perhaps, be spent in the presence of dramatic hor
 rors, than in this splendid little theatre.
 It would be difficult to give, within our limits, even a complete
 sketch, however slight, of this story, and with our splendid en
 graving, closely representing the‘last scene, and some extracts
 from the original story, in the glowing and energetic language of
 Maturin himself. The first of these is one which most impres
 sively describes the presence of the infernal spirit in the person
 of the condemned and self—immolated victim. The scene is a
 bridal feast. “The ceremony which Father Olavida had just been
 performing, had cast a shade over the good father’s countenance,
 which dispersed as he mingled among the guests. Room was soon
 made for him, and he happened accidentally to be seated opposite
 the Englishman (with Maturin, the victim of the E_'z/il One).
 As the wine was presented to him, Father Olavida, a man of
 singular sanctity, prepared to utter a short internal prayer. He
 hesitated—trembled—desisted; and, putting down the wine, wiped
 the drops from his forehead with the sleeve of his habit. His lips
 moved, as if in the effort to pronounce a benediction on the com
 pany, but the effort again failed, and the change in his countenance
 was so fearful, that it was perceived by all the guests. So strong
 was the anxiety with which the company watched him, that the
 only sound heard in that spacious and crowded hall was the rus
398
 THE OLD BOOK ‘OF MAGIC
 tling of his habit, as he attempted to lift the cup to his lips once
 more in vain. The guests sat in astonished silence. Father Ola
 vida alone remained standing; but at that moment the Englishman
 rose, and appeared determined to fix Olavida’s regards by a gaze
 like that of fascination. Olavida rocked, reeled, grasped the arm
 of a page, and at last, closing his eyes for a moment, as if to escape
 the horrible fascination of that unearthly glare (the Englishman's
 eyes were observed by all the guests, from the moment of his
 entrance, to effuse a most fearful and preternatural lustre), ex-'
 claimed, ‘Who is among us? Who? I cannot utter a blessing
 while he is here: I cannot feel one. Where he treads, the earth
 is parched! where he breathes, the air is fire! where he feeds, the
 food is poison! where he turns, his glance is lightning! Who is
 among us? Who?’ repeated the priest, in the agony of adjura
 tion, while his cowl fallen back, his few thin hairs around the scalp
 seemed alive with terrible emotion, his outspread arms, protruded
 from the sleeves of his habit, and extended towards the awful
 stranger, suggested the idea of an inspired being in the dreadful
 rapture of denunciation. He stood, still stood, and the English
 man, that unearthly being, stood calmly opposite him. ‘Who
 knows him?’ exclaimed Olavida, starting apparently from a
 trance: ‘who knows him? who brought him here?’
 “The guests severally disclaimed all knowledge of the extraor
 dinary visitor, and each asked the other in whispers, who had
 brought him there? Olavida then pointed his arm to each of the
 company, and asked him individually, ‘Do you know him?’ ‘No!
 no! no!’ was uttered with vehement emphasis by each individual.
 ‘But I know him,’ screamed Olavida, ‘by these cold drops!’ and he
 wiped them off; ‘by these convulsed joints!’ and he attempted to
 sign the cross, but could not. He raised his voice, and, evidently
 speaking with increased difficulty, ‘By this bread and wine, which
 the faithful receive as the body and blood of Christ, but which his
 presence converts into matter as viperous as the foam of the
 dying Judas,—by all these I know him, and command him to be
 gone! He is
 he is’
 and he bent forwards as he spoke, and
 gazed on the Englishman with an expression which the mixture
 of rage, hatred, and fear, rendered terrible. All the guests rose
 in affright and terror at these words.; the whole company now
 presented two singular groups, that of the amazed guests all col
 lected together, and repeating, ‘Who, what is he?’ and that of the
 terrific and unearthly Englishman, who still stood unmoved, and
 seemingly immovable as a rock; and Olavida himself, who dropped
 DEAD in the attitude of pointing to him.”
 Another passage, which our engraving illustrates, will suffi
 ciently elucidate our observations on this extraordinary piece: in
 the drama, it produces a stage effect really unique, and, for the
 extent of the theatre, we should speak but lightly of its merits,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 399
 were we to stop when we say it is unprecedented in its splendor,
 and unrivalled in its effect.
 “At the sound of their approach, he half started up, and de
 manded what was the hour. They told him. ‘My hour is come,’
 said the wanderer; ‘it is an hour you must neither partake nor
 witness: the clock of eternity is about to strike, but its knell must
 be unheard by mortal ears!’ As he spoke they approached nearer,
 and saw with horror the change the last few hours had wrought
 on him. The fearful lustre of his eyes had been deadened before
 their late interview ; but now the lines of extreme age were visible
 in every feature. His hairs were as white as snow, his mouth had
 fallen in, the muscles of his face were relaxed and withered,—he
 was the very image of hoary decrepit debility. He started himself
 at the impression which his appearance visibly made on the in
 truders. ‘You see what I feel,’ he exclaimed; ‘the hour then is
 come. I am summoned, and I must obey the summons—my
 master has other work for me! Men, retire! leave me alone.
 Whatever noises you hear in the course of the awful night that
 is approaching, come not near this apartment, at peril of your
 lives.
 Remember,’ raising his voice, which still retained all its
 powers, ‘remember, your lives will be the forfeit of your desperate
 curiosity. For the same stake I risked more than life, and lost it!
 Be warned, and retire!’ They retired, and passed the remainder
 of that day without even thinking of food, from that intense’and
 burning anxiety that seemed to prey on their very vitals. At
 night they retired, and, though each lay down, it was without a
 thought of repose: repose, indeed,'would have been impossible!
 The sounds that soon after midnight began to issue from the
 apartment of the wanderer, were at first of a description not to
 alarm, but they were now exchanged for others of indescribable
 horror. In a short time, the sounds became so terrible, that
 scarcely had the awful warning of the wanderer power to with
 hold them from attempting to burst into the room. These noises
 were of a mixed and most indescribable kind._ They could not
 distinguish whether they were the shrieks of supplication, or the
 yell of blasphemy: they hoped inwardly they might be the former.
 Towards morning the sounds suddenly ceased; they were stilled
 as in a moment. The silence that succeeded seemed to them, for
 a few moments, more terrible than all that preceded. After con
 sulting each other by a glance, they hastened together to the apart
 ment. They entered !—IT WAS EMPTY!—No'r A VESTIGE oF
 ITS LAST INHABITANT REMAINED, OR WAS TO BE TRACED WITHIN."
CHAPTER XXXI
 THESPECTREWIFE
 AGENTLEMAN of Bavaria, of a noble family, was so afflicted at
 the death of his wife, that, unable to bear the company of any
 other person, he gave himself entirely up to a solitary way of
 living. This was the more remarkable in him, as he had been a
 man of jovial habits, fond of his wine and visitors, and impatient
 of having his numerous indulgences contradicted. But in the same
 temper, perhaps, might be found the cause of his sorrow; for,
 though he would be impatient with his wife, as with others, yet
 he loved her, as one of the gentlest wills he had; and the sweet and
 unaffected face which she always turned round upon his anger
 might have been a thing more easy for him to trespass upon while
 living, than to forget when dead and gone. His very anger
 towards her, compared with that towards others, was a relief to
 him; and rather a wish to refresh himself in the balmy feeling of
 her patience, than to make her unhappy herself, or to punish her,
 as some would have done, for that virtuous contrast to his own
 V1Ce.
 But, whether he bethought himself, after her death, that this
 was a very selfish mode of loving; or whether, as some thought,
 400
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 401
 he had wearied out her life with habits so contrary to her own; or
 whether, as others reported, he had put it to a fatal risk by some
 lordly piece of self-will, in consequence of which she had caught
 a fever on the cold river during a night of festivity: he surprised
 even those who thought that he loved her, by the extreme bitter
 ness of his grief. The very mention of festivity, though he was
 patient for the first day or two, afterwards threw him into a pas
 sion of rage; but, by degrees, even his rage followed his other old
 habits. He was gentle, but ever silent. He ate and drank but
 sufficient to keep him alive; and used to spend the greater part of
 the day in the spot where his wife was buried.
 He was going there one evening, in a very melancholy manner,
 with his eyes turned towards the earth, and had just entered the
 rails of the burial-ground, when he was accosted by the mild
 voice of somebody coming to meet him. “It is a blessed evening,
 Sir,” said the voice. The gentleman looked up. Nobody but
 himself was allowed to be in the place at that hour; and yet he saw,
 with astonishment, a young chorister approaching him. He was
 going to express some wonder, when, he said, the modest though
 assured look of the boy, and the extreme beauty of his counte
 nance, which glowed in the setting sun before him, made an irre
 sistible addition to the singular sweetness of his voice; and he
 asked him, with an involuntary calmness, and a gesture of respect,
 not what he did there, but what he wished. “Only to wish you all
 good things,” answered the stranger, who had now come up; “and
 to give you this letter.” The gentleman took the letter, and saw
 upon it, with a beating yet scarcely bewildered heart, the hand
 writing of his wife. He raised his eyes again to speak to the boy,
 but he was gone. He cast them far and near round the place,
 but there were no traces of a passenger. He then opened the
 '
 letter, and, by the divine light of the setting sun, read these words:
 “To my dear husband, who sorrows for his wife.
 “Otto, my husband, the soul you regret so is returned. You
 will know the truth of this, and be prepared with calmness to see
 it, by the divineness of the messenger who has passed you. You
 will find me sitting in the public walk, praying for you; praying
 that you may never more give way to those gusts of passion, and
 those curses against others, which divided us.
 “This, with a warm hand, from the living BERTHA.”
 Otto (for such, it seems, was the gentleman’s name) went
 instantly, calmly, quickly, yet with a sort of benumbed being, to
 the public walk. He felt, but with only a half-consciousness, as
 if he glided without a body. But all his spirit was awake, eager,
 intensely conscious. It seemed to him as if there had been but
402
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 two things in the world,—Life and Death; and that Death was
 dead. All else appeared to have been a dream. He had awak
 ened from a waking state, and found himself all eye, and spirit,
 and loco-motion. He said to himself once, as he went,—“This is
 not a dream. I will ask my great ancestors tomorrow to my new
 bridal feast, for they are alive.” Otto had been calm at first, but
 something of old and triumphant feelings seemed again to come
 over him. Was he again too proud and confident? Did his
 earthly humors prevail again, when he thought them least upon
 him? We shall see.
 The Bavarian arrived at the public walk. It was full of people,
 with their wives and children, enjoying the beauty of the evening.
 Something like common fear came over him, as he went in and out
 among them, looking at the benches on each side. It happened
 that there was only one person, a lady, sittingupon them. She had
 her veil down: and his being underwent a fierce but short convul
 sion as he went near her. Something had a little baffled the
 calmer inspiration of the angel that had accosted him; for fear
 prevailed at the instant, and Otto passed on. He returned before
 he had reached the end of the walk, and approached the lady
 again. She was still sitting in the same quiet posture, only he
 thought she looked at him. Again he passed her. On his second
 return, a grave and sweet courage came upon him, and, in an
 under but firm tone of inquiry, he said, “Bertha?” “I thought
 you had forgotten me,” said that well-known and mellow voice,
 which he had seemed as far from ever hearing again, as earth is
 from heaven. He took her hand, which grasped his in turn, and
 they walked home in silence together, the arm which was wound
 within his giving warmth for warmth.
 The neighbors seemed to have a miraculous want of wonder at
 the lady's reappearance. Something was said about a mock fu
 neral, and her having withdrawn from his company for a while;
 but visitors came as before, and his wife returned to her household
 affairs. It was only remarked that she always looked pale and
 pensive. But she was more kind to all, even than before; and her
 pensiveness seemed rather the result of some great internal
 thought, than of unhappiness.
 For a year or two the Bavarian retained the better temper
 which he had acquired. His fortunes flourished beyond his earli
 est ambition: the most amiable as well as noble persons of the
 district were frequent visitors; and people said that, to be at Otto's
 house must be the next thing to being in heaven. But, by degrees,
 his self-will returned with his prosperity. He never vented im
 patience on his wife; but he again began to show that the dis
 quietude it gave her to see it vented on others was a secondary
 thing in his mind to the indulgence of it. Whether it was, that
 his grief for her loss had been rather remorse than affection, and
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 403
 so he held himself secure if he treated her well, or whether he was
 at all times rather proud of her than fond, or whatever was the
 cause which again set his antipathies above his sympathies, certain
 it was, that his old habits returned upon him: not so often indeed,
 but with greater violence and pride, when they did. These were
 the only times at which his wife was observed to show any ordi
 nary symptoms of uneasiness.
 At length, one day, some strong rebuff which he had received
 from an alienated neighbor threw him into such a transport of
 rage, that he gave way to the most bitter imprecations, crying with
 a loud voice—"This treatment to me, too? To me! To me, who,
 if the world knew all”—At these words, his wife, who had in vain
 laid her hand upon his, and looked him with dreary earnestness in
 the face, suddenly glided from the room. He, and two or three
 who were present, were struck with a dumb horror. They said
 she did not walk out, but suddenly vanished.
CHAPTER XXXII
 THE MIDNIGHT STORM
 Of Evil Spirits that walk
 At dead of night, and clank their chains, and wave
 The torch of hell around the murderer’s bed.
 ON the evening of the 12th of June, —, a joyous party was
 assembled at Monsieur de Montbrun’s chateau to celebrate the
 marriage of his nephew, who had, in the morn of that day, led to
 the altar the long-sought object of his fond attachment. The
 mansion, which was on this occasion the scene of merriment, was
 situated in the province of Gascony, at no very great distance
 from the town of
 .
 It was a venerable building, erected during the war of the
 League, and consequently discovered in its exterior some traces
 of that species of architecture which endeavored to unite strength
 and massiveness with domestic comfort. Situated in a romantic,
 but thinly-peopled district, the family of Monsieur de Montbrun
 was compelled principally to rely on itself for amusement and
 society. This family consisted of the chevalier, an old soldier of
 blunt but hospitable manners; his nephew, the bridegroom, whom
 (having no male children) he had adopted as his son,andMademoi
 selle Emily, his only daughter: the latter was amiable, frank, and
 generous; warm in her attachments, but rather romantic in form
 ing them. Employed in rural sports and occupations, and particu
 larly attached to botany, for which the country around afforded an
 inexliaustible field, the chevalier and his inmates had not much
 cultivated the intimacy of the few families which disgust of the
 world, or other motives, had planted in this retired spot. Occa
 sional visits, exchanged with the nearest of their neighbors, some
 times enlivened their small circle; and with the greater part of
 those who lived at a distance, they were scarcely acquainted even
 by name.
 _
 The approaching nuptials, however, of Theodore (which was
 the name of Monsieur de Montbrun’s adopted son) excited con
 siderable conversation in the adjacent district: and the wedding of
 her cousin, it was determined by Emily, should not pass off unac
 companied by every festivity which the nature of their situation,
 and the joyfulness of the event, would allow. On this occasion,
 therefore, inquiries were made as to all the neighboring gentry
 within a considerable distance around; and there were none of the
 least note neglected in the invitations, which were scattered in all
 404
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTs
 405
 directions. Many persons were consequently present, with whose
 persons and character the host and his family were unacquainted:
 some also accepted the summons, who were strangers to them
 even by name.
 Emily was attentive and courteous to all; but to one lady in
 particular she attached herself, during the entertainment, with
 most sedulous regard. Madame de Nunez, the immediate object
 of Emily's care, had lately settled in the neighborhood, and had
 hitherto studied to shun society. It was supposed that she was
 the widow of a Spanish officer of the Walloon guards, to whom
 she had been fondly attached; indeed so much so, that, notwith
 standing he had been dead several years, the lady never appeared
 but in deep mourning. She had only lately settled in Gascony;
 but her motives for retiring from Spain, and fixing on the French
 side of the Pyrenees, were notknown, and but slightly conjectured.
 Isabella de Nunez was about twenty-eight years of age, tall, and
 well-formed: her countenance was striking, nay even handsome;
 but a nice physiognomist would have traced in her features evi
 dence of the stronger passions of human nature. He would have
 seen pride softened by distress, and would have fancied, at times,
 that the effects of some concealed crime were still evident in her
 knit brow and retiring eye, when she became the object of marked
 scrutiny.
 She had never before entered the chateau de Montbrun, and
 her person had hitherto been unnoticed by Emily; but who, having
 now seen her, devoted herself with ardor to her new friend. The
 lady received the attentions of her amiable hostess with grateful
 but dignified reserve.
 The morning had been extremely sultry, and an oppressive
 sensation in the air, which disordered respiration, threw, as the
 day closed, an air of gloom over the company, ill suited to the
 occasion of their meeting. Madame de Nunez appeared, more
 than any one else, to feel the effects of the lurid atmosphere; the
 occasional sparks of gaiety which she had discovered gradually
 disappeared; and before the day had entirely closed she seemed
 at times perfectly abstracted, and at other times to start with
 causeless apprehension. In order to divert or dispel this increas
 ing uneasiness, which threatened to destroy all the pleasure of the
 festival, dancing was proposed; and the enlivening sounds of the
 music in a short time dissipated the temporary gloom. The
 dancing had not, however, long continued, ere the expected storm
 burst in all its fury on the chateau: the thunder, with its continued
 roar, reverberated by the adjoining mountains, caused the utmost
 alarm in the bosom of the fair visitors; the torrents of rain which
 fell might almost be said to swell the waters of the neighboring
 Garonne, whilst sheets of lightning, reflected on its broad waves,
 gave a deeper horror to the pitchy darkness which succeeded. The
406
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 continuance of the storm gradually wound up the apprehensions
 of the greater part of the females to horror; and they took refuge
 in the arched vaults and long subterranean passages which
 branched beneath the chateau, from the vivid glare of the light
 ning: although unable to shut their ears to the reiterated claps of
 thunder which threatened to shake the building to its foundations.
 In this general scene of horror, Isabella alone appeared unap
 palled. The alternate abstraction and alarm, which before seemed
 to harrass her mind, had now vanished, and had given place to a
 character of resignation which might almost be considered as
 bordering on apthy; while the younger females yielded without
 resistance to the increasing horrors of the tempest, and by frequent
 shrieks and exclamations of dread bore testimony to the terror
 excited in their bosoms by the aggravated circumstances of the
 scene, she suffered no symptom of apprehension to be visible in
 her now unvarying features. Agitation‘had yielded to quiet: she
 sat ostensibly placid; but her apparent inattention was evidently
 not the effect of tranquillity, but the result of persevering exertion.
 The hour was approaching towards midnight; and the storm,
 instead of blowing over, having increased in violence, the hos
 pitable owner of the mansion proposed to his guests, that they
 should abandon the idea of returning home through the torrents
 of rain, which had already deluged the country, and rendered the
 roads in the vicinity impassable; but should accommodate them
 selves, with as little difficulty as possible, to the only plan now
 to be devised,—of making themselves easy during the remainder
 of this dismal night. Although his mansion was not extensive,
 yet he proposed (with the aid of temporary couches, and putting
 the ladies to the inconvenience of sleeping two in each room) to
 render the party as comfortable as his means would allow; and
 which would, at all events, be more agreeable than braving abroad
 the horrors of the tempest.
 Reasonable as such a plan was in itself, it was still more
 strongly recommended by the circumstance, that the carriages
 which were expected to convey the parties to their respective
 abodes had not arrived; and, from the state of the roads, and the
 continuance of the still pitiless storm, it seemed visionary to expect
 them.
 The party, therefore, yielded without regret to the offered
 arrangement, save with one dissenting voice. The fair Spaniard
 alone positively declined the offered accommodation. Argument
 in vain was used for a considerable space of time to detain her:
 she positively insisted on returning home; and would alone, in
 the dark, have faced the storm, had not an obstacle which appeared
 invincible militated against her resolve; this was too imperious
 to be resisted—her carriage and servants were not arrived; and,
 from the representation of Monsieur de Montbrun’s domestics
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 407
 (some of whom had been ‘detached to examine the condition of
 the neighboring roads), it was perfectly clear, that with that part
 of the district in which she resided no communication could for
 several hours take place. Madame de Nunez, therefore, at length
 yielded to necessity; although the pertinacity of her resistance had
 already excited much surprise, and called forth innumerable
 conjectures.
 The arrangements between the respective parties were soon
 made, and the greater part of the ladies gladly retired to seek
 repose from the harrassing events of the day. Emily, who had not
 relaxed in her marked attention to her interesting friend, warmly
 pressed her to share her own room, in which a sofa had been pre
 pared as a couch, and to which she herself insisted on retiring,
 while Madame de Nunez should take possession of the bed. The
 latter, however, again strenuously objected to this plan, asserting,
 that she should prefer remaining all night in one of the sitting
 rooms, with no other companion than a book. She appeared
 obstinately to adhere to this resolution, until Emily politely, yet
 positively, declared, that were such the intention of her new
 friend, she would also join her in the saloon, and pass the time
 in conversation until the day should break, or until Madame’s
 servants should arrive. This proposition, or rather determination,
 was received by the frowning Isabella with an air of visible chagrin
 and disappointment, not altogether polite. She expressed her
 unwillingness that Mademoiselle should be inconvenienced, with
 some peevishness; but which, however, soon gave place to her
 former air of good-breeding.
 She now appeared anxious to hurry to her room; and the rest
 of the party having some time retired, she was escorted thither
 by the ever attentive Emily. No sooner had they reached the
 chamber, than Isabella sunk into a chair; and, after struggling
 for some time ‘in evident emotion for utterance, at length
 exclaimed :—
 “Why, dearest Emily, would you insist on sharing with me the
 horrors of this night? To me the punishment is a merited one:
 but to you”—
 “What, my dearest madam, do you say?” replied Emily affec
 tionately—“The terrors of the night are over: the thunder appears
 retiring, and the lightning is less vivid; and see the west (added
 she, as she went to the window) there are still some remains of the
 summer twilight. Do not any longer, then, suffer the apprehen
 sions of the storm which has passed over us to disturb the repose
 which you will, I hope, so shortly enjoy.”
 “Talk you of repose!” said Madame de Nunez, in a voice
 almost choked with agitation—“Know you not, then, that on the
 anniversary of this horrid night ?—but what am I saying?—to
 you, at present, all this is mystery; too soon your own feelings
408
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 will add conviction to the terrible experience which six revolving
 years have afforded me, and which, even now, but to think on
 harrows up my soul. But no more”—
 Then darting suddenly towards the door, which had hitherto
 remained ajar, she closed it with violence ; and, locking it, withdrew
 the key, which she placed in her own pocket.—Emily had scarcely
 time to express her surprise at this action and the apparent dis
 traction which accompanied it, ere Madam de Nunez seized both
 her hands with more than female strength, and with a maddened
 voice and eye straining on vacancy, exclaimed :—
 “Bear witness, ye powers of terror! that I imposed not this
 dreadful scene on the female whose oath must now secure her
 silence.”
 Then staring wildly on Mademoiselle de Montbrun, she con
 tinued:
 ‘Why, foolish girl, wouldst thou insist on my partaking thy
 bed? The viper might have coiled in thy bosom; the midnight
 assassin might have aimed his dagger at thy breast—but the poison
 of the one would have been less fatal, and the apprehension of
 instant annihilation from the other would have been less
 oppressive, than the harrowing scene which thou art doomed this
 night to witness—doomed, I say'; for all the powers of hell, whose
 orgies you must behold, cannot release you from the spectacle
 which you have voluntarily sought.”
 “To what am I doomed!” cried Emily, whose fears for herself
 were lessened in the dread she felt for her friend’s intellects, which
 she supposed were suddenly become affected by illness, or from
 the incidents of the past day.
 Isabella, after a silence of several minutes, during which she
 .endeavored to recover some degree of composure, in a softened
 but determined voice, said :—
 “Think not, my friend (if I may use that endearing expression
 to one whose early prospects and happier days I am unwillingly
 condemned to blast), that disorder has produced the agitation
 which, spite of myself, you have witnessed.—Alas! great as have
 been my sorrows, and heavy as my crime weighs upon me, my
 reason has still preserved its throne: to seek oblivion in idiocy—
 to bury the remembrance of my fatal error in temporary derange
 ment—would, I might almost say, be. happiness to me. But fate
 has forbidden such an alleviation, and my impending destiny,
 which is not to be guarded against by precaution, cannot be avoided
 by repentance.”
 “Nay,” said Emily, “exaggerated as your self-condemnation
 makes the fault to which you allude appear, in religion you may
 f
 ind a solace which could efface crimes of much deeper dye than
 any with which you can possibly charge yourself.”
 “Ah! no,” replied the fair Spaniard.—“Religion, it is true,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 409
 holds out her benignant hand to receive the wandering sinner ;—
 she offers to the stranger a home; she welcomes to her bosom the
 repentant though blood-stained criminal ;—but for crimes like
 mine, what penitence can atone ?—But we waste time,” added she;
 “the midnight hour approaches; and ere the clock in the turret
 f
 irst announces that dreaded period, much must be done.”
 Thus saying, she went into an adjoining oratory, and, finding
 on the little altar at which Emily offered her daily orisons, an
 ivory crucifix, she returned with it in her hand, and again seizing
 and forcibly graspingithe hand of her now really alarmed hostess,
 she exclaimed in a hollow, yet determined voice :—
 “Swear, that whatsoever you may this night, this eventful
 night, be a witness to, not all the apprehensions of hell, not all your
 hopes of heaven, shall tempt you to reveal, until I am committed
 to the silent tomb—Swear !”
 Emily for a moment hesitated to adopt an oath imposed under
 circumstances of such an extraordinary nature : but whilst she was
 debating, Madame de Nunez, more violently grasping her hand,
 exclaimed, in a voice harsh from agitation :—
 “Swear; or dread the event!”
“Swear!” Emily fancied she heard echoed from the oratory.
 Almost sinking with horror, she faintly repeated the solemn oath,
 which the frantic female, whose character appeared so perfectly
 changed, dictated to her.
 She had no sooner thus solemnly bound herself to silence, than
 Madame de Nunez’s agitation appeared to subside; she replaced
 the crucifix on the altar, and sinking on her knees before the chair
 in which Emily, almost void of animation, was seated, she feebly
 exclaimed :—
 “Pardon, dearest Emily, the madness of my conduct; necessity
 has dictated it towards you; and your wayward fate, and not your
 suffering friend,is answerable for it. For six longyears have Icon
 f
 ined to my ownbosom the horror which we this night must jointly
 witness. On the anniversary of this day—But I dare not yet com
 municate the dreadful event; some hours hence I may recover com
 posure to relate it: but remember your oath. While I live, the
 secret is buried in your bosom. You must have remarked my un
 willingness to remain in your dwelling; you could not have been
 inattentive to my repugnance to share your room—too soon you
 will have a dreadful explanation of the cause. Be not angry with
 me—I must endeavor to conceal the circumstances which appal
 my soul; I must still preserve the respect of society, although I
 have for ever forfeited my own—hence the oath I have imposed
 on you. But”—
 Here further conversation was interrupted by the sound of the
 turret clock, which began to strike the hour of midnight. It had
 scarcely finished, ere the slow rolling of a carriage was heard in
410
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 the paved court-yard ; at the noise of which, Madame de Nunez
 started from the posture in which she had continued at the feet
 of Emily, and rushed towards the door, which she had previously
 locked. Emily now heard heavy footsteps ascending the oaken
 staircase; and before she could recall her recollection, which so
 singular a circumstance had bewildered, the door of the room in
 which they were sitting, spite of its fastening, slowly moved on its
 hinges; and in the next minute Emily sunk on the earth in a state
 of stupefaction.
 It is well for the human frame, that, when assailed by circum
 stances too powerful to support, it seeks shelter in oblivion. The
 mind recoils from the horrors which it cannot meet, and is driven
 into insensibility.
 At an early hour of the ensuing morning Madame de Nunez
 quitted Monsieur de Montbrun’s chateau, accompanied by her
 servants, whom the retiring torrents had permitted to await their
 mistress’s commands. She took a hasty farewell of the master of
 the mansion, and, without making any inquiries as to the rest of
 the party, departed.
 At the usual hour for breakfast, Emily did not appear; and her
 father at length went to her room door, and, receiving no answer to
 his inquiries, went in. Judge his horror, when he discovered his
 daughter lying on the bed in the clothes she had worn the preced
 ing day, but in a state of apparent insensibility. Immediate medical
 assistance was procured, and she at length disclosed symptoms of
 returning life; but no sooner had she recovered her recollection,
 than, looking with horror and affright around her, she again
 relapsed into a state of inanimation. Repeated cordials being
 administered, she was again restored to life; but only to become
 a victim of a brain-fever, which in a few days put a period to her
 existence. In a short interval of recollection, in the early part of
 illness, she confided what we have here related to her father: but
 conscientiously kept from his knowledge what she was bound by
 her oath to conceal. The very remembrance of what she had wit
 nessed on that fatal night hurried her into delirium, and she fell a_
 victim to the force of recollection.
 Madame de Nunez did not long survive her: but expired under
 circumstances of unexampled horror.
CHAPTER XXXIII
 THE POWEROFASTRAL INFLUENCES
 OVER INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES AND NATIONS
 THE ADVANTAGE OF CONSULTING CELESTIAL
 AND ASTRAL OMENS
 There is a disposition, in almost every person of every class,
 to monopolize, as far as each is able, the good things of this world ;
 but, in the means of effecting it, the richer have infinitely the best
 of it over the poorer. This would be all fair enough if they would
 practice their manoeuvres more fairly : but they do things so studi
 ously sly and artful, that it is scarcely possible for common folks
 to be anything like even with them. The great complaint that I
 have against them is, that, almost unexceptionably, they are con
 demning publicly in others that which they are privately practicing
 in their closets; and, by way of reconciling conscience to certain
 underhand practices, and to saying one thing and doing the con
 trary, they take care to call everything they say and do, in over
 reaching one another, by the term policy; which word, though
 it covers almost every mortal crime you can mention, does not
 411 '
.412
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 happen to have been entered down in the black catalogue; so
 that your political sinners are altogether exempt from the penalties
 of absolution. Now we will put a case, by way of instancing the
 truth of the proposition which led me to these remarks, namely,
 the upper-hand which the great have of their inferiors in getting
 into their clutches the good things of this world.
 RICH RULERS CONSULT PENDING OMENS
 The greatest rulers, and statesmen, and chiefs, of the present
 age, are unanimous in setting all their emissaries to cry down as
 trology as incompatible with sense and reason, and everything else
 that is esteemed good. And what do you suppose the meaning of
 this dexterous, yet over-cunning game is ?—-Why, nothing more
 nor less but to engross to themselves the advantages of exclusively
 consulting a science alone capable of instructing them when to
 bring forward their measures with the most certain prospect of
 success; and when to forbear, and avoid precarious schemes and
 enterprises; and if those to whom such crafty wights are opposed
 happen not to be aware of the astrological advantage taken of
 them, they are as good as beaten before they meet their adversary.
 Bonaparte was famous in this sort of forehand advantage, and
 always took care to have at his elbow adepts of a first-rate order
 in the horoscopic principle: but though he was so addicted to
 chicanery, yet he is said to have been manly and honorable in his
 application of the occult sciences. The extraordinary strides of the
 Corsican adventurer towards the summit of earthly fame, and his
 complete attainment of his ambitious object, was, as I am able to
 prove, more owing to the sage forecast of his chief astrologer than
 to the capacities of his own mind, or the w‘isdom of his adminis
 trations: and it was from acting in direct opposition to the adviser
 who had been the chief instrument of his elevation, that he, in the
 end, sunk beneath disasters.-—Having surmounted with his throne
 to the highest pinnacle of the world, at taking his seat upon it
 he saw himself so environed with vasal kingdoms, that he fancied
 even fate could not upset him; and, growing giddy with the vani
 ties that dazzled him on his lofty seat, he lost sight of his obliga
 tions to astrology, persisting in the pursuit of projects in down
 right defiance of the inauspicious posture of his stars, instead of
 waiting patiently in his palace, as warned by his discreet philoso
 pher, until the virulence of the unfortunate aspect was abated;
 and we all know well enough what was the consequence.
 SIGNS UNDER Wrncn HARRIs’s BALLOON ASCENDED
 But without going to times past and foreign countries for
 instances of the consequences of neglecting astrological precaution,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 413
scarcely a day passes over that does not furnish the observer of
 signs with some sorrowful case which a little foresight might
 serve to prevent: and it is with the most philanthropic sensibility
 that I advert to a circumstance illustrative of astrological influence
 over individuals. While I sympathize with his dearest friends in
 lamenting the untimely death of Mr. Harris, who, when he as
 cended into the clouds in his balloon, bade them, and the thousands
 whose cheers accompanied him, farewell for ever, I feel it neces
 sary to say, for the good of other intrepid and enterprising candi
 The Famous Harris Balloon
 dates for popular applause, that no gallant adventurer should have
 exposed himself to a danger that admitted of delay, under the
 fatal prognostics that were pending. The planet Jupiter came into
 the point of the Dragon's Tail in the ominous sign Cancerbut a few
 hours preceding the ascent; the planet having been, at the precise
 moment of his baleful transit of the node, in a partial square with
 the moon. This anyone, who understands the least of the science,
 will say is enough: for there are records of all ages to testify, that
 such an aspect could not be expected to pass by without leaving
 behind it many fresh examples of its fatality; and a forewarning
 which portends death, or indeed accidental mischance, should not
 be tempted, on any consideration, by those who embark in aerial
 expeditions.—The reason I give of the life of his fair companion
 having been so wonderfully preserved, is, that Venus, Georgium
 Sidus, and Mars, being mutually in trine with one another, was a
414
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 most lucky aspect for her, as a female, and foreshadowed her
 recovery.*
 OMENS BY WHICH A DEATH WAS PRE-FIGURED
 From the intellectual summit which Lord Byron had gained—
 from the purely liberal principles which he sought to diffuse—and
 from the active share he had taken in restoring the freedom of
 oppressed Greece, it isnot to be supposed that a character so dis
 tinguished would be suddenly called off for ever from the theatre ‘
 of glory, in which he was playing so honorable a part, without
 some signally portentous omen.
 ‘
 Though his constitution had previously faltered, it Was not
 until the 9th of April, that any prognostics of a serious nature
 manifested themselves. From the 9th to the 19th of April, on
 which day he died, violent inflammations of the chest appear to
 have rapidly increased; and some phenomena of rather an extraor
 dinary nature presented themselves, during the course of the four
 teen days prior to his death, which pretty strongly bespoke the sor
 rowful result. The quartile of the Sun and Georgiurn Sidus on the
 5th, from the cardinal signs Aries and Capricorn, if we consider
 England as under Aries, and Greece as under Capricorn, is an as
 “At the time Mr. Harris ascended in his balloon, May 25th, 1824, four hours,
 nine minutes, p. m., the sign Libra arose in the horizon, and Saturn was in the house
 of Death, with Venus, lady of the Ascendant, and significator of the aéronaut, applying
 to the fatal conjunction of this l_)aneful_ star, who also ruled the fourth house, and thus
 plainly showed the fatal conclusion which took place!
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 415
 pect well worthy to be remarked. We should, moreover, in looking
 at this position, observe, that the Georgium planet is in the house
 of Saturn and exaltation of Mars, opposed to Jupiter in his exalta
 tion of Gemini; Jupiter being at the same time in occultation by the
 Moon, applying to the Dragon’s Tail; which is even in itself an
 omen of very fatal nature, and of very rare occurrence. Jupiter,
 though not closely besieged, is still attacked on either side by the
 infortunes Saturn and Mars, the latter being retrograde; which is
 altogether as violent a combination of aspects as could well prevail.
 We have still, in addition to these, the conjunction of the Sun and
 Mercury on the 12th, in Aries: which combust synod is strongly
 indicative of fever. These I point out as the leading aspects from
 which a judgment must be drawn. Although, no doubt, they had
 each more or less effect in producing the calamity; yet, I consider
 the nature of the disease, and the peculi_ar influence of the sign
 Cancer, and of the planet Jupiter in that sign, on the viscera, lungs,
 blood, and so forth—when I still farther take the interposition of
 the Moon in that sign, eclipsing Jupiter—-experience authorizes me
 to regard this as the fatal omen, and to say, that death would not
 have ensued had not this aspect prevailed in combination with
 those before specified.
 28e! ant: the Bragnn
 In the first ages of science and learning men could not write
 down what they wanted to remember, because letters had not been
 invented; and their way of commemorating things was, by draw
 ing pictures of the things themselves, or by emblems, that con
 veyed an idea of what they wished to record through some myste
 rious representation; and those emblems used in astrology were
 called by the general term signs. Hence, in those days, the astrol
 '
 oger carried on the whole system of his science by a system of
 mysterious signs; and this is the reason why each of the several
 divisions of the starry heavens is, to the present hour, called by
 astronomers, a sign.
 N0 person possessing the least knowledge of history requires to
 be told, that the Babylonians were one of the earliest people who
 carried the science of astrology to any degree of eminence; and,
 about 2400 years ago, when the Jews were carried captive into
 that country, the nation was deeply corrupted with idolatry, and
 the chief deity they worshipped was called Bel. The history also
 informs us, that, “in that same place there was a great dragon
 which they of Babylon worshipped.” Now I am goingto show you
 that this Bel, and this Dragon, were nothing more originally than
 astrological emblems, or devices, or hieroglyphics, used for the
 same purpose as we use words. But, wonderful as it may seem to
416
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 us in our time, it is, nevertheless, a fact, that the priests of those
 days were very fond of what is commonly called “good living”;
 and, for the sake of securing it snugly to themselves, they suc
 ceeded in making the king and people believe, that Bel and the
 Dragon were the only deities of the world.
 THE BABYLONIAN DEITY “BEi.." Wno HE WAs,
 AND WHAT HE WAs
 The best authority which the present age affords concerning
 the mythology of the most ancient times upon which we can look
 back, is furnished by the author of “Sabaean Researches,” a work
 recently published, and which cannot fail to rank “among the
 richest ornaments of the British press, from the choice and sterling
 worth which it contains relative to the arts, the sciences, the cus
 toms, and the records of nations long since extinct, and almost
 in oblivion. “The construction,” says this author, “of the word
 Beelus is, I believe, neither exactly Chaldean, Cufic, Arabic, nor
 Hebrew.”—“By most scholars the radix is allowed to have been
 Beel, Bel, or Baal; which is, in fact, the same word varied by the
 different dialectic pronunciations of the several Sabaean nations;
 of which Mede says, that Bel was the local orthodox pronunciation
 of Babylon and Chaldea; whilst Baal appears to have been that of
 the Canaanites and Hebrews”—“being equivalent of Dominus
 of the Latin, and to the word Lord of our own.”—“The Greek
 mythologists appear,” says he, “to have elaborated from this Lord
 or chief of the Sabaean idolatry, both Jupiter and Apollo, the
 former as king of heaven, the latter as the local deity of the sun.
 And this is accounted for without the least circumlocution, and
 without room for the least suspicion of the sophistries of schol
 astic refinement, when we recollect, that THE SUN, and THE KING
 oF HEAVEN, were one and the same at Babylon.” Thus we are
 _
 led to understand, that the image worshipped by the Babylonians,
 under the tile of BEL, was THE PERSONIFIED CHIEF or THE HEAV
 ENLY BoDIEs,—The Sun.
 ASTROLOGICAL DRAGON WoRsH1PED AT BABYLON
 Although it is very well known to astronomers and learned
 persons, that the path of the moon through the firmament has,
 from time immemorial, been symbolized by a dragon or serpent,
 yet many through whose hands this work may be expected to pass,
 cannot be supposed to have any notion of these ancient symbols; ‘
 it therefore becomes necessary to make mention of them in such a
 manner as to let every one understand their application. That no
 emblem could have been fixed upon to symbolize the moon’s path,
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 417
 which is really serpentine, and to have done it more appropriately,
 than a serpent, will become evident to the least learned, by inspec
 tion of the following little cut and references.
 Suppose the curve line A B to represent a portion of the ecliptic
 or orbit of the earth, along which let the earth be supposed to be
 moving from E to F, and from F to G, while, at the same time, the
 moon, keeping nearly an equal distance from the earth, moves
 along the serpentine described by the body of the dragon, from
 c to H, from H to 1, from I to D1 at c, where the moon crosses the
 line of the earth’s orbit, from north to south, is the Dragon’s Tail,
 marked in modern astronomy thus, 23; and having made the
 semicircle c H, it ascends, crossing the earth’s orbit from south to
 north, where it bends again in the semicircle H I; and having
 reached the earth’s orbit again, it bends forward in the direction
 of the curve I D, where, as it is again ascending into the north, I
 place the Dragon’s Head; and thus you see how very appropri
 ately the moon's path about the earth may be denoted by a serpent
 or dragon. For the sake of showing the application of the emblem
 the more perfectly, it is here continued to four points of the eclip
 tic; but let_ it be understood, that in every descent of the moon
 from north to south, she is in the tail, and in every ascent from
 south to north, in the head of the dragon. The most important
 astrological significations are attached to the head and tail of this
 emblematic dragon; and hence it was deemed by the Bab lonian
 priesthood a fit object to promote superstition, and to e ect the
 purposes of that sort of imposture which it was their desire to
 accomplish in those oriental nations.
 ’ DISEASE PREDICTED
 Some of the signs before us indicate that nervous complaints,
 with excessive debility and languor—also affections of the stomach
 and bowels, are disorders that will be likely to come on during the
 ensuing year; and if they are accompanied with changes of the
 body from heat to shivering, and alternately from flushings to
 paleness, these attacks should be treated with the greatest skill
 and attention; as various humors of the system are shown to be
 increasing, and, if not speedily removed, a long state of disease is
 likely to ensue in cases where the constitution is delicate.
418
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 * *
 KING RHEO RHIO AND QUEEN KAMCHAMEHA.
 REFLECTIONS ARISING FROM A SIGHT OF THESE STRANGERS.
 Theappearance of these extraordinary personages in this coun
 try is an event which, look upon it as we may, furnishes matter of
 curious reflection. Fifty years ago we were not acquainted with
 any such kingdom, or any such race of men. When Cook paid
 them a visit, perhaps it was the first they had ever had from the
 civilized world: and living, as they do, amidst the dreary ocean,
 how great must be their surprise at viewing the monstrous scene
 before them. When discovered, they had, it may be said, then
 emerged from barbarism; for, though in a state of nature, nearly,
 with regard to dress, they had a government something such as
 we may fancy the original patriarchal to have been—paternal on
 the one part, and filial on the other. Their religion seems to have
 been conducted by a priesthood resembling the old druidical; and,
 like theirs, to have been mixed with sacrificing; on some occa
 sions, with sacrificing human victims. Horrid as these rites seem
 to us, they prevailed throughout all the original colonies of
 Scythia, which, at one time, so spread themselves over the earth.
 as to include almost every people; and from which stock the
 remote isles of the South Seas and Great Pacific Ocean bespeak
 their inhabitants to have descended. The short term of the last
 forty years may have afforded these distantly isolated people the
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 419
 opportunity of holding some little intercourse with nations whose
 habits and manners have been artificially inculcated; yet these
 interviews cannot greatly have affected their prejudices to their
 own customs; so that we may look upon them as very curious
 specimens of human nature, and as a part of the most genuine
 remains of the first races of mankind, descended from an expe
 rienced ancestry, that the whole circumference of the world
 could set before us.
 INTERVIEW WITH KING RHEO RHIO
 Such curious exotics as this emperor and empress were,
 would necessarily attract the attention of “the Astrologer,”
 whose travels are taken for the purpose of making remarks on
 persons and things out of the common way. He therefore took
 the opportunity of paying his respects to his Sandwich Eminency,
 at the British Museum. It is very difficult to get at the nativities
 of persons so remotely borii, because, in the first place, their
 modes of keeping time are different from our’s ; and again, the
 difference of longitude, unless chronometers of a like kind were
 used_to mark the time of birth, and geographical distance, or some
 means equally correct, the problem could not, at the best, be
 solved very satisfactorily. The only means, therefore, of com
 ing at any astrological conclusions must be by the exterior, and
 by scientific associations of the aspects preceding their coming
 to this country.
 ‘
420
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 Qstrulogital Zlnterpretation ®£ Qlibe fiigits
 THAT SEEM TO HAVE BROUGHT HITHER THESE
 ROYAL ISLANDERS, AND SHOW WHY THEY CAME
 Astrology will only serve to partially inform us why this unpre
 cedented embassage should arrive in England from the Great
 Pacific Ocean. Jupiter entered the sign Cancer, his house of
 exaltation, the first of the watery triplicity, on the 31st of July,
 1823_ at six o’clock in the afternoon, and continued to keep pos
 session of it until the 18th of August, 1824. Mars, essentially
 dignified as sole governor of this triplicity, entered the same sign
 Cancer a week before Jupiter, the sun having resigned possession
 of it on the 23d of the same month. It is to be observed, that this
 is the sign which denotes great seas, and previously, only a few
 days, to their entering it, a conjunction of Jupiter and Mars took
 place in Gemini, which rules America, including the more western
 islands. These aspects may well be looked upon as governing the_
 project of the voyage. On the 9th of December, about the prob
 able time of their entering upon their voyage, Venus promotes it
 by entering Scorpio, the second of the watery triplicity, and
 unites the queen to the expedition. But a new orb now makes its
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 421
 appearance, coming into conjunction with Venus in December,—
 I mean the comet which then became visible to us in these lati
 tudes, and passed with such extraordinary rapidity from the
 southern into the higher regions of the northern hemisphere;
 having described, during the space of the two months that it
 continued visible, a whole quadrant of a great circle of the sphere.
 These concomitant and very extraordinary aspects, together with
 some others of minor import, contributed, no doubt, to cause the
 voyage of these sovereigns from one side of the world to the
 other,—an event which then caused great speculation as to the
 true cause of their visit.
 OBSERVATIONS APPERTAINING TO THE PRESENT
 PLACE OF SATURN, THE GREATER INFORTUNE
 As all the standard treatises upon astrology were written be
 fore the discovery of Georgium Sidus, the orbit of Saturn was
 always supposed to be the highest, or that seated next the fixed
 stars. Owing to his distance from the Sun, his motion is slow;
 but from this circumstance he is very powerful in his effects;
 and, except by some who build partial systems of astrology, he
 has ever been considered, from the severity of his action, a most
 malevolent planet, and has consequently been termed the greater
 infortune.
 His effect upon the minds of such as are born under his in
 f
 luence is found, from experience, to be certain in making them
 reserved, melancholy, fretful, repining, suspicious, covetous, and
 disposed to look at the worst side of every thing. They are seldom
 very fortunate in their undertakings, though very laborious and
 deliberate. They are commonly persons neither very ingenious
 nor active ;—capable of sincere attachment to those they think
 their friends ; but very unforgiving, and even inclined to do ill, to
 their enemies.
 If Saturn be oriental, he is said to make the native more stout,
 tall, and hairy, than when he is occidental: and having north lati
 tude, subjects under him are still more strong, bony, corpulent,
 and hairy, than when his latitude is south. The disorders which
 he insinuates into the constitutions of those over whose birth he
 rules, are agues, apoplexies, black jaundice, atrophy, catarrh,
 phthisis, epilepsy, tooth-ache, palsy, dropsy, leprosy, fistula, nerv
 ous diseases, and some others which proceed from coldness and
 obstructions. _ His place in a nativity is unfortunate to the native
 throughout life; therefore, he should be cautious in not entering
 into matrimonial speculations with those governed by the same
 planet, nor travel nor trade to any town or kingdom over which
 Saturn presides. '
422
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 PRECAUTIONS RELATIVE TO THE PRESENT PROG
 RESS OF SATURN THROUGH GEMINI
 On the 8th day of June, 1824, the planet Saturn quitted the
 sign Taurus, and made his ingress into Gemini. It may here be
 observed, that most authors who write upon astrology agree in
 placing Ireland under the government of Taurus; and the severe
 troubles with which that country has been afflicted during the pos
 session of Taurus by Saturn, which sign he has occupied ever
 since April, 1822, as well as at all other times, for centuries past,‘
 when he has been in that sign, afford, altogether, convincing evi
 dence that Taurus is rightly assigned to Ireland.
 Gemini, the sign which Saturn had then entered, is considered
 to be the ascendant of London: and the number of remarkable
 events which, for ages past, have happened to this city during his
 occupation of this sign, or whenever he has otherwise afflicted it,
 naturally leads us to expect occurrences of an extraordinary kind
 during his ascendency. His influence must, nevertheless, not be
 considered as confined to affairs of a public nature only. It will,
 more or less, extend to every class of persons from the highest
 to the lowest, both public and private ; but it will be more especially
 felt by those more directly signified by Saturn: and according to
 their various capacities, and modes of life, will each individual
 experience the Saturnine influence. Young persons between the
 ages of twenty-one and twenty-three are likely to feel most forcibly
 the effects here alluded to, by important changes in life that will
 be taking place ; but the nature of these changes will be greatly
 regulated by the aspects and positions of the planets as they sev
 erally were at the time of the birth of any individual.
 Persons about the age above mentioned, and whose constitu
 tions are at all inclined to be consumptive, should be careful to
 avoid all sorts of intemperance; for it is an age at which the
 pernicious effects of Saturn’s influence on those born under him
 are often very serious, and in many instances fatal.
 Persons arrived at about the age of twenty-eight, and who
 have been unfortunate from their nineteenth to their twenty-sixth
 years, must not expect any great changes to their advantage, while
 Saturn remains in Gemini, and reverses of fortune, as well as
 many vexatious crosses, will be experienced, under his evil in
 f
 luence, by those born in 1782 and I783. Such persons should not
 engage in extensive speculations for at least these two years, but
 they should live moderately, and wait patiently, until a more safe
 aspect prevails.
 It is no uncommon thing for persons of both sexes to imagine
 those of their opposite sex in love with them when a little flattery
 is sported. Those, thus easy of belief, will be in danger of dis
 appointment, and much uneasiness; for Saturn is busy in pro
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 423
 moting dissimulation; and it behooves the credulous to be well on
 their guard. Nor should those who have been unfortunate in
 their attachments be eager to hastily marry at this time, for it is
 not in the power of the other planets to counteract the evil influ
 ence which Saturn exerts. Much disagreement commonly hap
 pens between elder and younger brothers and sisters, while Saturn
 occupies some particular positions in Gemini. Married persons
 also who have disagreed are not likely to be reconciled as long as
 the influence of this planet preponderates: indeed, their domestic
 broils will most likely get to their highest pitch under the evil and
 virulent power of Saturn. As a caution to those who show symp.
 toms of apoplectic disorders, we ought not to omit to farther
 notice, that this is one of the complaints peculiar to the influence
 of Saturn, and more particularly in the sign Gemini, where his
 effect is to occasion obstructions, and the diseases arising there
 from, as before enumerated. He had, let it be remembered, no
 sooner entered Gemini, than Mr. Oxberry, the comedian, died of
 an apoplectic disorder. The Sun, Mercury, and Venus were al
 ready in this same sign, in which Mercury was also retrograde;
 and, as he was attacked under their influence, the additional force
 of that of Saturn could hardly fail of proving fatal. All persons
 affected with disorders of the head, and who feel a weight, as it
 were, upon the brain, should be very careful of themselves, and
 refrain, as much as possible, from all those severe applications
 which require great exertion of mind.
 AN EXTRAORDINARY MEMORY DEVELOPED BY
 THE ASSISTANCE OF SPIRITS
 The memory of the Bishop of Salisbury was raised, by spiritual
 development and industry, to the highest pitch of human pos
 sibility; for he could readily repeat any thing that he had penned,
 after once reading it. And therefore, usually, at the ringing of
 the bell, he began to commit his sermons to heart, and kept what
 he learned so firmly, that he used to say, if he were to make a
 speech premeditated, before a thousand auditors, shouting or
 fighting all the while, yet he could say whatsoever he had pro
 vided to speak.
 Many barbarous and hard names out of a calendar, and forty
 strange words, Welsh, Irish, etc., after once reading, or twice at
 the most, and short meditation, he could repeat both forwards and
 backwards, without any hesitation.
 Sir Francis Bacon reading to him only the last clauses of ten
 lines in Erasmus's Paraphrase, in a confused and dismembered
 manner, he, after a small pause, rehearsed all those broken parcels
 of sentences the right way, and on the contrary, without stumbling.
CHAPTER XXXIV
 SCIENCE OF ASTROLOGY IN TREATING THE SICK
 That fashions in dress, in furniture, and in such articles as
 apply to external decoration rather than to the use and end of in
 ventions of all sorts, should be varied, according to the taste of
 any age,. is not to be wondered at; but that a science, and more
 especially such a one as that which is employed in preserving the
 health of the human body, or in restoring it in case of sickness,
 should have undergone such a total change, from the prevalence
 of fashion, is a subject worthy of reflection.
 Every one who entered upon the profession of a doctor of
 medicine one hundred and fifty years ago in England, and in most
 other European countries, was obliged to undergo an examination
 in astrology; and, if deficient in the application of that science to
 the healing art, he was considered totally unfit to practice his pro
 fession. In the present age it is the fashion to laugh at the sys
 tem pursued in the former: but whether this laughing indicates
 improved knowledge upon the subject of the human constitution,
 and the changes to which it is exposed from atmospherical transi
 tions, is not altogether clear.
 If we may judge from the healthy state of the animal world in
 general, it will at once be obvious, that but few things of a very
 424
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 425
 simple kind, and those furnished by nature to every portion of
 the globe according to its various climates, in sufficient abundance,
 are wanted to preserve health, or restore the constitution when
 ever it may have sustained injury. There can be no fairer way of
 judging what is actually necessary to keep up the vigor of the
 human frame than to look at nations of savages, and to observe
 their ways of recruiting their strength when they have been
 weakened by disease.
 _
 Perhaps nothing proves more than a simple observation of this
 nature, the absurdity and mischief to mankind, of the fashion
 which has introduced into every apothecary’s shop such a display
 of painted vials, jars, gallipots, etc., etc. Under the prevalence of
 such a fashion for varieties of every preparation of medicaments,
 it is impossible that the science can continue systematic, as it was
 when Galenicals formed the chief body of the materia medica.
 It will be always subject to an innovation of its principles, as long
 as astrological diagnosis and prognosis are excluded from practice,
 and will be rather an experimental than a settled science. My
 opinion is, and it has been formed from much attention to the sub
 ject, and from a due consideration of both the ancient emploded
 system, and the modern accidental administration of medicine,
 that a complete knowledge of astrology is indispensable to a phys
 ician. There certainly can be no system where there are no set
 principles: and if the principles are natural, they must be drawn
 from astrology, for astrology comprehends the whole system of
 nature.
 English villagers of the present day have, for the most part,
 recourse to some neighboring old woman when they are out of
 order, who soon sets them to rights, and manages to keep a neigh
 borhood alive, and in a good sound state of health, for pretty near
 a century. She knows the time for gathering her herbs in their
 best state of perfection. She has her decoctions, and distillations,
 and salves, and so forth, ready for all cases that may be wanted,
 and her prescriptions are such as have done wonders, from her
 great-grandfather’s time. Thus, the simple practice of antiquity
 is not totally extinct among us; and it is to be hoped that fashion
 will again revive it.
 ACANDID SURVEY OF CERTAIN PASSING EVENTS
 THEIR ATTENDANT SIGNS, AND INEVITABLE CONSEQUENCES
 The passions of a nation may be compared to the ocean, which,
 without some cause of agitation, is disposed to calmness: but when
 ruffled to a state of violence by any sudden or provoking impulse,
 the effects are tremendous and overwhelming. In looking at the
 frenzies which occasionally seize upon the public mind, some may
426
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 be satisfied with the fancy, that there is nothing farther to be
 apprehended than the merely momentary fit or panic; and that it
 loses all its fervour as soon as the temporary emergency which
 caused it is overpast. Those who think (I will not say reason)
 thus abstractedly think erroneously; nor can such short-sighted
 mortals know much of the nature of the human heart. Every
 provocation which a rational body experiences has a concomitant
 origin, which is not visible to the purblind and precipitate. Every
 new insult adds fuel to fuel: and the fervour of indignation, when
 it has once glowed, never becomes extinct; but will, some time or
 "I"
 ll‘
 !
 I!!! i \
 other, as new combustibles are added, burst forth with quenchless
 fury. It is at these latent consequences that the moral philosopher
 looks with serious forebodings, and not at the mere occurrence
 which may happen to be coming to pass.
 In a former page, some allusions have been made to the entrance
 of Saturn into Gemini the ascendant of London, as well as obser
 vations relative to the sorrowful afliictions which have befallen
 Ireland during his sojourn in Taurus, the ascendant of that crimi
 nally-neglected island. Those remarks, it will be seen, relate to
 persons of various classes ‘rather than to events; and it is a task
 of no very agreeable kind to which the pending signs now lead;
 namely, that of tracing the astrological significations which apper
 tain to certain weighty subjects that have been recently making,
 and which ought to make, a serious impression on every virtuous
 and patriotic mind.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 427
 THE DEPLORABLE INFIDELITY OF THE WoRLD AND THE MEANs
 BY WHICH IT IS PROMOTED
 The first circumstance which affects the community at large
 upon the ingress of Saturn into Gemini* the ruling sign of this
 O7.7II | P7.7II b 28.348 | M. 12.18 ga I 3 27.35 mp I
 220. 15 ö | # 15.40II R Q. 11. 20 vs I H 15 w; R |
 L 2
 vast metropolis, is the trial of eight men charged with selling
 blasphemous publications. It is well worthy of observation, that
 these trials, which will prove of more national importance than
 can be seen upon a hasty glance, commenced on the very day
 that the entrance of the malevolent planet into the ominous sign
 was taking place.
 The observations on this remarkable prosecution cannot be
 too minutely made; and I shall, therefore, feel myself excused for
 particularly pointing out some of the most striking matters by
 which this case, and the circumstances connected with it, are dis
 tinguished.
These eight persons, over whose fate the malign orb seems to
 have so especially predominated, were the agents, as we know, of
 a man who has voluntarily sacrificed his liberty and property in
 the cause of doctrines which oppose the truths of Christianity:
 and not only has he himself been long suffering the scourge of the
 law, but his wife, and other of his female kindred, have, by their
 own choice, rushed dauntlessly into the jaws of the judge and the
 jailer, and become the victims of the same fatal resolution.
 The consequences of this apparently disinterested and deter
 mined conduct in the cause of free-thinking, has been to induce
 an endless succession of proselytes and propagators of the same
 Antichristian tenets; who, for the most part, meet the courts with
 a confidence that argues sincerity in the cause they have engaged
 in: and it is to be deplored deeply, that the want of theological un
 derstanding in those before whom they are brought never fails
 to be conspicuous upon all these trials. Thus, that which is meant
 to be suppressed by the utmost rigors of the law, only gains
 spiritual strength by the triumphant manner in which the dis
 ciples of the infidel, mean and uneducated as they are, face, grap
 ple with, and floor, their antagonists in court, who dare never
 stir an inch from the technical verbiage of acts of Parliament.
 As long as this unequal contest between the arm of the law and
 * ProLEMY, the prince of astrologers, advises us to judge the effect of every pecu
 liar ingress by the preceding lunation; and the following were the very remarkable
 positions of the starry orbs at the new moon of May 28, 1824, 3 h. 3 m. p. m. which
 immediately preceded the ingress of Saturn into Gemini.
 *
428
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC ‘
 the arm of infidelity is. impoliticly kept up, so long must the latter
 gain strength; and true religion and morality grow weak and
 suffer abuse.
 A WORD ORTWO FROM COUNSELLOR FRENCH, AND
 _
 ONE OR TWO FROM FATHERJEROME
 A barrister, named French, conducted the defenses set up by
 certain of these dealers in infidelity, and a few of the words which
 he used express very truly and very cogently the consequences
 which the nation is suffering from the injudicious mode of sup
 pression which has been hitherto adopted. “Piety,” says he,
 “shudders at these prosecutions. True Christianity is every
 where scandalized from them. The dissemination of these books
 is most horrible, and the circulation is increased by tens of thou
 sands by these prosecutions. Could the imprisonment of these
 poor, starved, ignorant creatures check them? No. The true
 cause of the frightful increase of infidelity was the vices and
 luxury of the higher classes—their deistical principles—and their
 unchristian conduct. He repeated it, that the community was in
 peril from this source.”—“He felt for those who.were prosecuted ;
 and he came to protest, as a Christian, against such a course of
 remedy as imprisonment. He wished them to make converts of
 these poor men rather than martyrs.”
 Now what is most wonderful to a bystander is, that, in an age
 which prides itself with being so luminous and refined, men of
 education, and who must be well acquainted with the results of
 nearly three centuries of persecution, should not pay some regard
 to what experience is ever teaching. Domitian, Adrian, and An
 toninus, after sacrificing nearly a million of Jews, could not ex
 tinguish Judaism: nor could the millions on millions of martyrs
 to Christianity, from Nero down to Dioclesian, repress the prog
 ress of its doctrines. The same evidence is manifested in the
 whole history of the Reformation, from the early dissent of the
 Waldenses to the present time; that is to say, rigorous measures
 have ever tended to strengthen rather than suppress freedom of
 opinion up topics of religion. Of this one thing we may all rest
 certain—that no set of persons can overthrow the truth. What,
 then, is the line of conduct which this axiom points out? Why
 obviously this—to employ the truth to persuade and convince
 those who are in error. It is, however, much to be feared, that
 the fact which St. Jerome advanced is but too well grounded:
 “After the church,” says he, “had Christian magistrates, she was
 fuller of riches, but emptier of virtue; and when she had golden
 chalices, she had wooden priests.”
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 429
 A COMPARISON OF CERTAIN CONFIGURATIONS
 OPPOSITION To THE ESTABLISHED RELIGIONS
 When any powerful influence is exerted from either Gemini
 or Sagittarius, some circumstances unfavorable to religion is com
 _
 monly seen to be the result. I have already sufficiently remarked
 upon the increasing spirit of opposition to the established religion
 of the country, as evinced in the conduct of Carlile’s agents; and
 there can be no question, but the notorious profligacy of those to
 whose care the superintendence of religion is committed, has been
 a chief cause of the successful career of these emissaries of in
 f
 idelity. Precept without practice is but the smoke of a dunghill,
 which every one is desirous to shun even the side-wind of. In
 deed, to persons in the least degree conversant with astrology, I
 shall be able to afford full proof that the disgrace which has fallen
 on the church through the infamy of certain of the clergy, is con
 nected with the active propagation of blasphemous doctrines, and
 of more efficacy in promoting the circulation of the Carlile pub
 lications, than all the energies of an open antichristian host could
 have ever effected.
 In order to bring forward my astrological evidence on this
 great national subject, I must reluctantly advert to that fatal day
 for the established church, the 19th of July, 1822: and, by com
 paring the signs which predominated over the horrid deed com
 mitted by a dignitary of the highest rank on that day, with those
 which prevailed on the 8th of June, 1824, when the trials of
 Carlile’s shopmen commenced, a singular correspondence in the
 planetary positions will be detected, which will speak volumes
 in favor of the authenticity of Astrology, and of the connection
 above signified.
 Upon comparing this scale of the relative positions of the
 planets, the reader will observe, that, on the 19th of July, 1822,
 the day on which the execrable bishop polluted what is termed the
 Establishment with a stain of the foulest and most indelible nature,
 the planet Jupiter was just quitting Taurus——that Mars had just
 entered Libra, and was applying to a quartile of the Georgium
 Sidus, the latter being retrograde, and beholding one another from
 cardinal signs—Mercury, also, being retrograde, in Cancer, in a
 state of combustion—and the Moon, in Leo just separated from
 her conjunction, being afflicted by a quartile of Saturn emitted
 from Taurus.
 '
430 .
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC ‘
 Now, upon the 8th of June, 18é4, when the agents of Carlile
 are put upon trial for the act to which the former may be regarded
 as a grand inducement, we find Saturn in the posture in which
 Jupiter was seen in the former case, namely, just ready to transit
 into Gemini—Mars, also, has just ingressed, as before, into Libra,
 and, as in the former instance, is applying to a quartile with Geor
 gium Sidus, the latter now retrograde as before; and the aspect
 still being from the same cardinal signs—Mercury, likewise retro
 grade, as in the former aspects—Venus, in both instances, in the
 ascendant of London—and the Moon in Scorpio, just separated
 from afliiction by conjunction with Mars—to which may be
 added, the quartile of the Sun and Georgium Sidus on both days
 within orbs, and from the same cardinal signs.
 Having shown the remarkable coincidence on these two oc
 casions, which both so materially concern the religion of the
 country, I shall only farther state, on this point of my question.
 that Saturn has a strong sympathy with subtle-minded persons;
 and, in exciting them to action, he is very powerful. Carlile’s
 connections are no doubt of the class on which he, at this time, is
 very forcibly operating; and, as his motion is heavy, his effects
 may be expected to be lasting, and to increase in importance, for
 some time to come, relative to the affairs of the British metropolis.
'
 CHAPTER XXXV
 THE SOUTHERN COAST OF ENGLAND
 BULL-FER-HIDE, THE LANDING-PLACE OF William THE CON
 QUEROR, AND His VICTORY OVER KING HAROLD
 During a pedestrian excursion, recently taken by the Astrol
 oger, along the southern coast of England, to the several watering
 places, he had one morning early set out from Hastings on his way
 to Eastbourne. Arrived at a spot, nearto the village and garrison
 station of Bexhill, called by the people of that neighborhood Bull
 fer-hide, he had sat himself down by the wayside to contemplate
 that memorable spot where William the Norman landed his troops,
 previous to his conquest of England, 757 years ago, in that contest
 with the Saxon and Danish power which had concentrated in King
 Harold, who commanded in person. One side was fighting to
 obtain a kingdom, the other to preserve it to himself and his pos
 terity; and no battle was ever fought, before or since, that was
 more desperately contested. It is well known that the army of
 Harold was totally overthrown, and that its royal commander was
 one of the slain. From this celebrated victory the town of Battle,
 in Sussex, received its name, and will, perhaps, remain till dooms
 431
432
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 day, a monument of the result of that struggle for the crown of
 England.
 While the mind of the Astrologer was engaged in reflections on
 the events of that day, and the total change of masters which the
 landed proper throughout England was destined to undergo in
 consequence o the result proving fatal to the dynasty which had
 previously been established, a gentleman dressed in a plain English
 costume, but who, from the broken accent in which he spoke our
 language, might be supposed a foreigner of the military profession,
 iilppropfched towards the place where the Astrologer had seated
 imse .
 0
 THE STRANGE GENTLEMAN—THE INTEREST HE TAKEs In THE
 SroT, AND TRUE SIGNIFICATION OF THE NAME IT BEARS
 The stranger having introduced himself according to those
 manners which, in a moment, bespeak the man of the world, pro
 ceeded to say that he believed the town of Brighthelmstone lay
 somewhere beyond the bold summit of those distant mountains.
 The majestic prominence of Beachy Head, and the fine range of
 chalky cliffs which terminate the heights called the South Downs,
 and which form the western extremity of a noble sweep of coast,
 called Pevensey Bay, were the summits to which the inquirer
 alluded. The Astrologer answered him by stating somewhat par
 ticularly the distance, and the course of villages through which
 the direct road lay, and farther explaining, by a pocket map of the
 country, the several other routes by which a way to that celebrated
 resort of royalty might be taken. The objects of curiosity and cer
 tain historical circumstances abounding in and connected with this
 part of England, were also pointed out, and it was finally observed
 by the Astrologer, that he was on an excursion round the coast by
 way of amusement, and to give himself the benefit of a sea breeze;
 and that he was then on his way to Eastbourne, in the direct road
 to Brighton.
 The stranger appeared wonderfully interested at finding him
 self upon the spot where a landing wasmade of those forces which
 consigned the kingdom to a new line of monarchs, and gave its
 lands as an heritage to a new race of nobles. The Astrologer and
 stranger had just taken a survey of the remains of the old fort
 constructed by the Normans upon their first footing in the country,
 and had walked round the vestiges of intrenchments and defenses
 which the lapse of so many ages since past had not yet effaced,
 when an old fisherman, who had already passed a life of nearly
 threescore and ten upon the spot, came up. He told us that the
 name of Bull-fer-hide had been given to the place, because the
 Conqueror, immediately upon disembarking, called out, “A bull
 for his hide,” signifying, that he had a bull slaughtered, and his
\
 ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 433
 hide cut into narrow strips or thongs, saying, That, if he could
 obtain so much land as he could enclose round with the thongs of
 one bull’s hide, he would be King of England.
 ’
 This etymology of the name which the place bears to the
 present day being thus traditionally delivered from father to son,
 and from the simple old native of the solitary spot to us, occasioned
 the strange foreigner to laugh heartily, and made him somewhat
 curious to hear all the legends which the countryman was willing
 to impart, concerning the level and its surrounding district, as far
 as the eye could extend. Through the communications of this
 veteran, we arrived at many particulars concerning the neighbor
 hood, as they are still recorded in the legends of the rude natives;
 but which we do not here stay to recount, as they have no imme
 diate connection with the present objects of the Astrologer.
 Having at length bade the old fisherman good morning, the
 stranger remarked how many corruptions in language and ludi
 crous associations arose out _of similarity of sound and misappli
 cation of sense; and seeming still much amused with the
 interpretation just before given of Bull-fer-hide, he observed
 that hithe was a radical Saxon term for any small port or quay,
 and that the strong redoubt which the Normans had there con
 structed for the purpose of securely landing their forces, stores,
 etc., from the opposite coast, plainly bespoke the signification of
 the name which had been conferred upon the place, bouleoarde in '
 the Norman tongue implying a fortress; and, consequently, the
 original title by which the landing—place and rendezvous were
 distinguished was evidently Boulez/arde Hythe; signifying, in
 English, Fortress Landing-place.
 THE SMUGGLER’S WIFE
 . Having reconnoitred, as far as we desired, this celebrated spot,
 we were about turning into the small inn, the only habitation
 except the huts of two or three fishermen, which the place con
 tains, when up came a poor woman, with a little boy and girl
 trudging pitifully by her side, and with an infant in her arms.
 She courtesied respectfully, and seemed hesitating, as it were,
 whether she should pass us or not without speaking. Necessity
 seemed to prevail over reluctance, and, coming towards us with
 eyes flush with tears, she said she hoped we would not be angry
 at her begging a trifle to assist her to proceed on with her poor
 children to their home in the neighborhood of Portsmouth, nearly
 sixty miles distant.
 On being questioned, it appeared that her husband was a
 smuggler, and that in one of his enterprises he had recently been
 unfortunate enough to fall in with a revenue cruiser off the coast
 of Kent, the consequence of which was that he had been taken
t
 434
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 prisoner and was then confined in the gaol of Dover. The poor
 wife had walked from their place of abode in Hampshire to see
 him in his confinement, which, after the prayers and entreaties.
 of a fortnight, had been refused her by the authorities; and,
 fatigued in body, and full of heaviness of heart, after having
 performed such a laborious journey in vain, she was returning
 towards her desolate home, under all the pangs of melancholy,
 and the sad bodings of the destitute wife and mother.
 She told her sorrowful story in an artless manner, which suffi
 ciently vouched for its truth; and expressed herself doubly grieved
 at being, for the first time in her life, driven to ask charity, which
 she declared nothing would have induced her to do, but the hunger
 to which her children were reduced. Her last money had been
 paid for their lodgings the night before, and they had then not had
 anything to eat since the preceding afternoon. She spoke in the
 highest terms of the goodness of her husband, who, she said,
 except following that line of life, was a character without reproach.
 He was truly tender towards her and the children, and a friend
 to everybody as far as he could; but she feared that no mercy
 would be shown him, and that she was now doomed to pass the
 remainder of her days in widowhood, and to do with her own
 hands the best she could for her poor fatherless children.
 My new friend seemed to feel, as a man ought to do, all
 the sensations of true compassion for a female in so uncalled-for
 a state of suffering, and lost no time in ordering the landlord of
 the inn to provide a comfortable meal for her and the children
 at his expense. Knowing the austerity practiced by the local
 authorities against such as followed smuggling, and fearing that
 she would be exposed to the severities with which those that come
 under the acceptation of vagrants are sometimes visited by petty
 country justices and their insolent myrmidoms, it was my inten
 tion to have secured her from the chance of such additional
 affliction, by a letter of recommendation to a worthy magistrate
 of a liberal nature, who lived not far distant, and to have for
 warded her lawful progress home by means of a pass,
 THE CONDUCT OF THE ALIEN TOWARDS THE
 DISTRESSED WOMAN
 The strange gentleman seemed full of indignation on learning
 that persons totally devoid of discrimination, and who often exer
 cised power for the sake of indulging the most contemptible pride,
 should be vested with authority to throw a woman free from
 crime, and at the same time so unfortunately situated, as to be
 driven, against her will, to ask a few pence to satisfy the hunger
 of her innocent children, into a prison.
 He then vehemently deprecated the unchristianlike principles
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 435
 of those laws by which humanity could be violated with impunity:
 and vowed that, in his opinion, no severer judgment could be
 inflicted on the civilized world than that of its being consigned
 over, by national laws, to the wills of dissipated and voluptuous
 tyrants, who had no care but that of gratifying their own inordi
 nate lusts and evil appetites.
 “As to the crime of smuggling,” says he, “in what does it con
 sist? In nothing but following a traffic, forbidden only for the
 sake of a wicked jealousy that exists between the managers of
 one state and the managers of another—a traffic sanctioned by
 the laws of Heaven! Can there be any doubt in the mind of one
 who has looked into the sacred ordinances of religion and morality,
 but that one part of the great scheme of Providence is the estab
 lishment of a free intercourse between all the societies of men
 upon the earth? And what is it that counteracts the will of
 Heaven, in this glorious particular, but the framing of laws to
 gratify avarice by partial monopolies of the articles of traffic—by
 enacting laws to sanction a few men to plunder the mass? And
 what, then, is the crime of which this poor smuggler has been
 guilty? It is one which never could have been created but for
 the existence of the wicked and pernicious laws that are made to
 sanction monopoly and avarice. Thus do we behold humanity
 infringed, and Christianity violated, by those dirty private enact
 ments which have caused this poor sufferer to be robbed of her
 husband, and these harmless babes of their affectionate father—
 thus have our ears been tortured with a tale of barbarity which
 would disgrace the lowest savages of Africa, were it told of them,
 that a woman from affection had walked nearly a hundred miles
 to console her imprisoned mate—imprisoned for no crime but a
 defiance of laws which it will always be considered honorable to
 defy—and, when she has performed this hard duty, to be denied
 the privilege of a word of mutual consolation—Oh! it is too much
 for any land that boasts of liberty!”
 Having taken our refreshment, during which the stranger,
 with much feeling, indulged in these observations; and the poor
 woman being now ready to depart, her alien friend wished to
 ascertain what sum of money would be necessary to carry her
 home, regretting, at the same time, that he was not a rich man.
 She signified that, on account of the tender age of the children,
 it would be impossible for her to reach home in less than four or
 five days, as they were then very much fatigued; and that it would
 require as much as half-a-crown a-day to provide them all with
 food and lodging upon the road.
 Our strange friend thought that such a sum would be quite
 insufficient to enable her to effect such a journey; adding, “I, as
 far as I am able, am a true cosmopolite, and my principles teach
 me to regard every country in the world as my home, and every
THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 436
 honest person as my relative. Every human heart is loved by
 me—every oppressor is regarded as my personal enemy. You
 are in distress, good woman, and I am bound by my principles to
 ~relieve you as far as I can. My worthy friend here (as he was
 pleased to term the Astrologer) has kindly proposed to assist you
 to return to your home by placing you under the protection of
 those laws of your country, which have been made to succor
 indigent travelers; but you might, even under these salutary
 laws, be exposed to insults and vexations from those unfeeling
 people who administer them. My purse happens to contain at
 this time a trifle which I do not, thank Heaven, immediately want
 myself; and you, therefore, do me a favor by enabling yourself
 to avoid the painful extremity of applying to the magistry, by
 receiving this from my hand, which, I trust, will be sufficient to
 purchase the necessaries you may want by the way—and I
 heartily,” says he, “wish you safe home.”
 With this he put two sovereigns into her hand, and the
 Astrologer having added his mite, the poor creature burst into a
 f
 lood of tears, which spoke her sense of the service more eloquently
 than all the power of words could have done: and while she was
 in vain endeavoring to overcome her feelings sufficiently to artic
 ulate her thanks to her benefactor, and her prayer for blessing
 on his head, he interrupted her to say, that he had only been
 performing a small part of those duties which he owed to God
 that, therefore, she was not to thank him: but he emphatically
 recommended her not to forget, as soon as she was alone, and her
 mind composed, to thank that Power which had taught him that
 it was his duty ot relieve her: for on Him' would rest her sup
 port through her misfortune: and who was able to restore her
 husband from the hands of those merciless slaves to injustice,
 who had deprived him of liberty. He farther promised that, if the
 smuggler remained in confinement until his return to Dover, he
 would use his utmost efforts to get him released. These proofs
 of the spontaneous and natural goodness of his heart only brought
 forth further streams of thanks from the poor woman’s eyes: and
 the children, hardly conscious of the cause of their mother's tears,
 wept plenteously from sympathy, in which state they all departed
 on their way to Hampshire.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 Qstrolngiral firugnustiratiuns
 437
 BY WHICHTHEOVERTHROWOFTHEANGLO-SAXON
 AND DANISH DYNASTY WAS INDICATED
 Some part of the weight of its woes having been thus taken
 off the heart of the smuggler’s wife, and the stranger and myself
 being left together, our conversation again turned upon the subject
 of the battle for the crown of England, which the scene of the
 morning had so strongly refreshed in our minds. Upon being
 informed that the fatal overthrow of the Anglo-Saxon and Nor
 man potentates was presignified by the affliction of the sign Aries,
 the ascendant of England, by the planets Saturn and Mars, and
 by a total eclipse of the moon, which happened in the same sign a
 little before the era of the battle—the humane cosmopolite
 expressed himself highly pleased at a piece of information so novel
 and unexpected; and, which he was pleased to say, added a
 memorandum of no small estimation to his log-book, which he
 took from his pocket, and in it entered down the astrological fore
 runners of that great event. He then proceeded to inquire con
 cerning the tokens by which other momentous changes in the
 moral world had been preceded, and seemed particularly gratified
 with the information, on these subjects, which he obtained.
 During this repast, and the conversation which accompanied
 it, the Astrologer had a perfect opportunity to mark all of the
 peculiar traits of his face, and the characteristics which the speech
 and manners of the stranger denoted; and from these he was
 enabled to arrive at certain conclusions concerning his birth, and
 some of the leading circumstances by which the life of this interest
 ing person had been distinguished.
 He confessed himself to have been one of those who had been
 prejudiced against the science of astrology, but, on the applica
 tion which it enabled a total stranger to make,to things which he
 conceived none knew but himself, he at once acknowledged that
 he was now a convert to its wonderful principles, and should in
 future hold the science in great esteem.
 CLIMACTERICAL YEARS OF A PERSON’S LIFE
 There are certain cycles, or terms of years, which have been
 observed, at their periodical returns, to bring round with them
 circumstances, either fortunate or unfortunate, according as the
 moon is in aspect good or bad, with the point of the ecliptic ascend
 ing in a nativity. The periodical revolution of the moon is per
 formed in twenty-seven days, seven hours, and forty-three min
 utes; hence, about every seventh day she is moon to her place in
 the radix; and thus, some time in the course of her seventh year,
438
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 she becomes quartile to her own place, and causes what is termed,
 by some, the quartile climacteric, which, unless its effects be, in
 some degree, neutralized by other aspects, is an unfortunate
 transit. Again, some time in the course of each ninth year, the
 moon occupies a place trine to the aspect of her place in the '
 nativity: which is favorable unless greatly molested by adverse
 aspects.
 Hence it will be seen, that a seventh, fourteenth, twenty-first,
 twenty-eighth, etc., year is a quartile, or an evil climacteric; and
 the ninth, eighteenth, twenty-seventh, thirty-sixth, etc., are trine
 climacterics, and promise good. The forty-ninth and sixty-third
 are termed grand climacterics; the former being the square of
 that term which constitutes the quartile, as seven times seven are
 fory-nine ; and the latter being the time multiplied into the quartile,
 as seven times nine are sixty-three: which are both periods of a
 person’s life productive commonly of something memorable.
 Some authors think the climacterical effects result from cer
 tain periodical returns in the aspects of Saturn, which planet per
 forms nearly one-quarter of his orbit every seventh year; but
 the effects produced by Saturn, though powerful to a certain
 '
 extent, are not more than I/200th part equal to those of the
 moon.
 REMARKS
 UPoN THE S1aNs WHicH PREVAILED OvER THE DEA'rHs OF THE
 KING AND QUEEN OF THE SANDWICH IsLEs AND
 THE CHINEsE LADY
 CALCULATED To EVINCE
 THE ANARETIC INFLUENCE OF THE DizAooN’s TAIL
 Persons whom custom has reduced to so slavish a condition
 that they regard its laws as paramount to those of Nature, can
 not be expected to look upon the Sun, Moon, and stars, as cre
 ated for any other purpose than merely to rise and set. The sun,
 to them, is but a very common—place every-day sort of body, that
 shines upon them, to be sure: but as for anything else, he is little
 to be thought of: and then the Moon,-—-she, too, though she does
 not make herself so cheap quite as the Sun, yet she has her par
 ticular ways, and exposes them to one’s eyes without much reserve ;
 ‘so that it would seem almost beneath the dignity of such exalted
 beings as men to think her of half the consequence of an air
 balloon, and to consider her as well worth looking at as a thing
 made by their own hands. As to the planets and stars with which
 the heavens are overspread, if the Sun and Moon are unworthy
 of consideration, it would be unreasonable to suppose such diminu
 tive sparks as they appear of a bit higher nature than snuffs of
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 439
 candles. It may be thought unjust sarcasm, but it is to be feared
 that these are ideas which apply but too truly to the mass of man
 kind with regard to the employment of their facu1ties—with
 regard to their disposition to discern the characters and qualities
 of the heavenly bodies. Still it is to be hoped that there are some
 willing to receive proofs that they were created as well for signs
 as for seasons; and we, therefore, proceed to lay before them the
 following particulars of recent events, with their correspondent
 signs:
 Onthe 8th of July, 1824, the
 On the 7th of July, 1824,
 Queen of the Sandwich Islands Venus made her transit of the
 died, at Osborn’s Hotel, Adel- Dragon’s Tail, in Cancer, and
 phi, London.
 applying to opposition with
 Georgium Sidus.
 On the 9th of July, 1824, the
 Take the foregoing transit
 Chinese lady died at the Chinese as governing the death of this
 Rooms in Pall Mall.
 On the 14th day of July,
 illustrious stranger as well as
 that of the Queen the day pre
 vious.
 On the 14th day of July,
 1824, the King of the Sandwich 1824, Mercury made his transit
 Islands died at the Caledonian of the Dragon’s Tail, in Cancer,
 Hotel, Adelphi.
 applying to opposition of Geor
 gium Sidus.
 Before I proceed to remark concerning the fatal influence
 which any planet during its transit of the Dragon’s Tail acquires,
 let me, among the peculiar aspects of this period, point out one or
 two for the more close and serious consideration of my astrolog
 ical readers.
 On the 16th of January, 1824, the moon was eclipsed, and at
 the time of her obscuration was vertical to the Sandwich Isles.
 On the 26th of June, 1824, the Sun was eclipsed, and at the
 time of coming into the Lunar Shadow he was vertical to the Sand
 wich Isles.
 On the 11th of July, 1824, the week in which their Majesties
 died, the moon was again eclipsed, and at this time she was again
 nearly vertical to the Sandwich Isles.—See the account of eclipses
 in the Prophetic Almanack. These will, no doubt, be regarded
 as signal prognostics.
 In his work on astrology, Mr. James Wilson says, “Some are
 simple enough to direct the Dragon’s Tail to the horoscope as
440
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 anareta; and Gadbury says, he knew three instances where it
 destroyed life: a moment's reflection would have convinced him,
 that it could do nothing of the kind, being a mere nonentity.”
 Whoever will give themselves the trouble to register the suc
 cessive transits of the Dragon's Tail by the several planets, will
 soon find that its effects are invariably anaretic, and that these
 commonly prove fatal to persons of great consequence. Queen
 Caroline of England died on the day that Venus made her transit
 of the Dragon's Tail, in 1821: and now we have to record the
 coincidence of this same phenomenon with the deaths of the
 Queen of the Sandwich Isles, and the Chinese Lady, together
 with the death of the King of the Sandwich Isles on the very day
 that Mercury makes his transit of this fatal node. It is these
 facts, and not men's opinions, that must guide those who would
 arrive at any eminence in astrology.
}:
 s:#
 s'
 CHAPTER XXXVI
 A RETROSPECTIVE VIEW OF
 CERTAIN REMARKABLE EVENTs
 WITH OBSERVATIONS ON THE SIGNS BY WHICH THEY WERE
 SEVERALLY AccomPANIED
 By all persons who have paid close attention to the subject
 of astrology, with a desire to ascertain its efficacy with regard
 to popular events, it will have been observed, that when planets
 have been passing through the sign Gemini, conflagrations have
 been commonly prevalent, and some very great ones have hap
 pened under this sign. But we are not to take this alone as the
 sign by which such catastrophes are to be anticipated in this
 particular quarter of the world. Aries, Libra, and Sagittarius,
 have had their share of great fires as well as Gemini, and few
 have ever happened, except in parts very remote in England, but
 when those signs have been very strongly affected. The particular
 quality of any combination of influence that may happen to be in
 familiarity with those signs, should, however, be at all times
 attentively considered, when that which depends upon them is
 441
442
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 investigated with a view to foretell events which they are known
 to rule.
 Those who have given this part of the subject of astrology the
 most minute attention possible, have found the sextiles and trines
 of Saturn and Mars, from those signs, invariably attended with
 consequences remarkably disastrous; and very often much more
 so than the quartiles and oppositions of those planets on other
 occasions. Such positions will scarcely ever occur without being
 followed by great fires—p0pular tumults—dreadful murders—
 awful suicides, and such-like: and wherever war is carrying on
 under such configurations, it rarely happens but that they bring
 on times of extraordinary slaughter and devastation.
 SIoNs ATTENDING THE CORONATION, AND EvENTs
 CoNNEcTED WITH IT
 It has been moreover observed, that, when planets have been
 making their transits through some particular degrees of the
 signs Gemini, Virgo, Saggittarius, and Pisces, England, France,
 and some other countries that border upon these, have been dread
 fully agitated. The degrees thus specially alluded to may be con
 sidered to extend from the 11th to the 15th, and from the 24th
 to the 28th degree of each of the said signs. Eclipses of the sun
 or moon, when they happen in the limits of those degrees, are
 certain forerunners of calamities to this part of Europe. The
 great eclipse of the sun which happened on the 7th of Septem
 ber, 1820, took place under the 14th degree of Virgo, and so vir
 ulent were its effects in those quarters where the before-men
 tioned signs principally predominate, that it has been thought by
 some very experienced astrologers to have afflicted the earth for
 upwards of two years. Events certainly followed it of a most
 serious and alarming nature. In the latter part of that year, and
 in the early part of 1821, a general ferment was excited by the
 persecution of the Queen. It was also on the 5th of May, 1821,
 that Napoleon Bonaparte died; and I mention this particular
 circumstance, for the sake of pointing out to the notice of
 students in the science, that this great eclipse fell not only in the
 ascendant of Paris, but within two degrees of the place of Mars
 in the nativity of the late Emperor Napoleon; and which was, no
 doubt, a signal of his approaching end. The coronation of his
 present Majesty on the 19th of July, 1821, was distinguished
 beyond every other ceremony of a like nature by the attempt of
 the Queen to be present in the Abbey, and the means that were
 employed to prevent her admission. Eleven days after the coro
 nation-day, she was taken ill at Drury-Lane Theater; and, after
 lingering under the fatal malady until the 7th of August, she
 died, regretted by all humane hearts. Now, those who will take
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 443
 the trouble to examine the planetary aspects at the time of the
 coronation, will find that the infortune, Mars, was in the 14th
 degree of Gemini, one of the ominous positions before particular
 ized. On the day of the Queen’s death, Mars had attained the
 27th degree of the same sign ; a part ofthe Zodiac already alluded
 to as singularly baleful: and on the day when her remains were
 removed from Hammersmith to be conducted to her native coun
 try, and on which were witnessed those frightful contentions
 between the military and that part of the populace who had
 resolved to take the hearse through the city, Venus had just
 reached the 14th degree of Virgo, the very point of longitude on
 which the great eclipse before alluded to took place. It will be
 also remembered, that two spectators lost their lives, on the day
 of the funeral, by the conduct of the military in using their fire
 arms.
 Having called the attention of my readers to the subject of
 that memorable eclipse, and certain domestic events which seem
 immediately connected with it, we should not omit to mention the
 persecutions of the Grecian Christians by their Turkish task
 masters, which became general just at the occultation of the great
 luminary; and which brought on a train of massacres and brutal
 violations as horrible and as revolting to human nature as any on
 record, by which the great cities of Turkey in Asia were filled
 with female victims and children, the prey of the barbarian; and
 the cities of injured Greece with reprisals of Mohammedan blood.
 It would also seem forgetful to omit noticing the extraor
 dinary distress that prevailed in our own country among the agri
 culturists the whole of the year following the eclipse, which may
 very justly be esteemed portentous of the ruin experienced by
 thousands; and of the great depreciation of land, which was left
 in many districts almost entirely on the hands of the proprietors,
 and rents, in consequence, were reduced throughout the country
 from £30 to £60 per cent. These are events of too much magni
 tude to be indifferently passed over by the reflecting and philo
 sophical Astronologer.
 ‘
 A COMPARISON OF THE S1oNs ANnAsPEcTs UNDERWHICH SoME
 OF THE CHIEF DEsTRUcTioNs BY FIRE HAVE TAKEN PLACE
 In order to afford the admirers of the science an opportunity
 of witnessing how instrumental planetary positions in the par
 ticular signs and degrees before pointed out have been in the
 production of extraordinary calamities, and more especially of
 such as result from fires, particularly in and about London,
 sketches are here subjoined of some of the most remarkable
 accidents of this nature that have happened during the last thirty
 years, together with a scale of the configurations which prevailed
444
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 at the time of each conflagration. This sort of comparison cannot
 fail to be highly satisfactory and of great value to artists, as it
 gives ample groundwork, deduced from facts within our own
 immediate knowledge, for future judgments, and for raising the
 science from its present degraded position to that eminence, and
 dignified condition among the philosophical doctrines of the uni
 verse, which it so justly merits.
 FIRST DESTRUCTION OF ASTLEY’s AMPITHEATRE BY FIRE
 On the 17th of September, 1794, Astley's Amphitheatre, and
 many houses adjoining it, were destroyed by fire; and the positions
 of the planets at the time were as follows:
 tip.
 ©
 II
 8
 |
 f
 if
 Go24. 44 | D 9.37 | #11. 21 b29.36R. I h;25.7 & 10.34
 17.
 *|#17.48
 Thus it will be perceived, that the Sun, Georgium Sidus, and
 Jupiter, are all posited in the ominous degrees of the signs already
 alluded to; the Sun and Jupiter being quartile to each other.
 Mars, also, entering the disastrous degrees of Sagittarius, is apply
 ing to an opposition of Georgium Sidus, which sufficiently marks
 the calamitous nature of the event.
 DESTRUCTION OF ST. PAUL’s, CovenT GARDEN, BY FIRE
 In the following year, and within two days of the time at
 which the foregoing event happened, St. Paul’s Church, Covent
 Garden, was destroyed by fire; and on the 19th of September,
 the day of the fire, the following scheme will show the state of
 the planets:—
 tip.
 £ ,
 II.
 II
 Vf
 o's] *::sol wi's] "...as *R. & 1 .. 8
 my.
 *
 9 19. 30 || 25.33
 my.
 Now it will be here observed, that Georgium Sidus and Saturn
 are in a platique conjunction in the ominous degrees of Gemini
 that the Moon is applying to the same disastrous place in Saggit
 tarius—Mars and Venus, together with the Sun, in the sign
 Virgo—and Mercury is seen applying to a trine with Georgium
 Sidus and Saturn.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 THE AMPHION MAN OF WAR BLowN UP AT PLYMoUTH
 445
 On the 3d of August, 1796, upwards of 250 men perished by
 the blowing up of the Amphion man of war in Plymouth Harbour,
 at which time the planets were seated as follows:—
 Sl
 |
 &
 |
 II
 II
 3%
 4.
 Qll .44 | D 14.51 | #14.53 | Q.24.6 || ||11.25 R. 3 18.33
 Q.
 go
 *ol #24.24
 The positions of Georgium Sidus and Saturn will be first
 noticed as indicative of disaster from the malignant degrees of
 Gemini, Mars being in Saggittarius, separating from an opposi
 tion of the latter of the aforesaid malevolents, which, to astrol
 ogers, will be sufficient to show how strictly correct the foregoing
 opinions have been formed. ,
 VAST DESTRUCTION OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY BY
 FIRE AT LIVERPOOL
 In 1802, an extraordinary accident by fire happened at Liver
 pool on the 14th of September, by which a great number of
 warehouses was entirely reduced to ashes, and property to the
 amount of more than a million sterling was consumed. At the
 time of this catastrophe, the positions of the planets will be seen
 from the subjoined scale:—
 scale :
 *g
 T
 |
 go
 | my.
 |
 nP
 |
 Li
 O20.52 | p 26.30 | # 9. 11 | p12.9 || || 17.22 | f22.58
 m
 gö
 s' sols'
 Here Saturn was in possession of the 13th degree of Virgo,
 within orbs of a conjunction with Jupiter in the same sign, and
 from which the latter was separating: and, what is still worthy of
 observation, both being in combustion, the Sun having just sep
 arated from conjunctions with both; Mars just entering the 24th
 degree of Gemini; and the ingress of Mercury into the ominous
 sign Libra having been just made.
 SECOND DESTRUCTION OF ASTLEY’s THEATRE BY FIRE; AND
 ALSO OF THAT IN ST.GEORGE's FIELDs, CALLED THE CIRCUS
 On the 21st of September, 1803, Astley's Amphitheatre was
 again the prey of the raging element, and with it twenty of the
 adjoining houses were reduced to a complete wreck. This sec
 ond conflagration was accompanied by the following aspects:
446
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 #2|, .olm S.17|, "sluff. , i.
 O8. 2 | D6. 0 | # 13.17 | \, 31.54 | 18.4 || 3 7.25
 Sl
 my.
 *** ** is
 This scheme presents us with a conjunction of Jupiter and
 Mars in the sign Libra, noted for its ardent effects, and both
 which planets are quartile to Georgium Sidus from cardinal signs.
 The positions of the sun, Saturn, and Mercury, in Virgo, will like
 wise be particularly noticed, together with the opposition of the
 sun and moon from Virgo and Pisces.
 The theatre called the Circus, in St. George's Fields, was de
 stroyed by fire on the 12th of August, in the year 1805, which event
 was accompanied by the following state of the heavenly bodies:—
 Sl
 |
 X
 co
 *
 m
 |
 *
 @19. 14 | D 12, 19 | 1.121.23 b 12.21 || 1:26.59 98.3
 |
 my.
 tly
 $ 10. 11 | # 13.26
 Among the more striking features of these aspects, the con
 junction of Saturn and Mars in Libra will not fail to be noticed,
 nor their quartile configurations with Georgium Sidus from cardi
 nal signs, which occasion their effects to be prodigious. Mercury
 and Venus have also ominous positions in the sign Virgo, where
 they are just separating from a conjunction, both being in oppo
 sition to the moon in Pisces.
 The Theatre Royal, Covent Garden, with some of the adjacent
 houses, was destroyed by fire on the 20th of September, 1808;
 the lives of several persons having been lost in this awful calamity.
 On this occasion, the positions of the several planets were as fol
 lows:
my.
 my.
 *
 ml
 X
 9:...is 5:3. w8.'s '''.is *ās". 3 14.22
 *
 ** **
 Sl
 Thus will it be seen that this unforunate event took place when
 the sun was in the 27th degree of Virgo, with the moon combust,
 and applying to her autumnal conjunctions. The Georgium Sidus
 was also in the ominously flagrant degrees of Libra; and Mars
 was just applying to a quartile with Saturn, in the fiery sign Leo.
 Venus was also in the evil degrees of Libra, which, it will be re
 membered, were pointed out in the former number, as partaking
 of the same influence as those of Virgo and Sagittarius; being
 altogether a combination of destructive influence rarely surpassed.
 Not being in possession of the particular hour when the fire was
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 447
 discovered, and supposing it to have been between one and two
 o'clock in the morning, the places of the sun and moon are set
 down for midnight between the 19th and 20th.
 COMPARISON OF THE ASPECTS CoINCIDING WITH THE FIRE AT
 ST. JAMEs's PALACE IN 1809, AND THOSE ATTENDING THAT
 WHICH RECENTLY HAPPENED AT CARLTON PALACE
 On the 17th of January, 1809, the apartments appropriated to
 the Duke of Cambridge in St. James's Palace were destroyed by
 fire. This is not mentioned as a fire of great extent, but merely
 for the purpose of comparing the aspects by which it was ac
 companied, with those pending the recent fire at Carlton Palace.
 Jan. 19,
 1809.
 Vy
 2:
 ==
 |
 £
 |
 36
O 27.3 | D 16. 7 || ||28.31 || b 1 . 26 || 2: 16.32
 * 7.5:12 #. 2's 'a
 '': lei.ol, R. lutel, "...l. t."
 3 : als #3, " .. 6
 Some persons who have applied a little to astrology, may per
 haps smile at the incongruity of these aspects; but if they will
 please to examine them according to the conditions prescribed in
 the foregoing pages, they will find them by no means so unworthy
 of attention as they may perhaps, at first glance, imagine. In the
 earlier accident it will be seen that Herschell is in Libra, and
 Saturn in Sagittarius, in opposition to Gemini, the ascendant of
 London; and Mars was in the middle of the sign Libra, in trine
 to the monn. On the latter occasion, the Sun, Saturn, Venus, and
 Mercury, appear in Gemini, the ascendant of London; Georgium
 Sidus being in the middle of Capricorn, quartile with Jupiter in
 cardinal signs, and just entering Libra.—Now let it be noted,
 that excepting Georgium Sidus, in the former of these instances,
 not one of the planets is in either of these particularly ominous
 degrees which have been pointed out. Again, the chain of influ
 ence between Saturn and Mars is also imperfect and interrupted,
 and their effects bore an equal proportion to their weakness, for
 though both the royal buildings were injured, neither was de
 molished. The accident at St. James's was somewhat more se
 rious than that at Carlton Palace, and this may, without much
 hesitation, be ascribed to the degree of Libra, occupied by the
 Herschell planet at the time.
448
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 DESTRUCTION OF DRURY-LANE THEATRE BY FIRE, AND THE
 CORRESPONDING SIGNS
 The destructive fire by which the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane,
 was totally demolished, with all its valuable wardrobes, scenery,
 and histrionic appurtenances, happened on the 24th of February,
 1809, when the order of the planets was according to the follow
 ing arrangement:—
 F'. le:32! > *.* w$32! 12 
3.3s) *#53
 *
 on
 3.4| • *.sil * 19.57R.
 3%
 &
 The positions here registered afford a striking difference to
 those by which the accidents at the two palaces were accompa
 nied. Saturn was here in Sagittarius, opposite the ascendant of
 London. Jupiter was verging on the 26th degree of Pisces, from
 whose quartile the moon, in the ascendant of London, had just
 separated. Mars had attained 27 degrees, of Libra, where he was
 then in motion: and Venus was applying to an opposition with him
 in the Equinoctial signs. Mercury is also retrograde in the sign
 Pisces, which is one of the flagrant signs, and a separation from
 his conjunction with Jupiter herein has just taken place.
 THE SIGNS PENDING THE BURNING DOWN OF THE CUSTOM
 HoUSE, LONDON
 That terrible conflagration which consumed the whole Custom
 House, together with many warehouses stored with valuable mer
 chandise, broke out on the 12th of February, 1814, when the
 under-mentioned aspects prevailed:—
 Feb.12,
 te:
 #3, a £2] :* *
 1814. | @23.13 | p 26.32 | H 2.22 | # 25.20 || 2:26.44R.
 cy.
 96.
 #.57 ? 
#20. # 18.37
 :
 &
 *
 In attending to the celestial signs corresponding to this great
 catastrophe, it will be observed, that the Georgian planet was
 within very little more than one degree of the sign Sagittarius,
 in which Saturn was at the time Drury-Lane Theatre was con
 sumed: thus was the ascendant of London, on each occasion, op
 posed by a planet similar in nature and general influence. While
 in this ominous sign, we see Georgium Sidus meeting a retrograde
 quartile of Jupiter from a sign no less malignant in these violent
 combustions, namely, Virgo. Mars is here seen in the latter part
 of Aries, the ascendant of England, and in opposition to his
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 449
 former place on the 24th of February, 1809. The situation of
 Venus, in the latter part of Pisces, not separated more than 30
 minutes from the limits of those remarkable degrees, is a feature
 worthy of notice; and the more so, as she is here slow in motion,
 and just on the eve of retrograding: and consequently her opera
 tions are particularly powerful by her remaining in influence for
 a longer time on the part of the sign shown to be so instrumental
 in marking fires.
 DESTRUCTION OF IMMENSE PROPERTY
 At The Burning of Water-Street Mill, Birmingham; With The
 Concomitant Signs
 On the 15th of March, 1817, a loss of property, estimated at
 200,000l. was sustained by the destruction of Water-Street Mill,
 Birmingham, by fire, and, referring to the positions of the heav
 enly bodies, we find them, at the time, as follows:—
 "#. 9é se:
 1817.
 |
 4.
 |
 :
 |
 £
 Q24.34 | p 27.51 | H 15.45 b 29.54 || || 10.34
 3.
 #2. Q
 1:...] .# 3.31
 This fire will be found, as all the foregoing events of a like
 kind were, to have been accompanied with aspects such as were
 before specified as common to conflagrations. At the time
 this happened, Jupiter was in the 11th degree of Sagittarius, and
 in a platique quartile to the sun in Pisces. The Georgium Sidus
 was also within the compass of the ominous degrees of Sagittarius:
 but the greater part of the influence of this latter planet was di
 rected to subjects of more general importance.
 In the month of April of this same year, several fires happened
 in various parts of the country, particularly in Essex, supposed
 to have been the work of incendiaries: and it is worthy of notice,
 that Jupiter was retrograde between the Ioth and 11th degrees of
 Sagittarius, during the greater part of that month; while both the
 sun and Mercury were passing through the sign Aries. Many
 other configurations of a violent nature happened also about the
 same time, but they would have too much swelled this article had
 they been commented upon. We have, therefore, confined our
 view principally to those more ominous degrees of the signs
 pointed out.
 On the 20th of March, 1824, the magnificent theatre of the
 Odeon, at Paris, was entirely laid waste by fire; and, though not
 immediately within the limits proposed to be taken in considering
450
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 this subject, yet, from many buildings of a like nature having
 been previously destroyed in England, it has been thought a com
 parison of the aspects would be acceptable. We, therefore, call
 the attention of our astrological readers to the following scheme
 of the heavens under which the demolition of the Paris theatre
 took place :—
 March20,\3€l"ll\1"X|lI.9
 1824.
 '
 @29.is »2.29 1,120.11 i,ii..1 110.24
 323.21! 9 1”: 12!; i§.i4
 Here let it be first noticed, that the Sun, Saturn, and Mercury,
 are all together in Pisces, Saturn being just within the degrees of
 f
 lagration, which have been before so frequently alluded to, and
 from which Mercury was just separating; to an opposition of all
 of whom the moon applied. Mars also, between the ominous de
 grees of Gemini, is opposed to Georgium Sidus in Sagittarius;
 and Venus has just entered the sign Aries. Every experienced
 astrologer will doubtlessly consider the testimony here adduced
 as strongly corroborative of the violent character of the signs and
 degrees referred to in our former positions.
 A FIRE IN EDINBURGH
 On the 24th of June, 1824, many families in Edinburgh were
 reduced to the greatest distress by a fire which broke out in that
 city, and consumed a great number of houses; and we now pro
 ceed to lay down the positions of the heavens pending this recent
 calamity :—
 June24,
 Q3
 _~'8
 V?
 I1
 1824. i@2.29j 929.49! n14.15R.i I; 1.55ju1s.i
 11'
 & I n j I:
 36.53 g,'23.9. aims
 The first thing that particularly strikes our attention in this
 sketch, is the posture of the planet Jupiter in Cancer, the ascendant
 of Scotland, where he had been for many months preceding the‘
 catastrophe, and for at least two months previous to the fire,
 within orbs of an opposition to Georgium Sidus from tropical
 signs. We are next reminded that the sun, on the day of the fire,
 is egressing from Gemini, and applying to a quartile with Mars.
 Saturn, at the time when this fire happened, had not been in the
 sign Gemini more than sixteen days; and with whom Mars, who
 was in the sign Libra, was within orbs of a time aspect. Venus
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 451
 and Mars, it will be farther observed, both occupy the destructive
 degrees of Gemini.
 .
 In a preceding part of this work, it was remarked, that the
 sextile and trine of Saturn and Mars, from the signs Aries, Gemini,
 Libra, and Sagittarius, have always been remarkably evil; and
 sometimes have proved even more so than their quartiles and op
 positions from other signs: and such aspects will be found to
 seldom occur without being followed by very destructive fires,
 dreadful suicides, horrid murders, and untimely deaths.
 The chief of those calamities, of a public nature, which have
 happened in these parts for the last thirty years from fire, and
 the configurations of the heavens having been attached to each
 event, a fair opportunity is thus afforded of determining the
 aspects that denote great conflagrations. The reader will have
 the goodness to remember that, upon commencing this retrospect
 ive survey, a rule was laid down as to the particular signs, and
 particular degrees of such signs, that predominate over events of
 this nature, according as they happen to be excited by the influ
 ence of any planetary transit. The events have then been col
 lected in regular succession, without selecting or omitting any
 case of public importance; and by examining them, one after
 another, as they have happened, the fidelity of the rules pre
 viously laid down will be conspicuously evident.
 The science of astrology is founded upon the conincidence
 between the celestial influences or signs and terrestrial events.
 Facts from time immemorial have been collected, and found to
 uniformly correspond with peculiar aspects: hence, in the course
 of time, a body of rules have been framed for the purpose of
 prejudging what events might be approaching from the return of
 those mutual configurations among the planetary bodies which
 are constantly taking place. If a rule has held good in one age,
 it may be expected to do so in another: and if it has been verified
 from age to age, none but the most conceited theorists will ven
 ture to dispute its validity. The rule here proposed concerning
 calamities by fire has, we trust, been sufficiently attested to claim
 the faith of every practitioner in the science: and we venture to
 say that, if judiciously employed, it will very rarely, if ever, be
 found to fail.
 RAPHAEL.
 THE ASPECTS OF THE PLANETS WHICH ACCOMPA
 NIED TWO PRODIGIOUS FIRES
 On the 2d of September, 1666, the great fire of London broke
 out, which burnt down, in the space of three days, 13,200 dwell
 ing-houses, and 89 parish churches, the whole loss being esti
 mated at ten millions sterling, at the value of money in those days,
 ‘\
452
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 which was more than treble what it now is. The positions of the
 planets at the commencement of the fire were as follows:—
 #|off." • 3.s win! ,#1. | **ur.
 ml
 &
 #38 9.
 As
 *
 #.s.l § 13.53
 You will here see that the planet Jupiter had just come to the
 ominous degrees of Pisces, which we have, in former cases, shown
 to indicate fires, where he is retrograde, and the sun in Virgo
 applying to opposition with him. The planets Mercury and Venus
 also were both in Libra, where their influence, as before pointed
 out, is remarkable for causing fires; and the former of these is,
 as you will observe, in quartile with Saturn from the sign Capri
 corn. The Georgium Sidus, we may also add, occupied a place in
 the ominous sign Sagittarius.
 THE DESTRUCTION OF THE OPERA HOUSE, HAY
 MARKET, AND MANCHESTER THEATRES, BY FIRE
 Wetake the opportunity of directing the attention of the reader
 to two other cases, equally confirmatory as the former of our
 opinions.
 On the 17th of June, 1789, the Opera House in the Haymarket
 was entirely destroyed by fire; and on the following day the
 Manchester Theatre shared the same fate, when the planets were
 posited as follows:—
 June 17,
 It
 |
 op
 my.
 |
 >e
 |
 £"le:.3s 3.29|wit.21 × 3.6l # 3
 Sl
 8
 gö
 • *.s. 2 
£1, # 21.34
 ©
 N
It may now be perceived that the sun had just separated from
 a quartile aspect with the planet Saturn, the former being within
 the evil degrees of Gemini, while the latter is approaching those
 in Pisces. The planet Herschell is, also, within orbs of opposi
 tion with Saturn: and the latter of these planets is within one de
 gree of the place of Jupiter at the fire of 1666; a strong testi
 mony that the degrees we have before mentioned are very apt
 to cause fires.
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 453
 A QUOTATION FROM A WORK OF SINGULAR MERIT
 Published By That Eminent Lawyer, Jeremy Bentham, Esq.
 “On the question what law is, so long as the rule of ‘action is
 kept in the state of common, alias unwritten, alias imaginary law,
 authority, though next to nothing, is every thing. The question is,
 what, on a given occasion, A. (the judge) is likely to think?
 Wait until your fortune has been spent in the inquiry, and you
 will know. But, forasmuch as it is naturally a man’s wish to be
 able to give a guess what the result will eventually be, before he
 has spent his fortune in the view; if possible, to avoid spending
 his fortune, and getting nothing in return for it, he applies,
 through the medium of B. (an attorney) for an opinion, to C.
 (a counsel) who, considering what D. (a former judge) has, on
 a subject supposed to' be more or less analogous to the one in
 question, said, or been supposed to say, deduces therefrom his
 guess as to what, when the time comes, Judge A. he thinks, will
 say, and gives it you. A shorter way would be to put the ques
 tion at once to A.; but for obvious reasons this is not permitted.
 “On many cases, again, as well-grounded a guess might be
 had of an astrologer for five shillings, as of a counsel for twice
 or thrice as many guineas: but the lawyer considers the astrologer
 as a smuggler, and puts him down.”
CHAPTER XXXVII
 EARTHQUAKE AND VIOLENT HEAT
 AT LISBON, PORTUGAL
 In the Times newspaper of August the 7th, is contained an ac
 count of an earthquake, accompanied by extraordinary atmos
 pheric phenomena, which recently visited Lisbon; and from which
 the following is an extract :—
 “Lisbon, July 19th, I824.—This morning, at five o’clock, a
 slight shock of an earthquake was felt in this city. We have had
 intense heat for three days. Farenheit’s theremometer has been
 at 100 degrees in the shade.
 “The excessive heats experienced in this city on the 18th, 19th,
 and 20th of June, and which did such damage to the fields, de
 serve also some observation.
 “On the 17th and 18th, Farenheit’s thermometer, in the open
 air, and in the shade, was from 92 degrees to 96, at two o’clock ;
 and from 79 to 83 degrees, at midnight.
 “On the 19th, exposed to a hot wind from the north-east, it
 rose to 105 degrees. This burning wind did immense damage.
 The wind was so hot that the thermometer, even at midnight,
 when exposed to it, stood at 91 degrees.
 “On the morning of the 20th, it fell to 83 degrees; rose at two
 in the afternoon to 103 degrees; and at midnight was again at 83
 degrees.
 “On the 21st and 22d, a sea-breeze from the south-west cooled
 454
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 455
 the air, so that the thermometer was only 81 degrees, and 76 de
 grees in the hot hours: and it fell at midnight to 73 degrees, and
 to 68 degrees.
 “It is to be noticed, that on the 19th the thermometer, in the
 open air, did not rise to more than 100 degrees.
 “It is impossible to calculate the damage done by the terrible
 phenomena of the 19th; we can state, however, that the vines, in
 elevated situations, exposed to the north-east, entirely lost the
 abundant fruit with which they were loaded. We are also in
 formed, that a great many persons working in the fields were mor
 tally struck by the malignant influence of the excessive heat.
 Many animals shared the same fate: and the leaves of trees and
 other plants were completely dried up and reduced to dust.”
 Whatever causes in nature might have conspired to produce
 these extraordinary phenomena, it is not easy to determine. The
 sign Libra is, however, considered to be the ascendant of Lisbon:
 and, admitting this to have been correctly appointed, as the pres
 ent circumstances bespeak it, the catastrophe may be accounted
 for as follows: The hot, dry, fiery, malignant, violent planet,
 Mars—a planet ever celebrated for producing pestilential heat
 and ungenial winds, was making his transit through the ascendant
 of Lisbon at the time of the exraordinary weather described in
 the account. He was also in quartile to Georgium Sidus in Capri
 corn and to Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, and the Sun, all in the
 tropical sign Cancer, on the 19th of July, when the shock of the
 earthquake was felt.
 On the 18th of June, when the hot winds commenced, Mars
 was in the beginning of the sign Libra, in aspect to Mercury and
 Saturn, who had just changed his sign, and entered Gemini: in
 which sign, also, at the time, were Venus, Mercury, and the Sun,
 opposing Pisces, the general ascendant of the Portuguese nation,
 in which sign was seated the moon.
 These positions, taken altogether, had no doubt a great share
 in producing the strange consequences described: but much may
 be nevertheless ascribed to the approaching quartile of Mars with
 Jupiter, which planet has much to do in whatever relates to
 Portugal: and this approaching quartile is also from powerful
 signs; the one tropical, the other equinoctial.
 Be, however, the planetary cause whatever it may, we have
 given underneath the positions of the orbs for the two chief days
 when the influence prevailed, that our readers may make what
 addition they please to our observations.
 June 18, 1824. | @ 27 II | D 13% #28w?R. blII | 1:1622.
 34* | ? 13II | 8811.
 July 19, 1824. | @ 26 ca | D 28on H13w?R. l k 4 II | 1:23a
 3 192. $23 © | 81922
456
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 THE CONSTELLATION OF
 Elie fimufliern Qtruss
 The following account of this remarkable group of stars is
 taken from Professor Humboldt’s interesting travels.
 “The lower regions of the air, he conceives, were loaded with
 vapors for some days. We saw distinctly, for the first time, the
 Cross of the South only in the night of the 4th and 5th of July,
 in the 16th degree of latitude. It was strongly inclined, and ap
 peared from time to time between the clouds ; the centre of which,
 furrowed by uncondensed lightnings, reflected a silver light.
 “The pleasure felt on discovering the Southern Cross was
 warmly shared by such of the crew as had lived in the colonies.
 “In the solitude of the seas we hail the Cross as a friend from
 whom we have long been separated; and among the Portuguese
 and Spaniards, peculiar motives seem to increase this feeling. A
 religious sentiment attaches them to the constellation; the form
 of which recalls the sign of the faith planted by their ancestors
 in the deserts of the new-found world.
 “The two great stars which mark the summit and the foot of
 the Cross having nearly the same right ascension, it follows that
 the constellation is almost vertical at the moment it passes the
 meridian. This circumstance is known to every nation that lives
 beyond the tropics, or in the southern hemisphere.
 “It is known at what hour of the night, in different seasons,
 the Southern Cross is erect or inclined. It is a time-piece that
 advances very regularly nearly four minutes a day; and no other
 group of stars exhibits to the naked eye an observation of time
 so easily made.
 “How often have we heard our guides exclaim, in the Savan
 nahs of Venezuela, or in the desert, extending from Lima to
 Truxillo, ‘Midnight is past, the Cross begins to bend!’ How often
 these words reminded us of that affecting scene, where Paul and
 Virginia, seated near the source of the river of Lataniers, con
 versed together for the last time, and when the Old Man, at the
 sight of the Southern Cross, warns them, ‘that it is time to sepa
 rate.’
 .
 “This constellation is in about 185 deg. of longitude, and its
 south polar distance being only about 30 deg. it cannot be seen in
 the northern parts of Europe.”
 The following beautiful lines owe their origin to the above
 quotations: .
ANCIENT MANUSCRIPTS
 457
 THE SILENCE AND GRANDEUR OF MIDNIGHT
 In the silence and grandeur of midnight I tread
 Where savannahs in boundless magnificence spread;
 And, bearing sublimely their snow-wreaths on high,
 The far cordilleras unite with the sky.
 The fern-tree waves o'er me; the fire-fly's red light,
 With its quick glancing splendor, illumines the night:
 And I read in each tint of the sky and the earth,
 How distant my steps from the place of my birth !
 But to thee, as thy lode-stars resplendently burn
 In their clear depths of blue, with devotion I turn,
 Bright Cross of the South ! and beholding thee shine,
 Scarce regret the lov’d land of the olive and vine.
 Thou recallest the ages, when first o'er the main
 My fathers unfolded the streamers of Spain,
 And planted their faith in the regions that see
 Its unperishing symbol emblazoned in thee!
 How oft, in their course o'er the oceans unknown,
 Where all was mysterious, and awfully lone,
 Hath their spirit been cheer'd by thy light, when the deep
 Reflected its brilliance in tremulous sleep.
 As the vision that rose to the Lord of the world
 When first his bright banner of faith was unfurl’d—
 Even such, to the heroes of Spain, when their prow
 Made the billows a path of their glory, wert thou!
 And to me, as I traverse the world of the west,
 Through deserts of beauty, in stillness of rest,
 By forests and rivers, untamed in their pride,.
 Thy beams have a language, thy course is a guide.
 Shine onI my own land is a far-distant spot,
 And the stars of thy spheres can enlighten it not;
 And the eyes which I love, though e'en now they may be
 O'er the firmament wand'ring, can gaze not on thee!
 But thou to my thoughts art the pure blazing shrine,
 A fount of bright hopes, and of visions divine;
 And my soul, as an eagle, exulting and free,
 Soars high o'er the Andes, to mingle with thee!
458
 THE OLD BOOK OF MAGIC
 SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATIONS
 Qputs 611 flibe Sum
 An amateur of Astronomy at Prague, M. de Biela, an officer
 of grenadiers, remarked two facts highly important to that sci
 ence, in the last comet, which was discovered by him on the 30th
 December, last year.
 The first of these facts confirms an opinion which he had pre
 viously advanced, that the proximity of comets has an influence
 on the luminous state of the Sun. In fact, from the 23d and 24th .
 of October, 1822, a period at which a comet was in its perihelion,
 until the 5th of December, 1823, he did not observe any spot in
 the Sun. On the 5th December, he saw a large spot, which reg
 ularly increased on the surface of the Sun till the 13th of Decem
 ber. On the 21st of the same month, a second large spot was
 observed, about to quit the surface of the Sun, and which had, no
 doubt, been produced some short time before. On the 30th De
 cember the first spot again became visible, on that half of the
 Sun which was turned towards us, and continued regularly to
 enlarge, until the 6th of January, 1824, when gloomy weather
 prevented it from being longer observed.
 It is calculated that the comet passed into its perihelion in the
 night between the 9th and I0 of December, at a distance from the
 Sun of about half that of Mercury.
 On the 7th of January, the time at which the first spot ought
 to have shown itself for the third time on the Sun, it did not ap
 pear, and the Sun remained without spots until the 16th of Janu
 ary.
 If this discovery of a relation between comets and the spots in
 the Sun should be confirmed, it will be very‘important; for several
 astronomers besides Herschell have remarked, that the spots in
 the Sun have a sensible influence on our temperature.