DISCLAIMER: Cryptocurrencies, stocks and options trading have large potential 
rewards, but also large potential risk. You must be aware of the risks and be willing to 
accept them in order to invest in the stocks and options markets. Don’t trade with 
money you can’t afford to lose. This is neither a solicitation nor an offer to Buy/Sell 
stocks or options. No representation is being made that any account will or is likely to 
achieve profits or losses similar to those discussed in this report. The past performance 
of any trading system or methodology is not necessarily indicative of future results. All 
trades, patterns, charts, systems, etc., discussed in this report are for illustrative 
purposes only and not to be construed as specific advisory recommendations. 
Information contained in this correspondence is intended for informational purposes 
only and was obtained from sources believed to be reliable. Information is in no way 
guaranteed. No guarantee of any kind is implied or possible where projections of future 
conditions are attempted. 
Copyright © by Profits Run, Inc. 
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic, or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and 
retrieval system. 
Published by: 
Profits Run, Inc. 
28339 Beck Rd Unit F6 
Wixom, MI 48393 
www.profitsrun.com 
Introduction 
Bitcoin is the most popular cryptocurrency… and it’s not even a close 
comparison between Bitcoin and the next closest competitor as measured 
by market cap.  
The primary reason why Bitcoin enjoys its current “king of the hill” status is 
because Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency to gain widespread 
recognition.   
While it may appear that Bitcoin will forever be the undisputed leader in the 
cryptocurrency markets, things change fast in the tech space. 
Consider this: The first home computer wasn’t produced by Apple or IBM.  
It was the Compucolor by the Compucolor Corporation. Even though this 
company was the first to create the home computer, Compucolor 
Corporation was out of business by 1983.  
The next time you go to search for something on the internet, you probably 
won’t use Lycos, Alta Vista or Ask Jeeves.  Those search engines all pre
date Google, but these days Google is clearly the dominant search engine. 
And of course, I’m sure you remember MySpace.  It was the first wildly 
popular social networking site.  Until Mark Zuckerburg came along and 
steamrolled Myspace on this way to building Facebook into the global 
powerhouse that is today. 
My point is this:  While Bitcoin currently holds the top spot at the podium, 
there’s simply no telling what will happen in the future.  There are over 
13,000 cryptocurrencies (at the time of this writing.) 
2 
www.profitsrun.com   
The vast majority of these cryptocurrencies will fizzle on the launch pad.  In 
10 years from now, maybe Bitcoin will be the last cryptocurrency standing.  
It’s certainly possible and for that reason it only makes sense to buy and 
hold some Bitcoin for the long-term outlook. 
But there’s an old saying in business that “1 is the most dangerous 
number.”  If you only have 1 employee or 1 key vendor or 1 client, you are 
at great risk.   
Well, if you only own Bitcoin you are taking a great risk.  Cryptocurrencies 
and blockchain technology are clearly here to stay.   We can be reasonably 
confident that some form of cryptocurrency will eventually become “the 
future of money” but trying to accurately predict which cryptocurrency will 
eventually assume the throne is impossible. 
For that reason, it only makes sense to buy & hold a number of key 
cryptocurrencies beyond Bitcoin.   In this report, I’ll show you a few other 
cryptocurrencies you may wish to consider adding to your cryptocurrency 
portfolio. 
Please remember this is NOT individual investment advice and you should 
do your own due diligence before investing.  All investing carries risk of loss 
and you should never invest more than you can afford to lose. 
3 
www.profitsrun.com   
3 Digital Currencies To Buy & Hold Forever 
Ethereum (ETH) 
When you think of blockchain technology, you immediately think of Bitcoin, 
right?  
After all, blockchain is most famously the technology behind the world’s 
most famous cryptocurrency.  However, Bitcoin is just one of several 
hundred different ways to apply blockchain technology these days.  
There are applications out there now that go WAY beyond simply acting as 
a ledger for digital currencies. 
In the infancy of blockchain tech, building blockchain applications required 
an impressive technical background that included programming, 
mathematics, and cryptography. This rare combination of necessary skills 
made developing blockchain-ready applications both time consuming and 
expensive. 
Nowadays, the barriers preventing developers from working with 
blockchain applications are quickly disappearing. Apps are being 
developed and deployed faster than ever before. 
Newly created open source software platforms are providing tools to make 
decentralized app development much easier. The prerequisite technical 
skills that blockchain technology required from developers is shrinking, 
while the suite of tools available to them grows larger with each day. 
Ethereum, one of the first open software platforms out there, enabled 
developers to easily build and deploy decentralized applications before 
anyone else. 
4 
www.profitsrun.com   
An Open Software Platform? I Thought Ethereum Was A 
Cryptocurrency Like Bitcoin… 
Much like Bitcoin, Ethereum operates on a distributed public blockchain 
network. There is a long list of technical differences between the two of 
them, but what stands out the most is that Ethereum was created with a 
specific purpose in mind that differs greatly from Bitcoin’s. 
Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency ever created back in 2009, and it was 
made to simply serve as currency – in the form of a peer to peer electronic 
cash system.  
Bitcoin’s blockchain is used to track the ownership of digital coins, while 
Ethereum’s was created to power decentralized applications. 
Because Ethereum has inherent utility built-in, it is commonly referred to as 
a “token” as opposed to Bitcoin, which serves only as a currency. We call 
digital currencies without any utility “coins”.    
So beyond being just a tradable currency, Ether (a type of crypto token that 
fuels the Ethereum network), is used by application developers to pay for 
transaction fees and services on the Ethereum network.  
Why Should I Hold Ethereum Long-Term? 
Right now, cryptocurrency sits at a crossroad. We have the “old school” 
coins of the past (like Bitcoin) competing with the “new school” tokens that 
are being used for something other than just being currency. 
Ethereum is the most popularly held token available, and hundreds of new 
cryptocurrencies were created last year based off the Ethereum blockchain. 
It is the de-facto “token” and is going to enjoy strong growth as more and 
more child tokens are spawned from it. 
5 
www.profitsrun.com   
A day will come when decentralized applications are the norm, and 
Ethereum will be undoubtedly leading the way. 
Ripple (XRP)  
Ripple is a real-time gross settlement system (RTGS), currency exchange, 
and remittance network. 
You may be asking, “what the heck does that mean?” …and you wouldn’t 
be alone. Beloved by financial institutions, hated by hardcore crypto 
investors, Ripple is seen by many as the “anti-Bitcoin”.  
It uses a network of servers that constantly compare transaction records to 
one another, validating transactions much faster than Bitcoin has in the 
past. Through Ripple’s exchange, any kind of currency can be exchanged – 
including fiat currency, gold, and even airline miles. 
Ripple allows two parties to avoid the fees and wait times typically 
associated with traditional banking and cryptocurrency transactions.  
Blockchain technology has a long list of benefits, but speed is not one of 
them. This is where Ripple is fundamentally different from Bitcoin. 
How Is It Different, Exactly? 
Many investors mistake Ripple’s validating servers and consensus 
mechanism with blockchain technology.  
While Ripple is consensus oriented, just like any other blockchain-based 
cryptocurrency, it does not rely on a blockchain. It is simply a network of 
validating servers. 
6 
www.profitsrun.com   
Because of this, banks worldwide have fallen in love with Ripple. Payment 
providers are also jumping on board more and more with each passing day. 
While Ripple can be used for small-scale person-to-person transactions, 
that isn’t its primary focus. Ripple is made for enterprise level transactions 
by design. It was created to move large sums of money around the world 
as quickly and cheaply as possible.  
So far, Ripple has experienced absolutely incredible growth since it was 
created back in 2012, largely in part to its ability to handle upwards of 
50,000 transactions per second. That puts it on the same level as Visa 
credit and debit cards. 
Ripple isn’t really a token (or even a traditional cryptocurrency) like 
Ethereum. The value doesn’t come from Ripple’s inherent utility. It instead 
comes from its ability to be easily transacted. And so far, some of the 
world’s biggest financial institutions have taken notice – buying up Ripple in 
droves. For early Ripple investors, this was great news. 
However, because of the widespread adoption by banks, some 
cryptocurrency investors absolutely despise Ripple. After all, 
cryptocurrencies were created to wrestle power away from the banks and 
“democratize” currency.  
Some Investors Hate Ripple? 
Ripple critics view owning the cryptocurrency as a form of trading personal 
liberty for short-term monetary gain. Is this true? Maybe. But what I can 
guarantee you is this: The financial institutions that jump on the 
cryptocurrency bandwagon won’t be disappearing any time soon.  
7 
www.profitsrun.com   
Ripple is the best option for banks to maintain liquidity, bar-none, and I 
can’t see this changing in the foreseeable future. As a result, Ripple is 
absolutely one of the three cryptocurrencies to buy and hold long-term.  
Litecoin (LTC) 
Back in 2011, a Google software engineer by the name of Charlie Lee 
discovered a dark web marketplace called “Silk Road” – where anonymous 
users traded Bitcoin for goods and services, some more unsavory than 
others. 
This was only two years after Bitcoin was created, while Bitcoin was still 
very “niche”, even among the geekiest of web users. After learning about 
Bitcoin through Silk Road and familiarizing himself with blockchain 
technology, Lee created his first digital currency under the name “Fairbrix”.  
Fairbrix was a clone of a now-defunct cryptocurrency called Tenebrix, 
which was popular in 2011 but ultimately fell apart after it was revealed that 
its founder was holding millions of pre-mined coins privately.  Due to the 
failure of Tenebrix, Fairbrix collapsed shortly thereafter amid additional 
technical problems caused by Lee’s inexperience.  
In October 2011, Lee tried again by creating a hard fork of the most popular 
cryptocurrency at the time – Bitcoin. Named “Litecoin”, his second attempt 
at creating a cryptocurrency stuck. Lee observed the issues that Bitcoin 
faced with increased scalability and wanted to make a cryptocurrency that 
could handle the demands of being highly transacted. In his original vision, 
Litecoin would serve as a complement to Bitcoin that could be used for 
payments much more easily.  
8 
www.profitsrun.com   
Litecoin is most notable for pioneering Segregated Witness (also known as 
SegWit), a process that reduces transactions times and costs dramatically 
for cryptocurrencies. You can think of Litecoin as a more lightweight, easily 
transactable version of Bitcoin (hence the name).  
So What Makes Litecoin A Good Long-Term Investment? 
Litecoin is one of the few altcoins (cryptocurrencies that aren’t Bitcoin) to 
have survived since the early days of crypto. It has maintained its spot as a 
“top 10” market cap crypto, widely held by investors since 2011. That might 
not seem like a very long time, but a crypto that’s been around for that long 
practically makes it a dinosaur in an industry that was started in 2009. 
Since its inception, Litecoin has managed to be “digital silver” to Bitcoin’s 
“digital gold” status.     
While Bitcoin has been mostly used to store value throughout its history, 
Litecoin will likely be the first cryptocurrency to be accepted as a popular 
payment option. Because of this Litecoin will be a large contributor to taking 
crypto mainstream – and investors who are bold enough to buy some now 
will be handsomely rewarded for it. 
9 
www.profitsrun.com   
Conclusion 
As a society, we’ve been using paper money for over 300 years.  Yet just 
as cell phones replaced landlines, just as email replaced “snail mail” it’s 
only a matter of time until digital currencies replace government-backed 
paper money. 
It may not happen today or tomorrow but eventually it’s the only logical 
conclusion.  And while there’s no way of predicting which cryptocurrencies 
will establish lasting dominance, by holding a small “basket” of leading 
digital currencies you may end up holding what could become the world’s 
most valuable asset in the coming years. 
10 
www.profitsrun.com   