Table of Contents
 PENGUIN BOOKS THE COMPLETE DEAD SEA SCROLLS IN
 ENGLISH
 Title Page
 Copyright Page
 Dedication
 Preface
 Introduction
 A. The Rules
 The Community Rule - (IQS, 4Q255-64, 4Q280, 286-7, 4Q502, 5QI,
 13)
 Community Rule manuscripts from Cave 4
 Entry into the Covenant - (4Q275)
 Four Classes of the Community - (4Q279)
 The Damascus Document - (CD, 4Q265-73, 5Q12, 6Q15)
 Damascus Document manuscripts from Cave 4
 The Messianic Rule - (1QSa=1Q28a)
 The War Scrol - (IQM, 1Q33, 4Q491-7, 4Q471)
 The War Scrol from Cave 4 - (4Q491, 493)
 The Book of War - (4Q285, 11Q14)
 The Temple Scrol - (11QT=11Q19-21, 4Q365a, 4Q524)
 MMT (Miqsat Ma‘ase Ha- Torah) - Some Observances of the Law 
(4Q394-9)
 The Wicked and the Holy - (4Q181)
 4QHalakhah A - (4Q251)
 4QHalakhah B - (4Q264a)
 4QTohorot (Purities) A - (4Q274)
4QTohorot B-B - (40276-7)
 4Q Harvesting - (4Q284a)
 The Master’s Exhortation to the Sons of Dawn - (40298)
 4Q Men Who Err - (40306)
 Register of Rebukes - (4Q477)
 Remonstrances (before Conversion?) - (4Q471)
 B. Hymns and Poems
 The Thanksgiving Hymns - (IQH, IQ36, 4Q427-32)
 Hymnic Fragment - (4Q433a)
 Apocryphal Psalms (I) - (IQPs=IQ5,4Q88)
 Apocryphal Psalms (I) - (4Q88)
 Apocryphal Psalms ( I) - (11QapPs=11Q11)
 Non-canonical Psalms - (4Q380-81)
 Lamentations - (4Q]179,4Q501)
 Songs for the Holocaust of the Sabbath - (4Q400—407, 11Q17,
 Masada 1039-200)
 Poetic Fragments on Jerusalem and ‘King’ Jonathan - (4Q448 )
 Hymn of Glorification A and B - (4Q491, fr. 11—4Q471b)
 C. Calendars, Liturgies and Prayers
 Calendars of Priestly Courses - (4Q320-30, 337)
 Calendrical Document C - (4Q326)
 Calendrical Document D - (4Q394 1-2)
 Calendric Signs (Otot) - (4Q319)
 ‘Horoscopes’ or Astrological Physiognomies - (4Q186, 4Q534,
 4Q561)
 Phases of the Moon - (4Q317)
 A Zodiacal Calendar with a Brontologion - (4Q318)
 Order of Divine Office - (4Q334)
The Words of the Heavenly Lights - (4Q504—6)
 Liturgical Prayer - (1Q 34 and 34 bis)
 Prayers for Festivals - (4Q 507-9)
 Daily Prayers - (4Q 503)
 Prayer or Hymn Celebrating the Morning and the Evening - (4Q 408)
 Blessings - (1QSb=1Q28b)
 Benedictions - (4Q 280, 286-90)
 Confession Ritual - (4Q393)
 Purification Ritual A - (4Q 512)
 Purification Ritual B - (4Q 4]14)
 A Liturgical Work - (4Q 392-3)
 D. Historical and Apocalyptic Works
 Apocalyptic Chronology or Apocryphal Weeks - (4Q 247)
 Historical Text A - (4Q248)
 Historical Texts C-E (formerly Mishmarot C) - 4Q331-3)
 Historical Text F - (4Q468e)
 The Triumph of Righteousness or Mysteries - (1Q27, 4Q299-3011)
 Time of Righteousness - (4Q 215a)
 The Renewed Earth - (4Q 475)
 A Messianic Apocalypse - (4Q521)
 E. Wisdom Literature
 The Seductress - (4Q184)
 Exhortation to Seek Wisdom - (4Q185)
 A Parable of Warning - (4Q302)
 Sapiential Didactic Work A - (4Q412)
 A Sapiential Work (i) - (4Q413)
 A Sapiential Work (ii) - (4Q415-18, 423, 1Q26)
 A Sapiential Work (iii): Ways of Righteousness - (4Q420-21)
A Sapiential Work Instruction-like Composition - (4Q424)
 The Two Ways - (4Q473)
 Bless, My Soul - (Barki nafshi, 4Q434-438)
 A Leader’s Lament - (4Q439)
 Fight against Evil Spirits - (4Q444)
 Songs of the Sage - (4Q510-11)
 Beatitudes - (4Q525)
 F. Bible Interpretation
 Aramaic Bible Translations - (Targums)
 The Targum of Job - (11Q10,4Q157)
 The Targum of Leviticus
 Appendix
 G. Biblica ly Based Apocryphal Works
 Jubilees - (4Q216-28, 1Q17-18, 2Q19-20, 3Q5, 4Q482(?), 11Q12)
 The Prayer of Enosh and Enoch - (4Q369)
 The Book of Enoch - (4Q201-2, 204-12)
 The Book of Giants - (1Q23-4, 2Q26, 4Q203, 530-33, 6Q8)
 An Admonition Associated with the Flood - (4Q370, 4Q185)
 The Ages of the Creation - (4Q180)
 The Book of Noah - (1Q19, 1Q19 bis, 4Q534-6, 6Q8,19)
 Words of the Archangel Michael - (4Q529, 6Q23)
 The Testament of Levi (i) - (4Q213-114, 1Q21)
 Testaments of the Patriarchs: the Testament of Levi or Testament of
 Jacob - ...
 The Testament of Judah and Joseph - (4Q538-9)
 The Testament of Naphtali - (4Q215)
 Narrative and Poetic Composition (formerly ‘A Joseph Apocryphon’) 
(4Q371-3)
The Testament of Qahat - (4Q542)
 The Testament of Amram - (4Q543-9)
 The Words of Moses - (1Q22)
 Sermon on the Exodus and the Conquest of Canaan - (4Q374)
 A Moses Apocryphon - (4Q375)
 A Moses Apocryphon - (4Q376, 1Q29)
 A Moses Apocryphon - (4Q408)
 Apocryphal Pentateuch B (formerly ‘A Moses Apocryphon) - (4Q377)
 A Moses (or David) Apocryphon - (4Q373, 2Q22)
 Prophecy of Joshua - (4Q522, 5Q9)
 A Joshua Apocryphon (i) or Psalms of Joshua - (4Q378—9)
 A Joshua Apocryphon (ii) (Masada 1039—211)
 The Samuel Apocryphon - (4Q160)
 A Paraphrase on Kings - (4Q382)
 An Elisha Apocryphon - (4Q481)
 A Zedekiah Apocryphon - (4Q470)
 A Historico-theological Narrative based on Genesis and Exodus 
(4Q462—4)
 Tobit - (4Q196—200
 Apocryphon of Jeremiah - (4Q383, 385a, 387, 387a, 388a, 389—90)
 The New Jerusalem - (4Q554-5, 5Q15, 1Q32, 2Q24, 4Q232, 11Q18)
 Pseudo-Ezekiel - (4Q385, 386, 385b, 388, 385c)
 The Prayer of Nabonidus - (4Q242)
 Para-Danielic Writings - (4Q243-5)
 The Four Kingdoms - (4Q552-3)
 An Aramaic Apocalypse - (4Q246)
 Proto-Esther (?) - (4Q550)
 List of False Prophets - (4Q339)
 List of Netinim - (4Q340)
 H. Miscelanea
 The Copper Scrol - (3Q15)
 Cryptic Texts - (4Q249, 250, 313)
Two Qumran Ostraca
 I. Appendix
 Index of QumranTexts
 Major Editions of Qumran Manuscripts
 General Bibliography
 General Index
 THE STORY OF PENGUIN CLASSICS
PENGUIN BOOKS THE COMPLETE DEAD SEA
 SCROLLS IN ENGLISH
 Geza Vermes was born in Hungary in 1924. He studied in Budapest
 and in Louvain, where he read Oriental history and languages and in
 1953 obtained a doctorate in theology with a dissertation on the
 historical framework of the Dead Sea Scrols. From 1957 to 1991 he
 taught in England at the universities of Newcastle upon Tyne (1957-65)
 and Oxford (1965—91). He is now Professor Emeritus of Jewish
 Studies and Emeritus Felow of Wolfson Colege, but continues to
 teach at the Oriental Institute in Oxford. He has edited the Journal of
 Jewish Studies since 1971, and since 1991 he has been director of
 the Oxford Forum for Qumran Research at the Oxford Centre for
 Hebrew and Jewish Studies. Professor Vermes is a Felow of the
 British Academy and of the European Academy of Arts, Sciences and
 Humanities. He is the holder of an Oxford D.Litt. and of honorary
 doctorates from the universities of Edinburgh, Durham and Sheffield.
 His first article on the Dead Sea Scrols appeared in 1949 and his first
 book, Les manuscrits du désert de Juda,in 1953. It was translated
 into English in 1956 as Discovery in the Judean Desert. He is also the
 author of Scripture and Tradition in Judaism (1961, 1973, 1983);
 Jesus the Jew (1973, 1976, 1981, 1983); The Dead Sea Scrols:
 Qumran in Perspective (1977, 1981, 1982, 1994); Jesus and the
 World ofJudaism (1983, 1984); The Religion ofJesusthe Jew (1993);
 and (with Martin Goodman) The Essenes According to the Classical
 Sources (1989); (with Philip Alexander) Discoveries in the Judaean
 Desert XXVI (1998) and (also with Philip Alexander) XXXVI (2000);
 An Introduction to the Complete Dead Sea Scro ls (1999, 2000); The
 Dead Sea Scrols (The Folio Society, 2000); The Changing Faces of
 Jesus (2000); The Authentic Gospel of Jesus (2003) and Jesus in his
 Jewish Context (2003). He played a leading part in the rewriting of
 Emil Schiirer’s classic work The History of the Jewish People in the
 Age of Jesus Christ (1973-87). His autobiography, Providential
Accidents (1998), contains a vivid personal account of a life-long
 involvement with the Dead Sea Scrols.


PENGUIN BOOKS
 Published by the Penguin Group
 Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London WC2R ORL, England
 Penguin Putnam Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
 Penguin Books Australia Ltd, 250 Camberwel Road, Camberwel, Victoria 3124,
 Australia
 Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2
 Penguin Books India (P) Ltd, 11 Community Centre, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi - 110
 017, India
 Penguin Group (NZ), Cnr Airborne and Rosedale Roads, Albany, Auckland 1310, New
 Zealand
 Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 24 Sturdee Avenue, Rosebank 2196, South Africa
 Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Ofices: 80 Strand, London WC2R ORL, England
 www.penguin.com
 First published in Pelican Books 1962
 Reprinted with revisions 1965, 1968
 Fourth edition published in Penguin Books 1995
 Complete edition published by Alen Lane The Penguin Press 1997
 Published in Penguin Books 1998
 Revised edition 2004
 11
 Copyright © G. Vennes, 1962, 1965, 1968, 1975, 1987. 1995, 1997, 2004
 Al rights reserved
 The extracts on pp. 95 and 247 are reproduced by kind permission 
of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem; the extracts on pp. 345, 401, 415,
 459 and 537 are reproduced by kind permission of the Israel 
Antiquities Authority; p. 581: a cut segment from The Copper Scro l 
from The Dead Sea Scrols: A Reappraisal by John Alegro (Penguin
 Maps drawn by Nigel Andrews
 The moral right of the author has been asserted
eISBN : 978-1-101-16059-6
 www.greenpenguin.co.uk
 Penguin Books is commi ted to a sustainable future for our business, our
 readers and our planet.
 The book in your hands is made from paper certified by the Forest Stewardship
 Council.
 htp:/us.penguingroup.com
For M and I with love and in loving memory of P
Preface
 In the spring of 1947 a young Arab shepherd climbed into a cave in the
 Judaean desert and stumbled on the first Dead Sea Scrols. For those
 of us who lived through the Qumran story from the beginning, the
 realization that a l this happened half a century ago brings with it a
 melancholy feeling. The Scrols are no longer a recent discovery as we
 used to refer to them, but over the years they have grown in
 significance and now the golden jubilee of the first manuscript find cals
 for celebration with joy and satisfaction. Folowing the ‘revolution’
 which ‘liberated’ a l the manuscripts in 1991 - until that moment a large
 portion of them was kept away from the public gaze - every interested
 person gained free access to the entire Qumran library. I eagerly
 seized the chance and set out to explore the whole colection. Today,
 after four and a half years of intense study, I feel confident that I can
 present the complete canvas of the Dead Sea Scrols and disclose to
 the many interested readers the message of these ancient
 manuscripts about ancient Judaism and to a more limited extent about
 early Christianity.
 In its successive editions this book has endeavoured to serve a dual
 audience of scholars and educated lay people. Over the years it has
 grown in size - it contained only 255 pages in 1962 - and I trust also in
 its grasp of the subject. While this translation of the non-biblical Scro ls
 does not claim to cover every fragment retrieved from the caves, it is
 complete in one sense: it offers in a readable form al the texts
 sufficiently we l preserved to be understandable in English. In plain
 words, meaningless scraps or badly damaged manuscript sections
 are not inflicted on the reader. Those who wish to survey texts
 consisting only of broken lines, or of single letters and half-letters,
 should turn to the official series Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, in
 which every surviving detail is put on record.
 In addition to the English rendering of the Hebrew and Aramaic texts
 found in the eleven Qumran caves, two inscribed potsherds (ostraca)
retrieved from the Qumran site and two Qumran-type documents
 discovered in the fortress of Masada, and brief introductory notes to
 each text, this volume also provides an up-to-date general introduction,
 outlining the history of fifty years of Scro l research and sketching the
 organization, history and religious message of the Qumran
 Community. A Scrol catalogue, an essential bibliography and an index
 of Qumran texts are appended to facilitate further study and research.
Map 1: The area surrounding the Dead Sea, showing Qumran

Map 2: The Caves of Qumran
 Has the greatly increased source material substantialy altered our
 perception of the writings found at Qumran? I do not think so. Nuances
 and emphases have changed, but additional information has mainly
 helped to fi l in gaps and clarify obscurities; it has not undermined our
 earlier conceptions regarding the Community and its ideas. We had
 the exceptionaly good fortune that al but one of the major non-biblical
 Scrols were published at the start, between 1950 and 1956: the
 Habakkuk Commentary (1950), the Community Rule (1951), the War
 Scrol and the Thanksgiving Hymns (1954/5) and the best-preserved
 columns of the Genesis Apocryphon (1956). Even the Temple Scrol,
 which had remained concealed until 1967 in a Bata shoebox by an
 antique dealer, was edited ten years later. The large Scrols have
 served as foundation and pilars, and the thousands of fragments as
 building stones, with which the unique shrine of Jewish religion and
 culture that is Qumran is progressively restored to its ancient
 splendour.
 Fina ly, it is a most pleasant duty to express my warmest thanks to
 friends and coleagues who helped to make this book less imperfect
 than it might otherwise have been. First and foremost, I wish publicly to
 convey my gratitude to Professor Emanuel Tov, editor-in-chief of the
 Dead Sea Scrols Publication Project, for his generosity in answering
 queries and assisting in every possible way. My very special thanks
 are due also to Professor Joseph M. Baumgarten, who alowed me to
 consult his edition of the Damascus Document fragments from Cave 4
 prior to their publication in DJD, and to my former pupil, Dr Jonathan
 G. Campbel, who did not shirk the onerous task of reading through
 and commenting on the rather bulky printout of this volume.
 G.V
Preface to the Penguin Classics edition
 Since the end of 1996, when the text of The Complete Dead Sea
 Scro ls in English was sent to the printers, eighteen further tomes of
 manuscript material have appeared in the series Discoveries in the
 Judaean Desert (DJD).Today, in January 2003, only three more
 volumes, two biblical and one non-biblical, sti l await publication before
 the 39-volume venture, begun in 1955 with DJD I, reaches its fulfilment.
 When reviewing The Complete Dead Sea Scrols in 1997, John J.
 Colins wittily predicted: ‘It is not inconceivable that a more complete
 edition may appear a few years hence.’ Yet even today’s revised and
 updated version remains in some way incomplete. It is without the
 scriptural texts found in the caves, which I never intended to include.
 Luckily these are now available in The Dead Sea Scro ls Bible issued
 by Martin Abegg, Peter Flint and Eugene Ulrich (Harper San
 Francisco, 1999). Neither have I attempted at any stage to present the
 English translation of every scrap devoid of significance (smal,
 unconnected manuscript remains, broken sentences, single words,
 half-words or letters). However, I can state even more confidently than I
 did seven years ago that the reader wil find in this volume al that is
 meaningful and interesting in the non-biblical Dead Sea Scrols.
 The introductory chapters and the bibliographies have also been
 brought up to date so that account is taken in them of al fresh material
 as wel as of the continuous advance of Qumran research.
 The publishers have decided to provide this book with a new niche:
 forty-one years after its first appearance in 1962 in the Pelican series,
 it wi l have its home from now on next to the great works of world
 literature in the Penguin Classics library.
 I feel deeply honoured.
 Oxford, January 2003
 G.V
Chronology


I. Introduction
 On the western shore of the Dead Sea, about eight miles south of
 Jericho, lies a complex of ruins known as Khirbet Qumran. It occupies
 one of the lowest parts of the earth, on the fringe of the hot and arid
 wastes of the Wilderness of Judaea, and is today, apart from
 occasional invasions by coachloads of tourists, lifeless, silent and
 empty. But from that place, members of an ancient Jewish religious
 community, whose centre it was, hurried out one day and in secrecy
 climbed the nearby cliffs in order to hide away in eleven caves their
 precious scrols. No one came back to retrieve them, and there they
 remained undisturbed for almost 2,000 years.
 The account of the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrols, as the
 manuscripts are inaccurately designated, and of the half a century of
 intense research that folowed, is in itself a fascinating as wel as an
 exasperating story. It has been told many a time, but this fiftieth
 anniversary of the first Scrol find excuses, and even demands, yet
 another rehearsal.1
 A BIRD’S-EYE VIEW OF FIFTY YEARS OF DEAD
 SEA SCROLLS RESEARCH
 1. 1947-1967
 News of an extraordinary discovery of seven ancient Hebrew and
 Aramaic manuscripts began to spread in 1948 from Israeli and
 American sources.2
 The original chance find by a young Bedouin
 shepherd, Muhammad edh-Dhib, occurred during the last months of
 the British mandate in Palestine in the spring or summer of 1947,
 unless it was slightly earlier, in the winter of 1946.3
 In 1949, the cave
where the scrols lay hidden was identified, thanks to the efforts of a
 bored Belgian army officer of the United Nations Armistice Observer
 Corps, Captain Philippe Lippens, assisted by a unit of Jordan’s Arab
 Legion, commanded by Major-General Lash. It was investigated by G.
 Lankester Harding, the English Director of the Department of
 Antiquities of Jordan, and the French Dominican archaeologist and
 biblical scholar, Father Roland de Vaux. They retrieved hundreds of
 leather fragments, some large but most of them minute, in addition to
 the seven scrols found in the same cave.
 Three of the rols, an incomplete Isaiah manuscript, a scrol of Hymns
 and one describing the War of the Sons of Light against the Sons of
 Darkness, were purchased in 1947 by the Hebrew University’s
 Professor of Jewish Archaeology, E. L. Sukenik, who proceeded at ful
 speed towards their publication. The other four were entrusted for
 study and eventual publication by their owner, the Arab metropolitan
 archbishop Mar Athanasius, head of the Syrian Orthodox monastery of
 St Mark in Jerusalem, to the resident staff of the American School for
 Oriental Research in Jerusalem, Mi lar Burrows, W H. Brownlee and J.
 C. Trever. These three took charge of a complete Isaiah manuscript,
 the Commentary on Habakkuk and the Manual of Discipline, later
 renamed the Community Rule. Finaly, after the splitting of British
 mandatary Palestine into Israel and Jordan, at the École Biblique et
 Archéologique Française in Jordanian Jerusalem two young
 researchers, the Frenchman Dominique Barthélemy and the Pole
 Józef Tadeusz Milik, were commissioned by de Vaux and Harding in
 late 1951 to edit the fragments colected in Cave I.
 Between 1951 and 1956, ten further caves were discovered, most
 of them by Bedouin in the first instance. Two yielded substantial
 quantities of material. Thousands and thousands of fragments were
 found in Cave 4 and several scrols, including the longest, the Temple
 Scrol, were retrieved from Cave I. The previously neglected ruins of a
 settlement in the proximity of the caves were also excavated by
 Harding and de Vaux, and the view soon prevailed that the texts, the
 caves and the Qumran site were interconnected, and that consequently
 the study of the script and contents of the manuscripts should be
 accompanied by archaeological research.
Progress was surprisingly quick despite the fact that in those
 halcyon days, apart from the smal Nash papyrus, containing the Ten
 Commandments, found in Egypt and now in the Cambridge University
 Library, no Hebrew documents dating to Late Antiquity were extant to
 provide terms of comparison. In 1948 and 1949, Sukenik published in
 Hebrew two preliminary surveys entitled Hidden Scro ls from the
 JudaeanDesert, and concluded that the religious community involved
 was the ascetic sect of the Essenes, wel known from the first-century
 CE writings of Philo, Josephus and Pliny the Elder, a thesis worked
 out in great detail from 1951 onwards by André Dupont-Sommer in
 Paris.4
 The first Qumran scrols to reach the public, and the
 archaeological setting in which they were discovered, echoed three
 striking Essene characteristics. The Community Rule, a basic code of
 sectarian existence, reflects Essene common ownership and celibate
 life, while the geographical location of Qumran talies with Pliny’s
 Essene settlement on the north-western shore of the Dead Sea, south
 of Jericho. The principal novelty provided by the manuscripts consists
 of cryptic a lusions to the historical origins of the Community, launched
 by a priest caled the Teacher of Righteousness, who was persecuted
 by a Jewish ruler, designated as the Wicked Priest. The Teacher and
 his folowers were compeled to withdraw into the desert, where they
 awaited the impending manifestation of God’s triumph over evil and
 darkness in the end of days, which had already begun.
 An almost unanimous agreement soon emerged, dating the
 discovery, on the basis of palaeography and archaeology, to the last
 centuries of the Second Temple, i.e. second century BCE to first
 century CE. For a short while there was controversy between de Vaux,
 who decreed that the pottery and al the finds belonged to the
 Helenistic era (i.e. pre-63 BCE), and Dupont-Sommer, who argued for
 an early Roman (post-63) date. But the finding of further caves and the
 excavation of the ruins of Qumran brought about, on 4 April 1952, de
 Vaux’s dramatic retraction before the French Académie des
 Inscriptions et Beles-Lettres. His revised archaeological synthesis,
 presented in the 1959 Schweich Lectures of the British Academy,
 while admittedly incomplete, is sti l the best comprehensive statement
 5
 available today.
A third point of early consensus concerns the chronology of the
 events aluded to in the Qumran writings, especialy the biblical
 commentaries published in the 1950S and the Damascus Document.
 The so-caled Maccabaean theory, placing the conflict between the
 Teacher of Righteousness and the politico-religious Jewish leadership
 of the day in the time of the Maccabaean high priest or high priests
 Jonathan and/or Simon, was first formulated in my 1952 doctoral
 dissertation, published in 1953,6
 7
 and was soon to be adopted with
 variations in detail by such leading specialists as J. T. Milik, F. M.
 Cross and R. de Vaux.
 As long as the editorial task consisted only of publishing the seven
 scro ls from Cave I, work was advancing remarkably fast. Milar
 Burrows and his coleagues published their three manuscripts in 1950
 and 1951.8
 1954-5.9
 Sukenik’s three texts appeared in a posthumous volume in
 In the interest of speed, these editors generously abstained
 from translating and interpreting the texts, and were content with
 releasing the photographs and their transcription. The best-preserved
 sections of the Aramaic Genesis Apocryphon folowed closely in
 1956.
 10 Even the fragments from Cave I, handled with alacrity and
 loving care by D. Barthélemy and J. T Milik, appeared in 1955.
 11 The
 secrecy rule of later years, restricting access to unpublished texts to a
 smal team of editors appointed by de Vaux, had not yet been applied.
 On my first visit to Jerusalem in 1952, I was alowed to examine the
 fragments of the Rule of the Congregation (1QSa), as may be seen
 from the inclusion in the final edition of a reading suggested by me to
 the editors.
 The scrol fragments, partly found by the archaeologists, but mostly
 purchased from the Arabs, who nine times out of ten outwitted their
 professional rivals, were cleaned, sorted out and displayed in the so
caled Scrolery in the Rockefeler Museum, later renamed the
 Palestine Archaeological Museum, to become after 1967 once more
 the Rockefeler Museum. If the mass of material disgorged by Cave 4
 had not upset the original arrangements, the scandalous delays in
 publishing in later years need never have happened.
 To deal with Cave 4, Father de Vaux improvised, in 1953 and 1954,
a team of seven on the whole young and untried scholars. Barthélemy
 opted out, and the bri liant but unpredictable Abbé J. T. Milik, who later
 left the Roman Catholic priesthood, became the pilar of the new
 group. He was joined by the French Abbé Jean Starcky, and two
 Americans, Monsignor Patrick Skehan and Frank Moore Cross. John
 Marco Alegro and John Strugnel were recruited from Britain, and from
 Germany, Claus-Hunno Hunzinger, who soon resigned and was
 replaced later by the French Abbé Maurice Bai let.
 It should have been evident to anyone with a modicum of good
 sense that a group of seven editors, of whom only two, Starcky and
 Skehan, had already established a scholarly reputation, was
 insufficient to perform such an enormous task on any level, let alone to
 produce the kind of ‘last word’ edition de Vaux appears to have
 contemplated. The second serious error committed by de Vaux was
 that he wholy relied on his personal, quasi-patriarchal authority,
 instead of setting up from the start a supervisory body empowered, if
 necessary, to sack those members of the team who might fail to fulfil
 their obligations promptly and to everyone’s satisfaction.
 Yet before depicting the chaos characterizing the publishing
 process in the 1970s and 1980s, in fairness it should be stressed that,
 during the first decade or so, the industry of the group could not
 seriously be faulted. Judging from the completion around 1060 of a
 primitive Concordance, recorded on handwritten index cards, of al the
 words appearing in the fragments found in Caves 2 to 10, it is clear
 that at an early date most of the texts had been identified and
 deciphered. The many criticisms advanced in subsequent years,
 focusing on these scholars’ refusal to put their valuable findings into
 the public domain, should not prevent one from acknowledging that this
 original achievement, in which J. T. Milik had the lion’s share, deserves
 unrestricted admiration.
 After the publication of the Cave I fragments in 1955, the contents of
 the eight minor caves (2-3, 5-10) were released in a single volume in
 1963.
 12 In 1965 J. A. Sanders, an American scholar who was not part
 of the original team, edited the Psalms Scrol, found in Cave I in
 1956.
 13 Finaly, with its typescript completed and dispatched to the
 printers a year before the fatal date of 1967, the first poorly edited
14
 volume of Cave 4 fragments saw the light of day in 1968.
 2. 1967-1990
 With the occupation of East Jerusalem in the Six Day War, al the scrol
 fragments housed in the Palestine Archaeological Museum came
 under the control of the Israel Department of Antiquities. Only the
 Copper Scrol and a few other fragments exhibited in Amman
 remained in Jordanian hands. The Temple Scrol, which until then had
 been held by a dealer in Bethlehem,
 15 was quickly retrieved with the
 help of army inteligence and acquired by the State of Israel. Yigael
 Yadin, deputy prime minister of Israel in the 1970s, mixing politics with
 scholarship, managed to complete a magisterial three-volume
 publication by 1977.
 16
 A gentlemanly gesture on the part of the Israelis, who decided not to
 interfere with de Vaux, left him and his scattered troop in charge of the
 Cave 4 texts.
 17 As for the unpublished manuscripts from Cave I, they
 were handled by Dutch and American academics.
 18
 Father de Vaux, whose anti-Israeli sentiments were no secret,
 quietly withdrew to his tent and remained inactive until his death in
 1971. Another French Dominican, Pierre Benoit, succeeded him as it
 were by natural selection in the editorial chair in 1972. The Israeli
 archaeological establishment, sti l aloof, conferred its blessing on him.
 By then, at my instigation, C. H. Roberts, Secretary to the Delegates,
 i.e. chief executive of Oxford University Press, decided to demand
 speedier publication, but Benoit’s ineffectual ra lying ca l either elicited
 no response from his men, or produced promises which were never
 honoured.
 19 In a lecture delivered in 1977, I coined the phrase which
 was thereafter often repeated that the greatest Hebrew manuscript
 discovery was fast becoming ‘the academic scandal par exce lence of
 the twentieth century’.
 20
 One may ask how and why, after such an apparently propitious
 beginning, a group of scholars, most of whom were gifted, had turned
 the editorial work on the Scrols into such a lamentable story? In my
opinion, the ‘academic scandal of the century’ resulted from a
 concatenation of causes. Lack of organization and unfortunate choice
 of colaborators can be blamed on de Vaux. For the majority of the
 team members who had other jobs to cope with, the overlong part-time
 effort caused their original enthusiasm to fade and vanish. J. T. Milik,
 the most productive of them until the mid-seventies, appears to have
 been disenchanted by the cool reception of his highly speculative
 thesis contained in his edition of The Books ofEnoch:Aramaic
 Fragments of Qumran Cave 4(1976). ‘Academic imperialism’ was
 also a factor. It was easier to hold that ‘These texts belong to us, not to
 you!’ than to admit that the procrastinating editors had undertaken
 more than they could deliver. Add to this the initial unwi lingness of the
 Israelis to shoulder their responsibilities, and, as wi l be shown, their
 lack of foresight and repeated misjudgements before, finaly, in the late
 1980s, they began to take an active part in matters of editorial policy.
 Need I say more?
 The inevitable began to happen: in 1980 Patrick Skehan died,
 fo lowed by Jean Starcky in 1986, both without publishing their
 assignments. Eugene Ulrich and Emile Puech became their heirs,
 while F. M. Cross and J. Strugnel distributed portions of their texts to
 serve as dissertation topics for doctoral students at Harvard University.
 Though responsible for some good, and occasionaly excelent,
 monographs, this unfortunate practice further delayed progress as
 thesis writers like to keep their cards close to their chests until their
 PhDs are in the bag.
 In 1986, a year before his death, Pierre Benoit resigned as editor
in-chief and the depleted international team elected as his successor
 the talented but tardy John Strugnel, who in thirty-three years failed to
 produce a single volume of text. In 1987, at a public session of a
 Scrols Symposium held in London, I urged him to publish at once the
 photographic plates, while he and his acolytes carried on with their
 work at their customary snail pace. This request was met with a one
sylable negative answer. To the surprise of many, the Israel Antiquities
 Authority (or IAA) acquiesced in Strugnel’s appointment. His
 grandiose schemes never bore fruit. In 1990, after a compromising
 interview given by him to an Israeli newspaper, in which he was
reported as having made disparaging remarks not only about Israelis,
 but also about the Jewish religion - he caled it horrible - his felow
 editors persuaded him to tender his resignation. It was accepted by
 the IAA on health grounds. Belatedly even the Israelis saw the light,
 a nd de facto terminated the thirty-seven-year-old and ultimately
 disastrous reign of the international team.
 3. 1990-2003
 After John Strugnel’s withdrawal, the very capable Emanuel Tov,
 Professor of Biblical Studies at the Hebrew University, was appointed
 chief editor, the first Jew and the first Israeli to head the Qumran
 publication project. He began his activities auspiciously by
 redistributing the unpublished texts among freshly recruited
 colaborators. The new editorial team, of which I became a member in
 1991, consists of some sixty scholars compared to the original seven!
 Unfortunately, Tov did not feel free to cancel the ‘secrecy rule’,
 introduced and strictly enforced by de Vaux and his successors,
 prohibiting access to unpublished texts to al but a few chosen editors.
 However, the protective dam erected around the fragments by the
 international team co lapsed in the autumn of 1991 under the growing
 pressure of public opinion, mobilized in particular by Hershel Shanks,
 in the columns of the widely read Biblical Archaeology Review (BAR).
 The first landmark event leading towards ful freedom was the
 publication in early September by BAR’s parent body, the Biblical
 Archaeology Society, of seventeen Cave 4 manuscripts reconstructed
 with the help of a computer by Ben Zion Wacholder and Martin
 Abegg
 21 from the Preliminary Concordance, aluded to earlier, which
 was privately issued in twenty-five copies (in theory only for the use of
 the official editors) by John Strugnel in 1988.
 22 Later in the same
 month out of the blue came the announcement by Wiliam A. Moffett
 that the Huntington Library of San Marino, California, a renowned
 research institution, would bring to an end the forty-year-old closed
 shop by opening its complete photographic archive of the Qumran
Scrols to al qualified scholars.
 23
 The IAA and the official editors attempted to resist but, by the end of
 October, under pressure from the Knesset, Israel’s parliament, they
 were al forced to recognize that the battle was lost and al restrictions
 had to be lifted. Almost at once, the Scrol photograph archives at the
 Oxford Centre for Postgraduate Hebrew Studies and at the Ancient
 Biblical Manuscript Center at Claremont, previously legaly compeled
 to restrict access only to persons approved by Jerusalem, were also
 thrown open to al competent research scholars. Moreover, in
 November 1991 the Biblical Archaeology Society published a two
volume photographic edition of the bulk of the Qumran fragments
 compiled by Robert Eisenman and James Robinson.
 24 How the two
 Californian professors obtained the material remains unclear. This
 new policy has had an essentialy beneficial effect on Qumran studies.
 Since vested interests are no longer protected, the rate of publication
 has noticeably accelerated and from 1992 learned periodicals have
 been flooded with short or not so short papers by scholars claiming
 fresh insights. Free competition has expedited the official edition itself.
 The first Cave 4 volume of biblical texts, announced as imminent by
 Father Benoit in 1983, actualy appeared -pace the 1992 date on the
 cover page—on 4 March 1993.
 25 Scholarship and the general public
 were to become the beneficiaries of the new era of liberty. Only the
 procrastinators and the selfish stood to lose. By 1996, thanks to the
 highly efficient stewardship of the editor-in-chief, Emanuel Tov, four
 further volumes have been published and another four are in the
 pipeline. Compared with the output of the previous regime, this is an
 admirable change indeed. At the time of the revision of this book,
 thirty-six out of the thirty-nine volumes of Discoveries in the
 JudaeanDesert (DJD) have appeared, twenty-eight of them since the
 watershed year of the Scrols ‘revolution’ in 1991.
 THE PRESENT STATE OF DEAD SEA SCROLLS
 STUDIES
Between 1947 and 1956, the eleven Qumran caves yielded a dozen
 scro ls written on leather and one embossed on copper. To these we
 have to add fragments on papyrus or leather, the precise number of
 which is unknown but probably in the order of six figures. About 800
 original documents are fuly or partly represented. The Cave 4 list
 alone contains 575titles,
 26 though it seems that some twenty
 documents (4Q342-61) probably originating from non-Qumran
 Judaean desert locations were mistakenly catalogued as 4Q material.
 Most scrols are written in Hebrew, a smaler portion in Aramaic and
 only a few attest the ancient Greek or Septuagint version of the
 Bible.
 27
 Among the texts previously known, al the books of the Hebrew
 Scriptures are extant at least in fragments save Esther, the absence of
 which may be purely accidental.
 28 Even Daniel, the most recent work
 to enter the Palestinian canon in the mid-second century BCE, is
 attested to by eight manuscripts.
 29 There are also remains of Aramaic
 and Greek scriptural translations.
 Furthermore, the caves have yielded some of the Apocrypha, i.e.
 religious works missing from the Hebrew Scriptures but included in the
 Septuagint, the Bible of Greek-speaking Jews. Caves 4 and 11
 revealed the Book of Tobit in Aramaic and in Hebrew, Psalm cli,
 described in the Greek version as a ‘supernumerary’ psalm, and the
 Wisdom of Jesus ben Sira or Ecclesiasticus in Hebrew. Part of the
 latter, chapters xxxixxliv, has also survived at Masada, and hence
 cannot be later than 73/4 CE, the date when the stronghold was
 captured by the Romans, and two medieval manuscripts, discovered
 in the storeroom (genizah) of a synagogue in Cairo in 1896, have
 preserved about two thirds of the Greek version.
 A third category of religious books, the Pseudepigrapha, though
 very popular in some Jewish circles, failed to attain canonical rank
 either in Palestine or in the Diaspora. Some of them, previously known
 in Greek, Latin or Syriac translations, have turned up in their original
 Hebrew (e.g. the Book of Jubilees) or Aramaic (e.g. the Book of
 Enoch). A good many further compositions pertaining to this class
 have also come to light, such as fictional accounts relating among
 others to Joseph, Amram, Moses, Joshua or Jeremiah, as wel as
apocryphal psalms, five of which have survived also in Syriac
 translation, others being revealed for the first time at Qumran.
 The sectarian Dead Sea Scrols, thought to have been composed or
 revised by the Qumran Community, constitute, with one exception,
 30 a
 complete novelty. This literature comprises rule books, Bible
 interpretation of various kinds, religious poetry, Wisdom compositions
 in prose and in verse, sectarian calendars and liturgical texts, one of
 them purporting to echo the angelic worship in the heavenly temple. To
 these are to be added several ‘horoscopes’ or, more precisely,
 documents of astrological physiognomy, a literary genre based on the
 belief that the temper, physical features and fate of an individual
 depend on the configuration of the heavens at the time of the person’s
 birth, and a text (brontologion) predicting prodigies if thunder is heard
 on certain days, with the moon passing through given signs of the
 Zodiac. Finaly, the Copper Scrol aludes in cryptic language to sixty
four caches of precious metals and scrols, including another copy of
 this same inventory written without riddles.
 After a first few gaffes committed before the excavation of the site,
 the palaeographical, archaeological and literary-historical study of the
 evidence produced a general consensus among scholars concerning
 (a) the age, (b) the provenance and (c) the significance of the
 discoveries. Holders of fringe opinions have recently tended to explain
 this consensus as tyrannicaly imposed from above by Roland de Vaux
 and his henchmen. The truth, however, is that the opinio communis
 has resulted from a natural evolutionary process - from arguments
 which others found persuasive even when advanced by single
 individuals often unconnected with the international team - and not from
 an almighty establishment forcing an official view down the throats of
 weaklings.
 (a) The Dating of the Manuscripts
 Palaeography was the first method employed to establish the age of
 the texts. Despite the paucity of comparative material, experts
independently arrived at dates ranging between the second century
 BCE and the first century CE. By the 1960s, in addition to the Qumran
 texts, they could make use also of manuscripts from Masada (first
 century CE), as wel as from the Murabba‘at and other Judaean desert
 caves yielding first- and second-century CE Jewish writings. A rather
 too rigid, but useful, comprehensive system was quickly devised by F.
 M. Cross.
 31 While admittedly controversial if unsupported either by
 actual dates in the manuscripts themselves (a phenomenon, alas,
 unknown at Qumran) or by external criteria, these palaeographical
 conclusions were to receive a twofold boost from archaeology and
 radiocarbon dating. The archaeological thesis, based inter alia on the
 study of pottery and coins, was formulated by R. de Vaux (cf. note 5 on
 p. 4). He assigned the occupation of Qumran to the period between
 the second half of the second century BCE and the first war between
 Jews and Romans (66-70 CE).
 Radiocarbon tests were first applied to the cloth wrapping of one of
 the scrols as early as 1951. The date suggested was 33 CE, but one
 had to reckon with a 10 per cent margin of error each way.
 32 However,
 with the improved techniques of the 1990s, eight Qumran manuscripts
 were subjected to Accelerator Mass Spectrometry or AM S. Six of
 them were found to be definitely pre-Christian, and only two straddled
 over the first century BCE/first century CE dividing line.
 33 Most
 importantly, with a single exception - the Testament of Qahat being
 shown to be about 300 years earlier than expected - the radiocarbon
 dates confirm in substance those proposed by the palaeographers.
 Unfortunately, the manuscripts tested in 1990 did not include
 historica ly sensitive texts. But in 1994 the IAA invited the Arizona AMS
 Laboratory at the University of Arizona, Tucson to analyse eighteen
 texts and two linen fragments. Thirteen of the manuscripts came
 definitely from Qumran and one of these had already been carbon
dated in Zurich. Three texts were ‘date-bearing’. The general
 conclusion is as folows: ‘Measurements on samples of known ages
 are in good agreement with those known ages. Ages determined from
 14C measurements on the remainder of the Dead Sea Scrol samples
 are in reasonable agreement with paleographic estimates of such
ages, in the case where those estimates are available.’
 34 On the
 whole, the results of this second radiocarbon analysis are somewhat
 disappointing in that, while the dates arrived at accommodate the
 palaeographic proposals, the margin of error is considerably greater
 than that appearing in the 1990 Zurich tests. Nevertheless, Arizona has
 scored on one highly significant point: the Habakkuk Commentary,
 chief source of the history of the Qumran sect, is definitely put in the
 pre-Christian era between 120 and 5 BCE. In consequence, fringe
 scholars who see in this writing alusions to events described in the
 New Testament wil find they have a problem on their hands. In sum,
 the general scholarly view today places the Qumran Scrols roughly
 between 200 BCE and 70 CE, with a smal portion of the texts
 possibly stretching back to the third century BCE, and the bulk of the
 extant material dating to the first century BCE, i.e. late Hasmonaean or
 early Herodian in the jargon of the palaeographers.
 (b) The Provenance of the Manuscripts
 With negligible exceptions, scholarly opinion recognized already in the
 1950s that the Scrols found in the caves and the nearby ruined
 settlement were related. To take the obvious example, Cave 4 with its
 575 (or perhaps 555) documents lies literaly within a stone’s throw
 from the buildings. At the same time, the Essene identity of the ancient
 inhabitants of Qumran gained general acceptance. Today the Essene
 theory is questioned by some, but usualy for unsound reasons. They
 adopt a simplistic attitude in comparing the two sets of evidence,
 namely the classical sources (Philo, Josephus and Pliny the Elder) and
 Qumran, and any disagreement or contradiction between them is
 hailed as final proof against the Essene thesis. Yet, if its intricacies are
 handled with sophistication, it is sti l the best hypothesis today.
 35
 Indeed, it accounts best for such striking peculiarities as common
 ownership of property and the lack of reference to women in the
 Community Rule, the probable coexistence of celibate and married
 sectaries (in accordance with Flavius Josephus’ account of two kinds
of Essenes), and the remarkable coincidence between the
 geographical setting of Qumran and Pliny the Elder’s description of an
 Essene establishment near the Dead Sea between Jericho and
 Engedi. I admit of course that the Scrols and the archaeological data
 surrounding them do not always fuly agree with the Greek and Latin
 notices, and that both the Qumran and the classical accounts need to
 be interpreted and adjusted, bearing in mind that the Scrols represent
 the views of initiates against those of more or less complete
 outsiders.
 36 But since none of the competing theories associating the
 Qumran group with Pharisees, Sadducees, Zealots, or Jewish
Christians can withstand critical scrutiny, I remain unrepentant in
 upholding my statement formulated in 1977 as stil valid today: ‘The
 final verdict must ... be that of the proposed solutions the Essene
 theory is relatively the soundest. It is even safe to say that it possesses
 a high degree of intrinsic probability.’
 37
 (c) The Significance of the Qumran Scrolls
 The uniqueness of the Qumran discovery was due to the fact that with
 the possible exception of the Nash papyrus referred to earlier (p. 3), no
 Jewish text in Hebrew or Aramaic written on perishable material could
 previously be traced to the pre-Christian period. Before 1947, the
 oldest Hebrew text of the whole of Isaiah was the Ben Asher codex
 from Cairo dated to 895 CE, as against the complete Isaiah Scrol
 from Cave I, which is about a milennium older. The Apocrypha and
 Pseudepigrapha, save the Hebrew Ben Sira and the Aramaic
 fragments of the Testament of Levi from the Cairo Genizah, had
 survived only in translation. The sectarian writings found in the caves,
 apart from the already mentioned Damascus Document (p. I), count as
 a total novelty.
 To begin with, the Qumran Scrols and the other Judaean Desert
 finds have created a new discipline: ancient, i.e. pre-medieval,
 Hebrew codicology. We now possess concrete evidence that scribes
 carefuly prepared the leather or papyrus on which they were to write,
often ruling them, with vegetable ink, kept in ink-wels. Paragraphs and
 larger unit openings were indicated by symbols in the margins. Longer
 compositions were written on scrols, on one side of the sheets only,
 some of them numbered, which were subsequently sewn together.
 Papyrus documents were often reused, with a different text inscribed
 on the verso. Short works such as letters were recorded on smal
 pieces of writing material: leather, papyrus, wood or potsherd. By
 contrast, no book or codex, with pages covered with script on both
 sides and bound together, has come to light at Qumran, or in any other
 Judaean Desert site.
 The Qumran finds have also substantialy altered our views
 concerning the text and canon of the Bible. The many medieval
 Hebrew scriptural manuscripts, representing the traditional or
 Masoretic text, are remarkable for their almost general uniformity.
 Compared to the often meaningful divergences between the traditional
 Hebrew text and its ancient Greek, Latin or Syriac translations, the few
 variant readings of the Masoretic Bible manuscripts, ignoring obvious
 scribal errors, mainly concern speling. By contrast, the Qumran
 scriptural scro ls, and especialy the fragments, are characterized by
 extreme fluidity: they often differ not just from the customary wording
 but also, when the same book is attested by several manuscripts,
 among themselves. In fact, some of the fragments echo what later
 became the Masoretic text; others resemble the Hebrew underlying the
 Greek Septuagint; yet others recal the Samaritan Torah or
 Pentateuch, the only part of the Bible which the Jews of Samaria
 accepted as Scripture. Some Qumran fragments represent a mixture
 of these, or something altogether different. It should be noted, however,
 that none of these variations affects the scriptural message itself. In
 short, while largely echoing the contents of biblical books, Qumran has
 opened an entirely new era in the textual history of the Hebrew
 Scriptures.
 38
 The Community’s attitude to the biblical canon, i.e. the list of books
 considered as Holy Writ, is less easy to define, as no such list of titles
 has survived. Canonical status may be presumed indirectly either from
 authoritative quotations or from theological commentary. As regards
 the latter, the caves have yielded various interpretative works on the
Pentateuch (the Temple Scrol, reworked Pentateuch manuscripts, the
 Genesis Apocryphon and other commentaries on Genesis) and the
 Prophets (e.g. Isaiah, Habakkuk, Nahum, etc.), but only on the Psalms
 among the Writings, the third traditional division of the Jewish Bible.
 From the texts available in 1988, I colected over fifty examples of
 Bible citations which were used as proof in doctrinal expositions, thus
 indicating that they were thought to possess special religious or
 doctrinal importance.
 39
 On the other hand, the Psalms Scrol from Cave 11 contains seven
 apocryphal poems, including chapter L1 of the Wisdom of Jesus ben
 Sira, not annexed to, but interspersed among, the canonical hymns.
 This may be explained as a liturgical phenomenon, a colection of
 songs chanted during worship; but it may, and in my view probably
 does, mean that at Qumran the concept ‘Bible’ was stil hazy, and the
 ‘canon’ open-ended, which would account for the remarkable freedom
 in the treatment of the text of Scripture by a community whose life was
 nevertheless wholy centred on the Bible.
 There are two Apocrypha attested at Qumran. In connection with
 Tobit one can note that four out of the five Cave 4 manuscripts are in
 Aramaic and only one in Hebrew, but they al reflect the longer version
 of the Greek Tobit. So the long-debated original language of this book
 is sti l uncertain, but Aramaic has become the likeliest candidate. On
 the other hand, the Hebrew poem from Ben Sira L1 has a patently
 better chance of reflecting the original than either the Greek translation
 by the author’s grandson, preserved in the Septuagint, or the Hebrew
 of the medieval Cairo Genizah manuscripts, because the Qumran
 version alone faithfuly reflects the acrostic character of the
 composition with the lines starting with the successive letters of the
 Hebrew alphabet, aleph, bet, gimel, etc.
 Qumran has also added to the Pseudepigrapha several new works
 dealing with biblical figures such as Joseph, Qahat, Amram, Moses,
 Joshua, Samuel. Among the works in this category which were
 previously known, the Aramaic fragments of Enoch deserve special
 mention because they appear to attest only four out of the five books of
 the Ethiopic Enoch.
 40 Book 2 (i.e. chapters XXXVI-LXXI), which
 describes the heavenly apocalyptic figure caled son of man, a subject
on which New Testament scholars have wasted a considerable
 amount of ink without approaching even the vaguest consensus, is
 missing at Qumran. Thus the Aramaic Enoch does not support their
 speculations any more than do the Greek manuscripts, which are also
 without chapters XXXVI-LXXI of the Ethiopic Enoch.
 41
 The contribution of the Scrols to general Jewish history is negligible,
 and even to the history of the Community is fairly limited. The chief
 reason for this is that none of the non-biblical compositions found at
 Qumran belongs to the historical genre. The sectarian persons and
 events mentioned in the manuscripts are depicted in cryptic language
 as fulfilment of ancient prophecies relating to the last age. The chief
 sources of sectarian history, the Damascus Document and the Bible
 commentaries or pesharim, identify the Community’s principal
 enemies as the kings of Yavan (Greece) and the rulers of the Kittim
 (Romans). Also, the Nahum Commentary’s historical perspective
 extends from Antiochus (no doubt Epiphanes, c. 170 BCE) to the
 conquest by the Kittim (probably 63 BCE). Names familiar from
 Jewish or Graeco-Roman history appear here and there. The Nahum
 Commentary aludes to Antiochus, and to another Syrian Greek king,
 Demetrius (most likely Demetrius I at the beginning of the first century
 BCE). Very fragmentary historical calendars from Cave 4 contain the
 phrase ‘Aemilius kiled’, meaning no doubt Aemilius Scaurus,
 governor of Syria at the time of Pompey’s conquest of Jerusalem in
 63. They mention also Jewish rulers of the Maccabaean—
 Hasmonaean era (second-first centuries BCE), Shelamzion or
 Salome-Alexandra, widow and successor of Alexander Jannaeus (76
67 BCE); Hyrcanus and John (Yohanan), either John Hyrcanus I
 (135/4-104 BCE) or more likely I (63-40 BCE),
 42 and King Jonathan,
 Alexander Jannaeus or, in my opinion, more likely Jonathan
 Maccabaeus (161-143/2 BCE).
 43 In one respect, despite the absence
 of detail, the evidence is teling: al these characters belong to the
 second or the first half of the first century BCE. So also do most of the
 coins discovered at Qumran.
 The mainstream hypothesis, built on archaeology and literary
 analysis, sketches the history of the Scrols Community (or Essene
 sect) as folows.
 44 Its prehistory starts in Palestine - some claim also
Babylonian antecedents - with the rise of the Hasidic movement, at the
 beginning of the second century BCE as described in the first book of
 the Maccabees (I Mac. ii, 42-44; vii, 13-17). Sectarian (Essene)
 history itself originated in a clash between the Wicked Priest or Priests
 (Jonathan and/or possibly Simon Maccabaeus) and the Teacher of
 Righteousness, the anonymous priest who was the spiritual leader of
 the Community. The sect consisted of the survivors of the Hasidim,
 linked with a group of dissident priests who, by the mid-second
 century, came under the leadership of the sons of Zadok, associates
 of the Zadokite high priests. This history continues at Qumran, and no
 doubt in many other Palestinian localities, until the years of the first
 Jewish rebelion against Rome, when possibly in 68 CE the settlement
 is believed to have been occupied by Vespasian’s soldiers. Whether
 the legionaries encountered sectarian resistance - such a theory would
 be consonant with Josephus’ reference to an Essene general among
 the revolutionaries
 45 and to a massacre of the Essenes by the
 Romans
 46 - or whether the threatening presence of the contingents of
 Zealot Sicarii, who had already expeled the Essenes from Qumran,
 provoked a Roman intervention, are purely speculative matters. One
 fact is certain, however. No one of the original occupants of Qumran
 returned to the caves to reclaim their valuable manuscripts.
 A variation on this theme, caled the Groningen hypothesis,
 postulates a whole series of six Wicked Priests, and identifies the
 Community not with the main Essene sect but with one of its splinter
 groups.
 47 The Zealot theory, elaborated in the 1950s in Oxford by Sir
 Godfrey Driver and Cecil Roth,
 48 is hard to reconcile with the totality of
 the available evidence, as most of the Qumran documents predate the
 Zealot period.
 More recently Norman Golb of Chicago has launched a forceful
 attack on the common opinion. His objections, reiterated in a series of
 papers,
 49 culminated in 1995 in a hefty tome.
 50 The target of his
 criticism is the provenance of the scrols found at Qumran. According
 to him, the manuscripts originated in a Jerusalem library (or libraries),
 the contents of which were concealed in desert caves when the capital
 was besieged between 67 and 70 CE. The chief corolary of the
hypothesis is that the Essenes had nothing to do either with the
 Qumran settlement - a fortress in Golb’s opinion
 51 - or with the
 manuscripts.
 The early assumption of Scrol scholars that every non-biblical Dead
 Sea text was an Essene writing
 52 might have justified to some extent
 Norman Golb’s scepticism. But nowadays specialists distinguish
 between Qumran manuscripts written by members of the Essene sect,
 and others either predating the Community, or simply brought there
 from outside. Emanuel Tov, for instance, has drawn a dividing line on
 scribal grounds between scrols produced at Qumran and the rest.
 53
 However, in my view the soft underbely of the Jerusalem hypothesis is
 revealed - apart from the patent weakness of the archaeological
 interpretation, for Qumran is not a fortress - by the composition of the
 manuscript colection itself, definitely pointing towards a sectarian
 library. If Cave 4 is taken as representative, whereas several biblical
 books (Kings, Lamentations, Ezra and Chronicles) are attested only in
 single copies; and others, as important as Numbers, Joshua, Judges,
 Proverbs, Ruth and Ecclesiastes, in two copies, we find ten copies of
 the Community Rule and nine of the Damascus Document. Over a
 dozen manuscripts contain sectarian calendars, yet not one
 mainstream calendar figures among the 575 (or 555) compositions
 found in that cave! So, if the texts discovered at Qumran came from
 the capital, can their source have been an Essene library in
 Jerusalem?
 54
 QUMRAN AND THE NEW TESTAMENT
 Since Qumran and early Christianity partly overlap, it is not surprising
 that from the very beginning of Dead Sea Scrols research some
 scholars endeavoured to identify the two. The first attempt came from
 England in the early 1950s, with Jacob Teicher of Cambridge
 modestly advancing the thesis that Jesus was the Teacher of
 Righteousness and Saint Paul the Wicked Priest.
 55 This trend was
 continued with loud media support by J. M. Alegro’s speculation about
the role of ammanita muscaria, a halucinogenic fungus, in the
 genesis of the Christian Church.
 56 It reached its climax with Barbara
 Thiering’s discovery that John the Baptist was the Teacher of
 Righteousness and the married, divorced and remarried Jesus, father
 of four children, the Wicked Priest.
 57 As for Robert Eisenman, he
 ignores Jesus, and casts instead his brother, James, in the role of the
 Teacher of Righteousness, with Paul playing the Wicked Priest.
 58 In
 my opinion al these theories fail the basic credibility test: they do not
 spring from, but are foisted on, the texts.
 59
 These - to say the least - improbable speculations as wel as the no
 less fantastic claim that Qumran Cave 7 yielded remains of the Gospel
 of Mark and other New Testament writings in Greek
 60 need not detain
 us any longer.
 Turning to the real relationship between the Scrols and the New
 Testament, this can be presented under a threefold heading. (1) We
 note (a) fundamental similarities of language (both in the Scrols and in
 the New Testament the faithful are caled ‘sons of light’); (b) ideology
 (both communities considered themselves as the true Israel, governed
 by twelve leaders, and expected the imminent arrival of the Kingdom of
 God); (c) attitude to the Bible (both considered their own history as a
 fulfilment of the words of the Prophets). However, al correspondences
 such as these may be due to the Palestinian religious atmosphere of
 the epoch, without entailing any direct influence.
 (2) More specific features, such as monarchic administration (i.e.
 single leaders, overseers at Qumran, bishops in Christian
 communities) and the practice of religious communism in the strict
 discipline of the sect and at least in the early days in the Jerusalem
 church (cf. Acts ii, 44-5), would suggest a direct causal connection. If
 so, it is likely that the young and inexperienced church modeled itself
 on the by then wel-tried Essene society.
 (3) In the study of the historical Jesus, the charismatic
eschatological aspects of the Scrols have provided the richest
 gleanings for comparison. For example, the Prayer of Nabonidus,
 known since the mid-1950s,
 61 and concerned with the story of
 Nabonidus’ cure by a Jewish exorcist who forgave his sins, provides
the most teling paralel to the Gospel account of the healing of a
 paralytic in Capernaum whose sins Jesus declared forgiven.
 62
 The second example is the so-caled Resurrection fragment
 (4Q521, cf. below, pp. 412-3).
 63 In this poem, the age of the
 eschatological kingdom is characterized, with the help of Psalm cxlvi,
 7-8 and Isaiah lxi, 1, by the liberation of captives, the curing of the
 blind, the straightening of the bent, the healing of the wounded, the
 raising of the dead and the proclamation of the good news to the poor.
 Likewise, in the Gospels, victory over disease and the devil is viewed
 as the sure sign of the initial manifestation of God’s reign. Jesus is
 reported to have announced:
 If it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, the Kingdom of God
 has come upon you.
 (Lk. xi, 20)
 Similarly, to John the Baptist’s inquiry whether Jesus was the final
 messenger the folowing reply is sent:
 Go and tel John what you hear and see: the blind receive their sight, and
 the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are
 raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them.
 (Math. xi, 4-5)
 Note furthermore that Community Rule 4:6 lists healing as the chief
 eschatological reward and that according to the Palestinian Aramaic
 paraphrases of Genesis iii, 15 the days of the Messiah wil bring an
 ultimate cure to the children of Eve wounded by the serpent in the
 garden of Eden.
 64
 QUMRAN’S GREATEST NOVELTY
 If one had to single out the most revolutionary novelty furnished by
 Qumran, its contribution to our understanding of the genesis of Jewish
literary compositions could justifiably be our primary choice.
 Comparative study of biblical manuscripts, where no two copies
 display the same text, and of sectarian works, attested in a number of
 sometimes startlingly different redactions, has revealed in one leading
 scholar’s words ‘insufficiently contro led copying’.
 65 In my view,
 however, the phenomenon would better be described as scribal
 creative freedom. Qumran manuscripts of Scripture, and even more of
 the Community Rule and the War Scrol, indicate that diversity, not
 uniformity, reigned there and then, and that redactor-copyists felt free
 to improve the composition which they were reproducing. Or, to quote
 myself,
 The Dead Sea Scrols have afforded for the first time direct insight into
 the creative literary-religious process at work within that variegated
 Judaism which flourished during the last two centuries of quasi
national independence, before the catastrophe of 70 CE forced the
 rabbinic successors of the Pharisees to attempt to create an
 ‘orthodoxy’ by reducing dangerous multiplicity to a simple, tidy and
 easily contro lable unity.
 66
 Looking at the Qumran discoveries from an overal perspective, it is - I
 believe - the student of the history of Palestinian Judaism in the inter
Testamental era (150 BCE-70 CE) who is their principal beneficiary.
 For such an expert, the formerly quite unknown sectarian writings of the
 Dead Sea literature have opened new avenues of exploration in the
 shadowy era of the life of Jesus, the rise of Christianity and the
 emergence of rabbinic Judaism. From the Jewish side, it was
 previously poorly documented. The rabbis of the first and second
 centuries CE had not permitted religious writings of that epoch to go
 down to posterity unless they conformed fuly to their ideas, and
 although some of these texts were preserved by Christians (viz. the
 Apocrypha and many of the Pseudepigrapha), the fact that they had
 served as a vehicle for Church apologetics caused their textual
 reliability to be suspect. But the Scrols are unaffected by either
 Christian or rabbinic censorship, and now that their evidence is
complete, historians wi l be thoroughly acquainted, not with just another
 aspect of Jewish beliefs or customs, but with the whole organization,
 teaching and aspirations of a religious community flourishing during
 the last centuries of the Second Temple.
 The Scrols have understandably awakened intense interest in the
 academic world, but why have they appealed so strongly to the
 imagination of the non-specialist? I would say, the outstanding
 characteristic of our age appears to be a desire to reach back to the
 greatest attainable purity, to the basic truth free of jargon. Affecting the
 whole of our outlook, it has necessarily included the domain of
 religious thought and behaviour, and with it, in the Western world, the
 whole subject of Judaeo-Christian culture and spirituality. A search is
 being made for the original meaning of issues with which we have
 become almost too familiar and which with the passing of the centuries
 have tended to become choked with inessentials, and it has led not
 only to a renewed preoccupation with the primitive but fuly developed
 expression of these issues in the Scriptures, but also to a desire for
 knowledge and understanding of their prehistory.
 The laws and rules, hymns and other liturgical works as wel as the
 Bible commentaries of the Qumran Community respond to this need in
 that they add substance and depth to the historical period in which
 Jewish Christianity and rabbinic Judaism originated. They reveal one
 facet of the spiritual ferment at work among the various Palestinian
 religious parties at that time, a ferment which culminated in a thorough
 re-examination and reinterpretation of the fundamentals of the Jewish
 faith. By dweling in such detail on the intimate organization of their
 society, on the role attributed to their Teacher and on their ultimate
 hopes and expectations, the sect of the Scrols has exposed its own
 resulting synthesis. This in its turn has thrown into relief and added a
 new dimension to its dissenting contemporaries. Thus, compared with
 the ultra-conservative rigidity of the Essene Rule, rabbinic Judaism
 reveals itself as progressive and flexible, while the religion preached
 and practised by Jesus of Nazareth stands out invested with religious
 individuality and actuality. Also, by comparison to al three, the
 ideology of the Gentile Church sounds a definitely alien note.
 67 Yet at
 the same time, the common ground from which they al sprang, and
their affinities and borrowings, show themselves more clearly than ever
 before. It is no exaggeration to state that none of these religious
 movements can properly be understood independently of the others.
 Essenism is dead. The brittle structure of its stiff and exclusive
 brotherhood was unable to withstand the national catastrophe which
 struck Palestinian Judaism in 70 CE. Animated by the loftiest of ideals
 and devoted to the observance of ‘perfect holiness’, it yet lacked the
 pliant strength and the elasticity of thought and depth of spiritual vision
 which enabled rabbinic Judaism to survive and flourish. And although
 the Teacher of Righteousness clearly sensed the deeper obligations
 implicit in the Mosaic Law, he was without the genius of Jesus the Jew
 who succeeded in uncovering the essence of religion as an existential
 relationship between man and man and man and God.
II. The Community
 Since the early 1950s, the information garnered from the Scrols and
 from Qumran’s archaeological remains has been combined by experts
 to form a persuasive portrait of the people to which they alude. Yet for
 al the advances made in knowledge and understanding, the enigma of
 the sect is by no means definitely solved. After al this time, we are sti l
 not certain that we have colated the whole evidence correctly or
 interpreted it properly. Questions continue to arise in the mind and
 there is sti l no way to be sure of the answers.
 Our perplexity is mainly due to an absence in the documents, singly
 or together, of any systematic exposition of the sect’s constitution and
 laws. The Community Rule legislates for a group of ascetics living in a
 kind of ‘monastic’ society, the statutes of the Damascus Document for
 an ordinary lay existence; MMT (Miqsat Ma‘ase ha-Torah, or Some
 Observances of the Law) probably echoes the prehistory or early
 history of the sect; and the War Rule and Messianic Rule in their turn,
 while associated with the Community Rule and the Damascus
 Document, and no doubt reflecting to some extent a contemporary
 state of affairs, first and foremost plan for a future age.
 Taken together, however, it is clear from this literature that the
 sectaries regarded themselves as the true Israel, the repository of the
 authentic traditions of the religious body from which they had seceded.
 Accordingly, they organized their movement so that it corresponded
 faithfuly to that of the Jewish people, dividing it into priests and laity (or
 Aaron and Israel), and the laity grouped after the biblical model into
 twelve tribes. This structure is described in the War Scrol’s account of
 reconstituted Temple worship as it was expected to be at the end of
 time:
 . the twelve chief Priests sha l minister at the daily sacrifice before God
 . Below them . shal be the chiefs of the Levites to the number of twelve,
 one for each tribe . Below them shal be the chiefs of the tribes .
 (IQM 11, 1-3)
Sti l fo lowing the biblical pattern, sectarian society (apart from the tribe
 of Levi) was further distinguished into units of Thousands, Hundreds,
 Fifties and Tens (IQS 11, 21; CD X I, 1-2). To what extent these
 figures are symbolical, we do not know, but it is improbable that
 ‘Thousands’ amounted to anything more than a figure of speech. It is
 not irrelevant, in this connection, to note that the archaeologists have
 deduced from the fact that the cemetery contained 1,100 graves, dug
 over the course of roughly 200 years, that the population of Qumran, an
 establishment of undoubted importance, can never have numbered
 more than 150 to 200 souls at a time. Also, it should be borne in mind
 that the total membership of the Essene sect in the first century CE
 only slightly exceeded ‘four thousand’ (Josephus, Antiquities XV I, 21).
 To consider now the two types separately, the ‘monastic’
 brotherhood at Qumran aludes to itself in the Community Rule as ‘the
 men of holiness’ and ‘the men of perfect holiness’, and to the sect as
 ‘the Community’ and ‘Council of the Community’ or ‘the men of the
 Law’ (4QSd=4Q258). The establishment was devoted exclusively to
 religion. Work must have formed a necessary part of their existence; it
 is obvious from the remains discovered at Qumran that they farmed,
 made pots, cured hides and reproduced manuscripts. But no
 indication of this appears in the documents. It is said only that they
 were to ‘eat in common and bless in common and deliberate in
 common’ (IQS VI, 2-3), living in such a way as to ‘seek God with a
 whole heart and soul’ (IQS 1, 1-2). Perfectly obedient to each and
 every one of the laws of Moses and to al that was commanded by the
 Prophets, they were to love one another and to share with one another
 their ‘knowledge, powers and possessions’ (IQS I, I). They were to be
 scrupulous in their observance of the times appointed for prayer, and
 for every other aspect of a liturgical existence conducted apart from
 the Temple of Jerusalem and its official cult. ‘Separate from the
 habitation of unjust men’ (IQS V I, 13), they were to study the Torah in
 the wilderness and thereby ‘atone for the Land’ (IQS V I, 6, 10) and its
 wicked men, for whom they were to nourish an ‘everlasting hatred’
 (IQS ix, 21), though this went together with a firm conviction that their
fate was in God’s hands alone. And the poet proclaims in the Hymn
 with which the Community Rule ends:
 I wi l pay to no man the reward of evil;
 I wi l pursue him with goodness.
 For judgement of al the living is with God
 And it is He who wi l render to man his reward.
 (IQS x, 17-18)
 They were to be truthful, humble, just, upright, charitable and modest.
 They were to
 watch in community for a third of every night of the year, to read the Book
 and to study the Law and to bless together.
 (IQS VI, 7-8)
 These are, as may be seen, mostly the sort of recommendations to be
 expected of men devoting themselves to contemplation. A point to
 bear in mind, however, is that the contemplative life is not a regular
 feature of Judaism. An additional distinctive trait of these sectaries is
 that another qualification was required of them besides holiness: they
 were expected to become proficient in the knowledge of the ‘two
 spirits’ in which a l men ‘walk’, the spirits of truth and falsehood, and to
 learn how to discriminate between them. They were taught in the so
caled ‘instruction concerning the Two Spirits’, the earliest Jewish
 theological tractate incorporated into the Community Rule, how to
 recognize a ‘son of Light’ or potential ‘son of Light’, and how to
 distinguish a ‘son of Darkness’ belonging to the lot of Belial (IQS I, 13
IV, 25; cf. below pp. 73-4).
 The hierarchy at Qumran was strict and formal, from the highest level
 to the lowest. Every sectary was inscribed in ‘the order of his rank’
 (IQS VI, 22) - the term ‘order’ recurs constantly - and was obliged to
 keep to it in al the Community meetings and at table, an order that
 was subject to an annual review on the Feast of the Renewal of the
 Covenant. But after democratic beginnings, with the ‘Congregation’
 (litera ly, ‘the Many’) as such forming the supreme authority, testified to
by what seems to be the earliest formulation of the communal
 constitution (cf. 4QSb,d=4Q256, 258, see below, pp. 118-19), the
 ‘sons of Zadok, the priests’, members of the ‘Zadokite’ high-priestly
 family, took over the leadership of the sect. Although nothing to this
 effect is mentioned specificaly in the Community Rule, the superior,
 the so-caled mebaqqer or Guardian, was undoubtedly one of their
 number, as was the Bursar of the Congregation entrusted with
 handling the material affairs of the Community. In their hands lay the
 ultimate responsibility for decisions on matters of doctrine, discipline,
 purity and impurity, and in particular everything pertaining to ‘justice
 and property’ (IQS IX, 7). It was also a basic rule of the order that a
 priest was required to be present at any gathering of ten or more
 members who were meeting for debate, Bible study or prayer. A priest
 was to recite the grace before the common meals and to pronounce
 blessings (IQS VI, 3-8). He was no doubt the man whose duty it was to
 study the Law continualy (IQS VI, 7; V I, 11-12). One interesting
 feature of the priesthood at Qumran is that their precedence was
 absolute. In Judaism as represented by the Mishnah, the priest is
 superior to the Levite, the Levite to the Israelite, and the Israelite to the
 ‘bastard’ (Horayot I, 8). But the priestly precedence is conditional. If
 the ‘bastard’ is a man of learning, we are told, and the High Priest an
 uneducated ‘boor’, ‘the bastard ... precedes the High Priest’.
 The highest office was vested in the person of the Guardian, known
 also, it would seem, as the ‘Master’ (maskil). The Community was to
 be taught by him how to live in conformity with the ‘Book of the
 Community Rule’ (IQS 1, 1; 4QSa=4Q255), and to be instructed by him
 in the doctrine of the ‘two spirits’. He was to preside over assemblies,
 giving leave to speak to those wishing to do so (IQS VI, 11-13). He
 was to assess, in concert with the brethren, the spiritual progress of
 the men in his charge and rank them accordingly (IQS VI, 21-2). And
 negatively, he was not to dispute with ‘the men of the Pit (or Dawn)’
 and not to transmit to them the sect’s teachings (IQS IX, 16-17). Of the
 sect’s institutions, the most significant appears to have been the
 Council of the Community, or assembly of the Congregation. From a
 passage ordering al the members to sit in their correct places - ‘the
 Priests shal sit first, and the elders second, and al the rest of the
people according to their rank’ (IQS VI, 8-9) - the Council seems to
 have been a gathering of the whole community, under the priests and
 men of importance, marshaled by the Levites, and with the Guardian
 at the head. But in another text, generaly held to be an early section,
 the rule is as folows:
 In the Council of the Community there shal be twelve men and three
 Priests, perfectly versed in a l that is revealed of the Law, whose works
 shal be truth, righteousness, justice, loving-kindness and humility. They
 shal preserve the faith in the Land with steadfastness and meekness and
 shal atone for sin by the practice of justice and by sufering the sorrows of
 afliction. They sha l walk with al men according to the standard of truth
 and the rule of the time.
 (IQS V I, 1-4)
 These three priests and twelve men are referred to also as ‘fifteen
 men’ in a hybrid version of the Community Rule and the Damascus
 Document (4Q265 fr. 7 ii). Their presence was obviously essential:
 both documents state that when they ‘are in Israel, the Council of the
 Community shal be established in truth’ (IQS V I, 4-5; 4Q265 fr. 7 ii, 7
8). But whether they formed the nucleus of the sect as a whole, or the
 minimum quorum of the leadership of the Community, symbolicaly
 portrayed as consisting of the twelve tribes and the three Levitical
 clans, or a special elite within the Council designated elsewhere ‘the
 Foundations of the Community’, must be left open to question. The
 purpose of the meetings is in any case clear. It was to debate the Law,
 to discuss their current business, to select or reject newcomers under
 the guidance of the Guardian, to hear charges against offenders and
 to conduct a yearly inquiry into the progress of every sectary,
 promoting or demoting them in rank, again under the Guardian’s
 supervision (IQS v, 23-4; VI, 13-23). During their sessions, order and
 quiet were to prevail: a person wishing to offer his opinion or ask a
 question was to crave permission in a prescribed way. He was to rise
 and tel the Guardian and the Congregation, ‘I have something to say
 to the Congregation’ and then wait for their consent before going
 ahead (IQS VI, 8-13).
 The procedure folowed in inquiries into infringements of the Law
and the sect’s Rule has been preserved, and the list of faults with their
 corresponding sentences tels us more about the mentality of the Dead
 Sea ascetics than any isolated exposition of their doctrine and
 principles can do.
 Beginning with the blackest sins: any transgression, by commission
 or omission, of ‘one word of the Law of Moses, on any point whatever’
 earned outright expulsion. No former companion might from then on
 associate with the sinner in any way at al (IQS V I, 21-4). Expulsion
 fo lowed, secondly, the pronouncement for any reason whatever of the
 divine Name:
 If any man has utered the [Most] Venerable Name, even though
 frivolously, or as a result of shock, or for any other reason whatever, while
 reading the Book or blessing, he shal be dismissed and shal return . no
 more.
 (IQS VI, 27-V I, 2)
 Thirdly, a sectary was expeled for slandering the Congregation (IQS
 VI, 16). Fourthly, he was sent away for rebeling against the
 ‘Foundations’ of the Community:
 Whoever has murmured against the authority of the Community shal be
 expeled and shal not return.
 (IQS VI, 17)
 Lastly, where a man had been a member of the Council for at least ten
 years and had then defected to ‘walk in the stubbornness of his heart’, not
 only was he to be expeled, but the same judgement was extended to any
 of his former coleagues who might take pity on him and share with him
 their food or money
 (IQS VI, 22-3).
 The remaining offences are of a kind that might be confessed and
 censured in any Christian religious order of today, though one cannot
 perhaps say the same of the penances imposed for them.
 In a descending order of gravity: a man who ‘betrayed the truth and
walked in the stubbornness of his heart’ (IQS VI, 18-21), or
 transgressed the Mosaic Law inadvertently (IQS V I, 24-IX, I), was
 visited with two years of penance. He was to lose his rank and during
 the first year be separated from the ‘purity’ of the Congregation, and
 during the second year, from its ‘drink’. Both notions wi l be developed
 presently. He was then to be re-examined by the Congregation and
 subsequently returned to his place in the order.
 Lying in matters of property, in al probability the partial concealment
 of personal possessions, earned exclusion from ‘purity’ for a year and
 a cut by one quarter in the food ration (IQS VI, 25-7). The penal code of
 4Q265, which closely resembles that of IQS, prescribes for deceiving
 a companion an exclusion for six months and a halving of the guilty
 person’s food portion. Disrespect to a companion of higher rank,
 rudeness and anger towards a priest, slander and deliberate insult, al
 earned one year of penance and exclusion from ‘purity’ (IQS VI, 25-7;
 VI, 2-5). After this, the sentences decrease to six months, three
 months, thirty days and ten days of penance.
 For lying deliberately and similarly deceiving by word or deed, for
 bearing malice unjustly, for taking revenge, for murmuring against a
 companion unjustly and also for going ‘naked before his companion,
 without having been obliged to do so’ - a curious proviso - the sectary
 was to atone for six months. For failing to care for a companion and for
 speaking foolishly: three months. For fa ling asleep during a meeting of
 the Council, for leaving the Council while members were standing (in
 prayer?), for spitting in Council, for ‘guffawing foolishly’, for being ‘so
 poorly dressed that when drawing his hand from beneath his garment
 his nakedness has been seen’: thirty days. The penal code contained
 in another of the Cave 4 manuscripts of the Damascus Document
 (4Q266) mentions also ten days’ penance, in addition to the thirty
 days’ expulsion inflicted on someone who has falen asleep during a
 meeting! And for leaving an assembly three times without reason, for
 interrupting another while speaking, for gesticulating with the left hand:
 ten days (IQS VI, 15). A fascinating fragment (4Q477) has preserved
 in writing cases of misbehaviour by named sectaries: ‘Yohanan son of
 ...’ was ‘short-tempered’; ‘Hananiah Notos’ led astray ‘the spirit of the
 Community’ and either pampered himself or showed favouritism to his
near kin(?); and another ‘Hananiah son of Sim[on]’ ‘loved’ something
 no doubt prohibited.
 That the common table was of high importance to Qumran daily life
 is evident from the fact that only the fuly professed and the faultless,
 that is to say those who were ‘inscribed ... for purity’ and not
 subsequently disqualified, were a lowed to sit at it. There is no explicit
 mention of a ritual bath preceding the meals, but from various
 references to purification by water, as wel as the presence of bathing
 insta lations at Qumran, it is likely that the sectaries immersed
 themselves before eating as did the Essenes according to Josephus
 (War 11, 129). But little more is learnt of the meal itself from the
 Community Rule than that when the table had been ‘prepared for
 eating, and the new wine for drinking’, the priest was to be the first to
 bless the food and drink (IQS VI, 4-5). The implication would be that
 after him the others did the same, an inference supported by the
 Messianic Rule, where a similar meal is described attended by two
 Messiahs (IQSa I, 17-21). Some uncertainty surrounds the meaning of
 ‘new wine’, but it would seem from the use in the Scrols (with the
 exception of the Temple Scrol), of the alternative Hebrew words for
 wine - tirosh and yayin - that the latter often has pejorative
 connotations. More likely than not, the ‘wine’ drunk by the sectaries,
 ‘the drink of the Congregation’, was unfermented grape-juice.
 Another topic to be considered under the heading of communal life
 and institutions is the crucial one of induction into the sect. And if it
 should seem strange to place it towards the end rather than at the
 beginning, the explanation is that with an idea, however sketchy, of
 what was entailed by adherence to the movement, the process by
 which it admitted a Jew into its company becomes easier to folow.
 According to the regime adopted at Qumran, a person desiring to join
 the sect remained on probation, certainly for two years and possibly for
 three or more. His first move was to appear before the Guardian ‘at
 the head of the Congregation’, meaning no doubt during a session of
 the Congregation, who inquired into his principles to discover if he was
 a suitable postulant. If they were satisfied, he ‘entered the Covenant’
 (IQS VI, 13-15). That is to say, he solemnly swore there and then to
 adhere to the Torah as the sect interpreted it, vowing
by a binding oath to return with al his heart and soul to every
 commandment of the Law of Moses in accordance with al that has been
 revealed of it to the sons of Zadok . the Keepers of the Covenant.
 (IQS v, 7-9)
 After a further period of unspecified length, during which he received
 instruction from the Guardian ‘in al the rules of the Community’, he
 appeared once more before the Congregation, who confirmed him as
 a novice or dismissed him. But although he was now accepted into the
 Council of the Community, he was nevertheless sti l not admitted to
 ‘purity’ for another ful year. The same rule applied also in the group
 represented by 4Q265 fr. 1.
 This concept of pure things (tohorah, taharah or tohorot, literaly
 ‘purity’ or ‘purities’) needs some comment. It seems to designate here
 as in rabbinic literature ritua ly pure food (cf. also 4Q274 I), as wel as
 the vessels and utensils in which it is contained or cooked. It includes
 also garments. The tohorot, moreover, are distinguished by the rabbis
 f rom mashqin, liquids, the latter being considered much more
 susceptible to contract impurity than solid comestibles. Hence, in
 ordering the novice not to touch the pure things of the Congregation,
 the Community forbade him al contact with its pots, plates, bowls and
 necessarily the food that they held. He was not, in effect, to attend the
 common table and had to eat elsewhere. Although the context is very
 different, a paralel rule figures in the Temple Scrol (LX I, 13-14),
 prohibiting a Gentile woman married to her Jewish captor to touch his
 tohorah for seven years.
 During this first year of the novitiate, the newcomer could not share
 the sect’s property. At a third Community inquiry, he was examined for
 ‘his understanding and observance of the Law’ and, if his progress
 was judged to be adequate, he handed over his money and
 belongings to the ‘Bursar of the Congregation’, but they were set aside
 and not yet absorbed into Community ownership. During this second
 year, furthermore, the ban on touching the pure things was relaxed, but
 he could stil not touch liquids, the ‘Drink [mashqeh] of the
 Congregation’ (IQS VI, 20-21; V I, 20; cf. also 4Q284 I). Finaly, with the
second year over, the novice had once more to undergo an
 examination, after which, ‘according to the judgement of the
 Congregation’, he was at last inscribed among the brethren in the
 order of his rank ‘for the Law, and for justice, and for purity’. Also, his
 property was amalgamated with theirs and he possessed the right
 from then on to speak his mind in the Council of the Community (IQS
 VI, 13-23).
 In sum, this strict and extended curriculum fals into two stages. The
 postulant is first brought into the Covenant, swearing total fidelity to the
 Mosaic Law as interpreted by the sect’s priestly teachers, and to
 ‘separate from al the men of injustice who walk in the way of
 wickedness’ (IQS v, 10-11). He then secondly embarks on a course of
 training as a preliminary to joining the ‘holy Congregation’ (IQS v, 20).
 In other words, entering the Covenant and entering the Community was
 not one act, but two.
 It has long been debated whether the Qumran sectaries were
 married or celibate. From the image of their life projected so far on the
 basis of the Community Rule, few wil probably disagree that the idea
 of the presence of women among them appears incongruous. The
 impression received is that of a wholy masculine society: indeed, they
 were actualy enjoined not to ‘folow a sinful heart and lustful eyes,
 committing al manner of evil’ (IQS 1, 6). In further support of the
 argument for celibacy, the word ishah, woman, occurs nowhere in the
 Community Rule. Or rather, to be more exact, it is encountered once in
 the final Hymn, in the cliché, ‘one born of woman’ (IQS xi, 21).
 Moreover, against the Cave 4 Damascus Document regulation
 (4Q270 fr. 7), which envisages a membership of married people and
 imposes the penalty of expulsion on anyone murmuring against ‘the
 Fathers’ but only a ten-day penance for murmuring against ‘the
 Mothers’, the Community Rule speaks only of the crime of murmuring
 against ‘the authority of the Community’ (IQS VI, 17). Silence
 concerning the presence of women seems therefore deliberate. Yet
 the fact cannot be overlooked that although in the main graveyard itself
 the twenty-six tombs so far opened at random (out of 1,100) have al
 contained adult male skeletons, the archaeologists have uncovered on
 the peripheries of the cemetery the bones of six women and three
children too (R. de Vaux, Archaeology and the Dead Sea Scro ls, 47
8; J.-P. Humbert, Foui les de Kh. Qumrân, 346-52). A more extensive
 exploration of the cemetery would eliminate most of these
 uncertainties.
 The Damascus Document, the hybrid Community Rule-Damascus
 Document text (4Q265) and the Temple Scrol, as wel as the
 Messianic Rule and occasionaly the War Rule and MMT, are
 concerned with a style of religious existence quite at variance with that
 at Qumran. In the ‘towns’ or ‘camps’, as the Damascus Document
 terms them (CD XI, 19, 23), adherents of the sect lived an urban or
 vi lage life side by side with, yet apart from, their felow Jewish and
 Gentile neighbours. They had wives and reared children, but clearly
 their sexual morality folowed particularly strict rules. A Cave 4
 Damascus Document manuscript lays down that ‘whoever has
 approached his wife, not according to the rules, (thus) fornicating, he
 shal leave and wil not return again’ (4Q270 fr. 7 i). The married
 sectaries employed servants, engaged in commerce and trade (even
 with Gentiles), tended cattle, grew vines and corn in the surrounding
 fields, and discharged their duties to the Temple by way of offerings,
 but in doing so they were obliged like their brothers in the desert to
 show absolute obedience to the Law and to observe the sect’s
 ‘appointed times’. There is no indication, however, that the continual
 and intensive study of the Torah played any part in their lives. Nor in
 their regard is there any mention of instruction in the doctrine of the two
 spirits, as membership of the group was a birthright and not the
 outcome of a process of selection and training.
 How many of these people, if any, lived in Jerusalem is not known,
 but they must at least have visited the city from time to time, since a
 statute forbids them to enter the ‘house of worship’ (possibly the
 Temple) in a state of ritual uncleanness, or to ‘lie with a woman in the
 city of the Sanctuary to defile the city of the Sanctuary with their
 uncleanness’ (CD I, 22; X I, 1; TS XLV, 11-12).
 Little is revealed in the Damascus Document of how the life span of
 the individual progressed in the ‘towns’, and for this we have to turn to
 the Messianic Rule in the hope that it reflects contemporary actuality
 as wel as the ideal life of an age to come.
According to the latter Rule, members of the Covenant were
 permitted to marry at the age of twenty, when they were estimated to
 have reached adulthood and to ‘know [good] and evil’ (IQSa 1, 9-11).
 For the subsequent five years they were then alowed to ‘assist’ (as
 opposed to taking an active part) at hearings and judgements. At
 twenty-five, they advanced one grade further and qualified to ‘work in
 the service of the Congregation’ (IQSa 1, 12-13). At thirty, they were
 regarded as at last fuly mature and could ‘participate’ in the affairs of
 the tribunals and assemblies, taking their place among the higher
 ranks of the sect, the ‘chiefs of the thousands of Israel, the chiefs of the
 Hundreds, Fifties and Tens, the Judges and the officers of their tribes,
 in al their families, [under the authority] of the sons of [Aar]on the
 Priests’ (IQSa 1, 8-16). As office-holders, they were expected to
 perform their duties to the best of their ability and were accorded more
 honour or less in conformity with their ‘understanding’ and the
 ‘perfection’ of their ‘way’. As they grew older, so their burdens became
 lighter (IQSa 1, 19).
 As at Qumran, supreme authority rested in the hands of the priests,
 and every group of ten or more was to include a priest ‘learned in the
 Book of Meditation’ and to be ‘ruled by him’ (CD X I, 2-3). His
 precedence, on the other hand, is not represented as absolute in the
 ‘towns’. It is explicitly stated that in the absence of a properly qualified
 priest, he was to be replaced by a Levite who would perform al the
 functions of a superior except those specialy reserved in the Bible to
 the priesthood such as applying the laws of leprosy (CD X I, 3-7). The
 Cave 4 manuscripts of the Damascus Document (4Q266, 269, 272-3)
 describe at length the diagnosis of the onset and eventual cure of skin
 disease. Priests with speech defects, those who had been prisoners
 of war or had settled and been active among Gentiles were
 disqualified from performing priestly duties or eating ‘sacred food’
 (4Q266 fr. 5). The Cave 4 version of the Damascus Document
 legislates also on agricultural priestly dues (4Q266 fr. 6; 271fr. 2).
 As in the Community Rule, the head of the ‘camp’ is designated in
 the Damascus Document, as wel as in 4QDa (4Q266 fr. 5 i) and in the
 hybrid 4Q265 fr. 1 ii, as the mebaqqer or Guardian. He appears,
 however, not to be supported by a council. In fact, the words ‘Council of
the Community’ are absent from this document apart from the
 transitional 4Q265 frs. 1 ii and 7 ii, where the use of the term is more
 general in the first case and represents the ideal nucleus of the sect in
 the second. There is reference to the ‘company of Israel’, on the advice
 of which it would be licit to attack Gentiles (CD XI, 8), but this type of
 war council, mentioned also in the Messianic Rule (IQSa 1, 26), can
 surely have had nothing to do with the assemblies described in the
 Community Rule. (The only possible paralel is the ‘council of Holiness’
 in CD xx, 24, in which a not strictly observant member was to be
 judged.) The Guardian of the ‘camps’, in any case, stands on his own
 as teacher and helper of his people. He shal love them, writes the
 author,
 as a father loves his children, and shal carry them in al their distress
 like a shepherd his sheep. He shal loosen al the feters which bind them
 that in his Congregation there may be none that are oppressed or broken.
 (CD X I, 9-10)
 The Guardian was to examine newcomers to his congregation, though
 not, it should be noted, to determine their ‘spirit’, and was to serve as
 the deciding authority on the question of their admission (cf. also
 4Q265 fr. 1 ii). These offices are of course already familiar to us from
 the Community Rule. But an additional task of the mebaqqer in the
 towns was to ensure that no friendly contact occurred between his
 congregation and anyone outside the sect. Whatever exchanges took
 place had to be paid for; and even these transactions were to be
 subject to his consent (CD X I, 14-16).
 Instead of dealing with offenders in Community courts of inquiry, the
 towns had their tribunals for hearing cases, equipped moreover with
 ‘judges’. These were to be ten in number, elected for a specific term
 and drawn from the tribes of Levi, Aaron and Israel: four priests and
 Levites, and six laymen (CD x, 4-7). They were to be not younger than
 twenty-five and not older than sixty - in the Messianic Rule, which also
 speaks of judges, the age-limits are thirty and sixty years (IQSa 1, 13
15) - and were to be expert in biblical law and the ‘constitutions of the
 Covenant’. The arrangement would seem, in fact, to be fairly
straightforward. Yet it is not entirely so. For example, it is evident that
 the Guardian was also implicated in legal matters; he had to determine
 whether a proper case had been made out against a sectary and
 whether it should be brought before the court (CD ix, 16-20), and in
 certain cases he appears to have imposed penalties on his own (CD
 xv, 13-14). The ‘Priest overseeing the Congregation’ of one of the
 Cave 4 fragments of the Damascus Document (4Q270 fr. 7 i-ii)
 appears to perform the same single judicial function as the Guardian in
 the case of an inadvertent sin. We are not told whether the ten judges
 sat together, whether they were al drawn from the locality in which they
 lived, or whether they trave led as it were on circuit as nowadays. The
 code of law they were expected to administer, as laid down in the
 Damascus Document, differs in content from that of the Community
 Rule. Furthermore, although, unlike the Qumran code, a sentence is
 prescribed only rarely, sometimes it is the death penalty. We have
 here, in addition to matters relating primarily to communal discipline to
 a large extent identical with the Community Rule, a more detailed
 sectarian reformulation of scriptural laws regulating Jewish life as
 such.
 The first group of statutes, concerned with vows, opens with the
 injunction that in order to avoid being put to death for the capital sin of
 uttering the names of God, the sectary must swear by the Covenant
 alone. Such an oath would be fuly obligatory and might not be
 canceled (CD XVI, 7-8). If he subsequently violated his oath, he would
 then have only to confess to the priest and make restitution (CD xv, 1
5). The sectary is also ordered not to vow to the altar articles acquired
 unlawfuly, or the food of his own house (CD xvi, 13-15), and not to
 make any vow ‘in the fields’ but always before the judges (CD IX, 9
10). He is threatened with death if he ‘vows another to destruction by
 the laws of the Gentiles’ (CD IX, 1). As for the right conferred by the
 Bible on fathers and husbands to annul vows made by their daughters
 or wives, the Damascus Document limits it to the cancelation of oaths
 which should have never been made in the first place (CD XVI, 10-12;
 for a somewhat different rule, see TS L I, 16-LIV, 5). It is clearly stated
 that no accusation is valid without prior warnings before witnesses
 (CD IX, 2-3). A record of reported moral failings (4Q477) has already
been quoted (cf. above, pp. 31-2).
 A few ordinances are concerned with witnesses. No one under the
 age of twenty was to testify before the judges in a capital charge (CD
 ix, 23-X, 2). Also, whereas the normal biblical custom is that two or
 three witnesses are needed before any sentence can be pronounced
 (Deut. xix, 15; cf. also IQTS LXI, 6-12), a single witness being quite
 unacceptable, unustestis nu lus testis, sectarian law alowed the
 indictment of a man guilty of repeating the same capital offence on the
 testimony of single witnesses to the separate occasions on which it
 was committed, providing they reported it to the Guardian at once and
 that the Guardian recorded it at once in writing (CD IX, 17-20). With
 regard to capital cases, to which should be added apostasy in a state
 of demonic possession (CD XI, 2-3), the adultery of a betrothed girl
 (4Q159, fr. 224, 10-11), slandering the people of Israel and treason
 (TS LXIV, 6-13), it is highly unlikely that either the Jewish or the Roman
 authorities would have granted any rights of execution to the sect. So
 this is probably part of the sect’s vision of the future age, when it as
 Israel de jure would constitute de facto the government of the chosen
 people.
 The penal code of the Damascus Document (4Q270) stipulates
 irrevocable expulsion in the case of a man ‘fornicating’ with his wife.
 This may refer to i licit sexual relations with a menstruating woman or,
 perhaps more likely, with a pregnant or post-menopausal woman
 since, as Josephus clearly states in connection with married Essenes,
 sex between spouses was licit only if it could result in conception (War
 11, 161).
 A section devoted to Sabbath laws displays a marked bias towards
 severity. In time, rabbinic law developed the Sabbath rules in sti l
 greater detail than appears here, but the tendency is already manifest.
 The sectary was not only to abstain from labour ‘on the sixth day
 from the moment when the sun’s orb is distant by its own fulness from
 the gate (wherein it sinks)’ (CD x, 15-16), he was not even to speak
 about work. Nothing associated with money or gain was to interrupt his
 Sabbath of rest (CD x, 18-19). No member of the Covenant of God
 was to go out of his house on business on the Sabbath. In fact, he was
 not to go out, for any reason, further than 1,000 cubits (about 500
yards), though he could pasture his beast at a distance of 2,000 cubits
 from his town (CD x, 21; XI, 5-6). He could not cook. He could not pick
 and eat fruit and other edible things ‘lying in the fields’. He could not
 draw water and carry it away, but must drink where he found it (CD X,
 22-3). He could not strike his beast or reprimand his servant (CD XI, 6,
 12). He could not carry a child, wear perfume or sweep up the dust in
 his house (CD XI, 10-11). He could not assist his animals to give birth
 or help them if they fel into a pit; he could, however, pul a man out of
 water or fire without the help of a ladder or rope (CD xi, 13-14, 16-17).
 Interpreting the Bible restrictively (Lev. xxiii, 38), the sect’s lawmaker
 (or makers) commanded him to offer no sacrifice on the Sabbath save
 the Sabbath burnt-offering, and never to send a gift to the Temple by
 the hand of one ‘smitten with any uncleanness permitting him thus to
 defile the altar’ (CD xi, 19-20). He was also never to have intercourse
 while in the ‘city of the Sanctuary’ (CD X I, 1-2; 11QTS XLV, 1-12).
 The punishment imposed for profaning the Sabbath and the feasts
 in any of these ways was not death as in the Bible (Num. XV, 35), nor
 even expulsion as in the Community Rule. It was seven years’
 imprisonment.
 It sha l fa l to men to keep him in custody. And if he is healed of his error,
 they shal keep him in custody for seven years and he shal afterwards
 approach the Assembly.
 (CD XI, 4-6)
 In the last group, the ordinances appear to be only loosely connected,
 though some of them involve relations with the larger Jewish-Gentile
 world. One such forbids ki ling or stealing from a non-Jew, ‘unless so
 advised by the company of Israel’ (CD XI, 6-8). Another proscribes the
 sale to Gentiles of ritualy pure beasts and birds, as wel as the
 produce of granary and wine-press, in case they should blaspheme by
 offering them in heathen sacrifice. MMT further prohibits acceptance of
 offerings (wheat or meat) by Gentiles (4Q394 frs. 3-7). A ban is
 similarly laid on seling to Gentiles foreign servants converted to the
 Jewish faith (CD XI, 11). But in addition to these regulations affecting
 contacts with non-Jews, a few are concerned with dietary restrictions.
Thus:
 No man shal defile himself by eating any live creature or creeping thing,
 from the larvae of bees to al creatures which creep in water.
 (CD XI, 12-13)
 Others deal with the laws of purity (CD XI, 16-18) and purification (CD
 x, 10-13) and with uncleanness resulting from various sexual
 discharges and childbirth (4Q266 fr. 6 i-ii). Outside the Damascus
 Document, the B section of MMT (4Q394-5), 4QPurities (4Q274, 276
7, 284) and the Temple Scrol (11QTS XLV-LI) provide ample
 information on purity matters, including the law relative to the burning of
 the ‘red heifer’ whose ashes were a necessary ingredient for the
 making of the ‘water for (removing) uncleanness’ (MMT 4Q394 3-7 i,
 395; 4Q276-7).
 Two types of meeting are provided for, with equal laconism: the
 ‘assembly of the camp’ presided over by a priest or a Levite and the
 ‘assembly of al the camps’ (CD XIV, 3-6). Presumably the latter was
 the general convention of the whole sect held on the Feast of the
 Renewal of the Covenant, the annual great festival aluded to in 4QD
 (266, 270), when both the ‘men of holiness’ and the ‘men of the
 Covenant’ confessed their former errors and committed themselves
 once more to perfect obedience to the Law and the sect’s teachings.
 According to the available texts, the sectaries were to be mustered
 and inscribed in their rank by name, the priests first, the Levites
 second, the Israelites third. A fourth group of proselytes is unique to the
 ‘towns’, but as has been observed these were Gentile slaves
 converted to Judaism. A further remark that in this order the sect’s
 members were to ‘be questioned on al matters’ leads one to suppose
 that the alusion must be to the yearly inquiry into their spiritual
 progress mentioned in the Community Rule (CD XIV, 3-6).
 Two Cave 4 manuscripts of the Damascus Document describe the
 expulsion ceremony of an unfaithful member. He was cursed and
 dismissed by the Priest overseeing the Congregation and cursed also
 by al the inhabitants of the camps. Should the latter maintain contact
with the renegade, they would forfeit their own membership of the sect
 (4Q266 fr. 11 ii; 270 fr. 7 i-ii).
 Apart from these familiar directions, we learn only that the priest who
 mustered the gathering was to be between thirty and sixty years old
 and, needless to say, ‘learned in the Book of Meditation’. The
 ‘Guardian of al the camps’, in his turn, was to be between thirty and
 fifty, and to have ‘mastered al the secrets of men and the language of
 al their clans’. He was to decide who was to be admitted, and anything
 connected with a ‘suit or judgement’ was to be brought to him (CD XIV,
 7-12).
 As for the initiation of new members, the Statutes appear to
 legislate for young men reaching their majority within the brotherhood
 and for recruits from outside. This is not entirely clear, but the
 instruction that an aspirant was not to be informed of the sect’s rules
 until he had stood before the Guardian can hardly have applied to a
 person brought up within its close circle (CD xv, 5-6, 10-11).
 Of the sect’s own young men the Damascus Document writes
 merely:
 And al those who have entered the Covenant, granted to al Israel for
 ever, sha l make their children who have reached the age of enrolment,
 swear with the oath of the Covenant.
 (CD xv, 5-6)
 The Messianic Rule is more discursive. There, enrolment into the sect
 is represented as the climax of a childhood and youth spent in study.
 Teaching of the Bible and in the ‘precepts of the Covenant’ began long
 before the age of ten, at which age a boy embarked on a further ten
 years of instruction in the statutes. It was not until after a l this that he
 was finaly ready.
 From [his] youth they shal instruct him in the Book of Meditation and shal
 teach him, according to his age, the precepts of the Covenant. They [shal
 be edu]cated in their statutes for ten years . At the age of twenty years [he
 shal be] enroled, that he may enter upon his aloted duties in the midst
 of his family (and) be joined to the holy congregation.
 (IQSa 1, 6-9)
The newcomer from outside who repented of his ‘corrupted way’ was
 to be enroled ‘with the oath of the Covenant’ on the day that he spoke
 to the Guardian, but no sectarian statute was to be divulged to him ‘lest
 when examining him the Guardian be deceived by him’ (CD xv, 7-11).
 Nevertheless, if he broke that oath, ‘retribution’ would be exacted of
 him. The text subsequently becomes fragmentary and unreliable, but
 he is told where to find the liturgical calendar which his oath obliges
 him to folow.
 As for the exact determination of their times to which
 Israel turns a blind eye, behold it is strictly defined in the
 Book of the Divisions of the Times into their Jubilees and
 Weeks.
 (CD XVI, 2-4)
 It 
should be added here that one big difference between the
 organization of the brethren in the towns and those of the ‘monastic’
 settlement is that new members were not required to surrender their
 property. There was none of the voluntary communism found at
 Qumran. On the other hand, where the desert sectaries practised
 common ownership, those of the towns contributed to the assistance
 of their fe lows in need. Every man able to do so was ordered to hand
 over a minimum of two days’ wages a month to a charitable fund, and
 from it the Guardian and the judges distributed help to the orphans, the
 poor, the old and sick, to unmarried women without support and to
 prisoners held in foreign hands and in need of redemption (CD XIV,
 12-16).
 When the two varieties of sectarian life are compared, we find many
 similarities, especia ly since the fragments of 4QD and 4Q265 have
 become accessible, but some of the differences sti l remain striking. In
 the desert of Qumran men lived together in seclusion; in the towns they
 were grouped in families, surrounded by non-members with whom they
 were in inevitable though exiguous contact. The desert brotherhood
 was to keep apart from the Temple in Jerusalem until the restoration of
the true cult in the seventh year of the eschatological war; the town
 sectaries participated in worship there. The judges of the towns had no
 counterparts at Qumran. The Qumran Guardian was supported by a
 Council; the town Guardians acted independently. Unfaithful desert
 sectaries were sentenced to irrevocable excommunication, or to
 temporary exclusion from the common life, or to suffer lighter
 penances; the penal code concerned with the towns envisages also
 the death penalty (whether actualy executed or not) as wel as
 corrective custody. The common table and the ‘purity’ associated with
 it played an essential role at Qumran; in connection with the towns the
 common meal, but not the pure food, goes unmentioned. Furthermore,
 at Qumran al the new recruits came from outside; in the towns, some
 were converts but others were the sons of sectaries. The desert
 novices underwent two years of training and were instructed in the
 doctrine of the ‘two spirits’; the towns’ converts were subjected to
 neither experience. In the desert, property was owned in common; in
 the towns, it was not. And last but not least, the desert community
 appears to have practised celibacy, whereas the town sectaries
 patently did not.
 Yet despite the dissimilarities, at the basic level of doctrine, aims
 and principles, a perceptible bond links the brethren of the desert with
 those of the towns. They both claim to represent the true Israel. They
 both are led by priests, Zadokite priests according to 1QS, the
 Damascus Document and the Messianic Rule, but not 4QSb(=4Q256),
 4QSd (=4Q258) and MMT.
 68 Both form units of Thousands, Hundreds,
 Fifties and Tens, both insist on a wholehearted return to the Mosaic
 Law in accordance with their own particular interpretation of it. They
 are both governed by priests (or Levites). The principal superior,
 teacher and administrator of both is known by the unusual title of
 mebaqqer. In both cases, initiation into the sect is preceded by entry
 into the Covenant, sworn by oath. Both groups convene yearly to
 review the order of precedence of their members after an inquiry into
 the conduct of each man during the previous twelve months. Above al,
 both embrace the same ‘unorthodox’ liturgical calendar that sets them
 apart from the rest of Jewry.
 There can be only one logical conclusion: this was a single religious
movement with two branches. It does not, however, answer al our
 questions. It does not tel us in particular whether the differentiation
 resulted from a relaxation or from a hardening of the original ascetic
 rules. Neither are we told whether the sectaries of desert and towns
 maintained regular contact among themselves. After al, the history of
 religions furnishes scores of examples of sister sects which turned into
 mortal enemies. Did the Qumran and towns felowships profess and
 practise unity? A few vital clues suggest that they did.
 One indication of a living relationship between the two groups
 derives from the Qumran library itself. In it were discovered no less
 than ten copies of the Damascus Document and other writings
 reflecting the same form of life. It seems hardly likely that they would
 have figured so prominently among the Qumran literary treasures if
 they had been the rule books of some rival institution. Besides, there
 was no trace of any other book in the caves relating to an opposing
 religious faction except perhaps in the shape of rebuttal in MMT.
 Another pointer towards unity appears in the passage of the
 Damascus Document outlining the procedure for the ‘assembly of al
 the camps’ and prescribing that the members were to be ‘inscribed by
 name’ in hierarchical rank. This clause corresponds exactly to the
 statute in the Community Rule ordaining a yearly ranking of the
 sectaries (IQS 11, 19-23), with a solemn ritual for the Renewal of the
 Covenant (for an analysis of the rite, see pp. 80-81). This leads us to
 suppose that the Feast of the Covenant, when the desert brethren held
 their annual spiritual survey, was also the occasion for that of the
 towns. Can we go further stil and establish that the two ceremonies
 took place, not only at the same time, but at the same place? In effect,
 the literary and archaeological evidence tends to support the theory
 that the ‘assembly of al the camps’, identical with the yearly assembly
 of the Qumran branch, gathered at Qumran.
 The first clue turns on the qualifications of the mebaqqer of the
 Community Rule and the Damascus Document respectively. As may
 be remembered, the superior at Qumran was required to be expert in
 recognizing ‘the nature of al the children of men according to the kind
 of spirit which they possess’ (IQS 111, 13-14), while the mebaqqer of
 the towns was to be concerned rather more with a man’s ‘deeds’,
‘possessions’, ‘ability’, etc., than with his inner spirit. When, however,
 the Damascus Document describes the attributes needed of the
 ‘Guardian of al the camps’, what do we find but a reformulation of
 those accredited to the superior of the desert community, that he
 should know ‘al the secrets of men and al the languages of their
 clans’? It would emerge from this, therefore, that the Guardian of al the
 camps and the Guardian at Qumran were one and the same person.
 The next hint comes from the fact that the Damascus Document is
 directed to both desert and town sectaries. As an example, the
 passage from the Exhortation advising men to choose whatever is
 pleasing to God and to reject whatever he hates, ‘that you may walk
 perfectly in al His ways and not folow after thoughts of the guilty
 inclination and after eyes of lust’ (CD 11, 15-16), seems to be
 addressed to celibates. Yet in this very same document we later come
 upon injunctions aimed explicitly at non-celibates:
 And if they live in camps according to the rule of the Land, marrying and
 begeting children, they sha l walk according to the Law and according to
 the statute concerning binding vows, according to the rule of the Law
 which says, Between a man and his wife and between a father and his son
 (Num. XXX, 17).
 (CD VI, 6-9)
 The Exhortation would seem in short to be a sermon intended for
 delivery on a certain occasion to married and unmarried members of
 the sect; and as its theme is perseverance in the Covenant, the
 appropriate setting would be the Feast of the Renewal of the Covenant
 in the third month (4Q266 fr. I; 270 fr. 7 i-ii), i.e. the Feast of Weeks or
 Pentecost (see below, pp. 79-80), and the venue, Qumran.
 These literary pointers are supported by two archaeological finds.
 Firstly, the twenty-six deposits of animal bones buried on the Qumran
 site - goats, sheep, lambs, calves, cows or oxen - have for long
 intrigued scholars. Can J. T. Milik be correct in identifying them as the
 remains of meals served to large groups of pilgrims in the Qumran
 mother-house of the sect (Ten Years of Discovery in the Wilderness
 of Judaea, p. 117)? Naturaly, he too connects the gathering with the
Covenant festival.
 The second archaeological clue also is concerned with bones. The
 skeletons of four women and one child, and possibly of two further
 female bodies and those of two children, were found in the extension
 of the Qumran cemetery. Now, if the Renewal of the Covenant was
 attended by sectaries from the towns and their families, this may wel
 account for the presence of dead women and children among the
 otherwise male skeletons of the graveyard proper.
 Drawing the threads of these various arguments together, there
 would seem to be little doubt not only that the desert and town
 sectaries were united in doctrine and organization, but that they
 remained in actual and regular touch with each other, under the
 ultimate administrative and spiritual authority of the shadowy figure of
 the Priest, of whom we hear so little, and his dominant partner, the
 Qumran Guardian, Guardian of al the camps. Qumran, it seems, was
 the seat of the sect’s hierarchy and also the centre to which al those
 turned who professed alegiance to the Council of the Covenant.
 APPENDIX: THE ESSENES AND THE QUMRAN
 COMMUNITY
 The Essenes
 Prior to Qumran, the primary sources concerning the Essenes, a
 Jewish religious community flourishing during the last two centuries of
 the Second Temple era (c. 150 BCE-70 CE), were furnished by the
 Greek writings of two Jewish authors, Philo of Alexandria (That Every
 Good Man Should be Free, 75-91; Apology for the Jews, quoted in
 Eusebius, Praeparatio evangelica V I, 6-7) and Flavius Josephus
 (War 11, 119-61; Antiquities XV I, 18-22), and by the Roman
 geographer and naturalist, Pliny the Elder, who left a short but very
 important notice in Latin (Natural History v, 17, 4[73]). For a more
 detailed account, see Geza Vermes and Martin Goodman, The
Essenes According to the Classical Sources (Sheffield, 1989).
 Despite the apparent importance attributed to it by Philo, Josephus
 and Pliny, the sect is not explicitly mentioned either in the New
 Testament or in rabbinic literature. There is no general agreement
 regarding the meaning of the group’s name: Essaioi or Essenoi in
 Greek, and Esseni in Latin. The designation may signify ‘the Pious’, or
 ‘the Healers’, devoted to the cure of body and soul. If the latter
 interpretation is adopted, it provides a paralel to the Greek
 Therapeutai, the title given by Philo to an Egyptian-Jewish ascetic
 society akin to the Essenes (cf. HJP 11, 593-7; Vermes-Goodman,
 The Essenes ... , 15-17). There are a number of other, less wel
established, explanations.
 The membership of the Palestinian group exceeded four thousand.
 Josephus and Philo locate them in Judaean towns; Pliny refers only to
 a single Essene settlement in the wilderness between Jericho and
 Engedi.
 Individual congregations, directed by superiors, resided in
 commonly occupied houses. Initiation consisted of one year of
 probation, and two years of further training, leading to ful table
fe lowship on swearing an oath of loyalty to the sect. Only adult men
 qualified according to Philo and Pliny, but Josephus reports that boys
 were also trained by them. Serious disobedience resulted in expulsion
 from the order.
 One of the principal characteristics of the Essenes was common
 ownership of property. New members handed over their belongings to
 the superiors, who colected also the wages earned by every sectary.
 Agriculture was the main Essene occupation. Having renounced
 private possessions, the members received al that they needed: food,
 clothes, care. Further peculiarities included the wearing of white
 garments; ritual bathing before meals which were given only to
 initiates, and cooked and blessed by priests; the rejection of animal
 sacrifice and of oaths to support their statements, and, above al, of
 marriage. Josephus, however, admits that one Essene branch
 adopted the married state as long as sex was used only for the
 purpose of procreation.
 Theologica ly, they showed extreme reverence for the Law and were
famous for their strictest observance of the Sabbath. Their esoteric
 teachings were recorded in secret books. Experts in the healing of
 body and soul, they also exceled in prophecy. They preferred belief in
 Fate to freedom of the wil and, rejecting the notion of bodily
 resurrection, envisaged a purely spiritual afterlife.
 Essenes and Qumran
 The common opinion identifying or closely associating the Qumran
 sectaries with the Essenes is based on three principal considerations.
 1. There is no better site than Qumran to correspond to Pliny’s
 settlement between Jericho and Engedi.
 2. Chronologicaly, Essene activity placed by Josephus in the
 period between Jonathan Maccabaeus (c. 150 BCE) and the
 first Jewish war (66-70 CE) and the sectarian occupation of the
 Qumran site coincide perfectly.
 3. The similarities of common life, organization and customs are
 so fundamental as to render the identification of the two bodies
 extremely probable as long as some obvious differences can
 be explained.
 A good many contradictions appear in the diverse sources and are not
 simply due to a lack of harmony between the Scrols and the Graeco
Latin documents. Thus Qumran attests both communism and private
 property; married and unmarried states. Likewise, Josephus speaks
 of celibate and married Essenes and, as has been noted (p. 38
 above), the prohibition to ‘fornicate’ with one’s wife remarkably echoes
 the married Essenes’ ban on marital sex when the woman was not in a
 state to conceive. 
69 Furthermore, the Qumran movement incorporated
 two separate branches and the manuscripts reflect an organizational
 and doctrinal development of some two centuries. It would be
 unreasonable to expect complete agreement among the sources. It
 must finaly be borne in mind that the sectarian compositions were
 written by initiates for insiders, whereas Pliny and Philo, and to some
 extent even Josephus (although he claims to have undergone a partial
Essene education), are bound to have reproduced hearsay evidence,
 unlikely to echo fuly the views and beliefs prevalent among members.
 Hence the identification of Essenism and the Qumran sect remains in
 my view the likeliest of al proposed solutions.
III. The History of the Community
 The absence from the Dead Sea Scrols of historical texts proper
 should not surprise us. Neither in the inter-Testamental period, nor in
 earlier biblical times, was the recording of history as we understand it
 a strong point among the Jews. Chroniclers are concerned not with
 factual information about bygone events, but with their religious
 significance. In Scripture, the ‘secular’ past is viewed and interpreted
 by the prophets as revealing God’s pleasure or displeasure. Victory or
 defeat in war, peace or social unrest, abundance of harvest or famine,
 serve to demonstrate the virtue or sinfulness of the nation and to
 forecast its future destiny. And when prophecy declined in the fifth
 century BCE, it was sti l not succeeded by a growth of historiography:
 only the memoirs of Ezra and Nehemiah and the reteling of the age
old stories of the kings of Israel and Judah in the Books of Chronicles
 belong to the historical genre. It was folowed instead by
 eschatological speculation, by apocalyptic visions of the end of time,
 with their awe-inspiring beasts and battles, and by announcements of
 the ultimate triumph of truth and justice in a future Kingdom of God.
 In the Scrols, the apocalyptic compositions form part of this later
 tradition. On the other hand, apart from occasional snippets in a
 liturgical calendar (4Q322, 324), an odd poem aluding to ‘King’
 Jonathan (4Q448), and deductive conclusions made from the
 comparative study of rules, most of the knowledge we possess of the
 sect’s history originates from works of Bible interpretation. The
 Qumran writers, while meditating on the words of the Old Testament
 prophets, sought to discover in them alusions to their own past,
 present and future. Convinced that they were living in the last days,
 they read the happenings of their times as the fulfilment of biblical
 predictions.
 Yet al that these non-historical sources provide are fragments. Even
 with the help of the archaeological data from Qumran they cannot be
 made into a consistent and continuous narrative. For an understanding
of the sect’s past as it developed within the larger framework of late
 Second Temple Jewish history, we have to rely principaly on Flavius
 Josephus, the Palestinian Jew who became a Greek man of letters,
 and on other Jewish Helenists, such as the authors of the Books of the
 Maccabees, and Philo of Alexandria, al of whom inherited the Greek
 predilection for recording and interpreting the past and set out to
 depict the life of the Jews of Palestine in itself, and as part of the
 Graeco-Roman world, from the early second century BCE to the first
 anti-Roman war in 66-70 CE. It is only with the help of the wider canvas
 painted by these ancient writers that places can be found for the often
 cryptic historical a lusions contained in the Scro ls.
 1 INTER-TESTAMENTAL JEWISH HISTORY: 200
 BCE-70 CE
 At the beginning of the second century BCE, Palestinian Jewry passed
 through a state of crisis. Alexander the Great had conquered the Holy
 Land in 332 BCE and, after the early uncertainties which folowed his
 death, it became part of the empire of the Greeks of Egypt, known as
 the Ptolemies. During the third century, the Ptolemies avoided, as
 much as possible, interfering with the internal life of the Jewish nation
 and, while taxes were required to be paid, it remained under the rule of
 the High Priest and his council. Important changes in the patterns of
 population nevertheless took place during this time. Helenistic cities
 were built along the Mediterranean coast, such as Gaza, Ascalon
 (Ashkelon), Joppa (Jaffa), Dor and Acco, re-named Ptolemais. Inland
 also, to the south of the Lake of Tiberias, the ancient town of Beth
 Shean was reborn as the Greek city of Scythopolis; Samaria, the
 capital city of the Samaritans, was Helenized as Sebaste; and in
 Transjordan, Rabbath-Ammon (Amman) was re-founded as
 Philadelphia. In other words, Greeks, Macedonians and Helenized
 Phoenicians took up permanent residence on Palestinian soil and the
 further spread of Greek civilization and culture was merely a matter of
 time.
With the conquest of the Holy Land by the Seleucids, or Syrian
 Greeks, in 200 BCE, the first signs appeared of Jews succumbing to a
 foreign cultural influence. In the apocryphal Book of Ecclesiasticus,
 dated to the beginning of the second century BCE, its author, Jesus
 ben Sira, a sage from Jerusalem, rages against those ‘ungodly men’
 who have ‘forsaken the Law of the Most High God’ (xli, 8). But the real
 trouble started when Antiochus IV Epiphanes (175-164 BCE) officialy
 promoted a Helenizing programme in Judaea that was embraced with
 eagerness by the Jewish elite. The leader of the modernist faction was
 the brother of the High Priest Onias I. Known as Jesus among his
 compatriots, he adopted the Greek name of Jason, and set about
 transforming Jerusalem into a Helenistic city, by building a gymnasium
 there and persuading the Jewish youth to participate in athletic games.
 As 2 Maccabees describes the situation:
 So Helenism reached a high point with the introduction of foreign
 customs through the boundless wickedness of the impious Jason, no
 true High Priest. As a result, the priests no longer had any enthusiasm for
 their duties at the altar, but despised the temple and neglected the
 sacrifices; and in defiance of the law they eagerly contributed to the
 expenses of the wrestling-school whenever the opening gong caled
 them. They placed no value on their hereditary dignities, but cared above
 everything for He lenic honours.
 (2 Mac. iv, 13-15)
 Jason was succeeded by two other High Priests with the same Greek
 sympathies, Menelaus and Alcimus. In 169 BCE Antiochus IV visited
 Jerusalem and looted the Temple. But when in 167 he actualy
 prohibited the practice of Judaism under pain of death and
 rededicated the Jerusalem Sanctuary to Olympian Zeus, the
 ‘abomination of desolation’, the opponents of the Helenizers finaly
 rose up in violent resistance. An armed revolt was instigated by the
 priest Mattathias and his sons the Maccabee brothers, supported by
 al the traditionalist Jews, and in particular by the company of the
 Pious, the Asidaeans or Hasidim, ‘stalwarts of Israel, every one of
 them a volunteer in the cause of the Law’ (1 Mac. ii, 42-3). Led by
 Judas Maccabaeus and, after his death on the battlefield, by his
brothers Jonathan and Simon, the fierce defenders of Judaism were
 able not only to restore Jewish worship in Jerusalem, but against al
 expectations even managed to eject the ruling Seleucids and to
 liberate Judaea.
 The Maccabaean triumph was, however, not simply a
 straightforward victory of godliness and justice over idolatry and
 tyranny; it was accompanied by serious social and religious
 upheavals. There was firstly a change in the pontifical succession. With
 the murder in 171 BCE of Onias I and the deposition of the usurper,
 his brother Jason, the Zadokite family, from which the incumbents of
 the High Priest’s office traditiona ly came, lost the monopoly which it
 had held for centuries. Furthermore, when Onias IV, the son of Onias I,
 was prevented from taking over the High Priesthood from Menelaus,
 he emigrated to Egypt and in direct breach of biblical law, which
 authorizes only a single sanctuary in Jerusalem, erected a Jewish
 temple in Leontopolis with the blessing of King Ptolemy Philometor
 (182-146 BCE). His inauguration of Israelite worship outside Zion, with
 the connivance of some priests and Levites, must have scandalized
 every Palestinian conservative, especia ly other priests who belonged,
 or were alied, to the Zadokite dynasty.
 There was trouble also within the ranks of the Maccabees
 themselves. The Hasidim - or part of their group - defected when
 Alcimus, whom they trusted, was appointed High Priest in 162 BCE.
 This move on their part turned out to be naïve ; Alcimus’ Syrian alies
 massacred sixty of them in one day (1 Mac. vii, 2-20).
 Lastly, a major political change came about when Jonathan
 Maccabaeus, himself a priest but not a Zadokite, accepted in 153-152
 BCE pontifical office from Alexander Balas, a usurper of the Seleucid
 throne. Alexander was anxious for Jewish support and was not
 mistaken in thinking that an offer of the High Priesthood would be
 irresistible. For the conservatives this was an i legal seizure of power.
 But they were even more scandalized by the appointment in 140 BCE,
 fo lowing Jonathan’s execution in 143- 142 by the Syrian general
 Tryphon, of Simon Maccabee as High Priest and hereditary leader of
 the people by means of a decree passed by a Jewish national
 assembly.
From then on, until Pompey’s transformation of the independent
 Jewish state into a Roman province in 63 BCE, Judaea was ruled by a
 new dynasty of High Priests, later Priest-Kings, known as the
 Hasmonaeans after the grandfather of the Maccabees, Hasmon, or
 Asamonaeus according to Josephus (War 1, 36). During the
 intervening years, al Simon’s successors, but especialy John
 Hyrcanus I (134-104 BCE) and Alexander Jannaeus (103-76 BCE), for
 whom their political role took precedence over their office of High
 Priest, occupied one by one the Helenistic cities of Palestine and
 conquered the neighbouring territories of Idumaea in the south,
 Samaria in the centre and Ituraea in the north.
 Throughout this period of territorial expansion, the Hasmonaean
 rulers enjoyed the support of the Sadducees, one of the three religious
 parties first mentioned under Jonathan Maccabaeus (cf. Josephus,
 Antiquities X I, 171) and regular alies of the government. They were
 opposed by the Pharisees, an essentialy lay group formed from one of
 the branches of the Hasidim of the Maccabaean age. Already in the
 days of John Hyrcanus I there was Pharisaic objection to his
 usurpation of the High Priesthood, though they were wiling to
 recognize him as national leader (Antiquities X I, z 88-98), but on one
 other occasion, at least, their opposition was overcome by force.
 Accused of plotting against Alexander Jannaeus in 88 BCE in
 colusion with the Syrian Seleucid king Demetrius I Eucaerus, 800
 Pharisees were condemned by Jannaeus to die on the cross
 (Antiquities xm, 380-83; War 1, 96-8).
 After Pompey’s seizure of Jerusalem, the Hasmonaean High
 Priesthood continued for another three decades, but the political
 power formerly belonging to them passed to the Judaized Idumaean,
 Herod the Great, when he was promoted to the throne of Jerusalem by
 Rome in 37 BCE. It is to the last year or two of his reign - he died in 4
 BCE - that the Gospels of Matthew and Luke date the birth of Jesus of
 Nazareth (Matth. ii, 1; Lk. i, 5).
 After the ephemeral rule of the successor to Herod the Great, Herod
 Archelaus (4 BCE-6 CE), who was deposed by Augustus for his
 misgovernment of Jews and Samaritans alike, Galilee continued in
 semi-autonomy under the Herodian princes Antipas (4 BCE-39 CE)
and Agrippa (39-41 CE), but Judaea was placed under the direct
 administration of Roman authority. In 6 CE, Coponius, the first Roman
 prefect of Judaea, arrived to take up his duties there. This prefectorial
 regime, whose most notorious representative was Pontius Pilate (26
36 CE), lasted for thirty-five years until 41, when the emperor Claudius
 appointed Agrippa I as king. He died, however, three years later, and
 in 44 CE the government of the province once more reverted to
 Roman officials, this time with the title of procurator. Their corrupt and
 unwise handling of Jewish affairs was one of the chief causes of the
 war of 66 which led to the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 CE, and to
 the subsequent decline of the Sadducees, the extinction of the Zealots
 in Masada in 74, the disappearance of the Essenes, and the survival
 and uncontested domination of the Pharisees and their rabbinic
 successors.
 It is into this general course of events that the history of Qumran has
 to be inserted. Document by document the Scrols wil be scrutinized
 and the literary information combined, both with the findings of Qumran
 archaeology and with the incidental reports provided by Josephus. In
 the end it is hoped that the history of the Essene sect wi l begin to fal
 reliably into place.
 2 THE HISTORY OF THE ESSENES
 (a) Concealed References in the Scrolls
 The search for clues to the origins and story of the movement begins
 with the Damascus Document because it is a writing particularly rich in
 such hints. Here, the birth of the Community is said to have occurred in
 the ‘age of wrath’, 390 years after the destruction of Jerusalem by
 Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. At that time, a ‘root’ sprung ‘from
 Israel and Aaron’, i.e. a group of pious Jews, laymen and priests,
 came into being in a situation of general ungodliness. These people
 ‘groped for the way’ for twenty years, and then God sent them a
‘Teacher of Righteousness’ to guide them ‘in the way of His heart’ (1,
 5-11). The Teacher did not meet with unanimous approval within the
 congregation, and a faction described as ‘seekers of smooth things’,
 ‘removers of the bounds’ and ‘builders of the wal’, al metaphors
 seeming to point to religious laxity and infidelity, turned against him
 and his folowers. The leader of the breakaway party, though accorded
 a number of unflattering sobriquets, such as ‘Scoffer’, ‘Liar’ or ‘Spouter
 of Lies’, seems to be one and the same person. His associates erred
 in matters of ritual cleanness, justice, chastity, the dates of festivals
 and Temple worship; they were lovers of money and enemies of
 peace. In the ensuing fratricidal struggle, the Teacher and those who
 remained faithful to him went into exile in the ‘land of Damascus’ where
 they entered into a ‘new Covenant’. There, the Teacher of
 Righteousness was ‘gathered in’, meaning that he died. In the
 meantime, the wicked dominated over Jerusalem and the Temple,
 though not without experiencing God’s vengeance at the hands of the
 ‘Chief of the Kings of Greece’.
 A similar picture emerges from the Habakkuk Commentary with its
 explicit mention of desertion by disciples of the Teacher of
 Righteousness to the Liar, and also by members unfaithful to the ‘new
 Covenant’. The alusions to the protagonists of the conflict are sharper
 in this work than in the Damascus Document. We learn that the vilain,
 known in this Scrol as the ‘Wicked Priest’ as wel as the ‘Liar’ and
 ‘Spouter of Lies’, was ‘caled by the name of truth’ before he became
 Israel’s ruler and was corrupted by wealth and power (V I, 8-11) - the
 implication being that for a time he had met with the sect’s approval.
 Subsequently, however, he defiled Jerusalem and the Temple. He also
 sinned against the Teacher of Righteousness and his disciples,
 chastising him while the ‘House of Absalom’ looked silently on (v, 9
12), and confronting him in his place of exile on the sect’s Day of
 Atonement (xi, 6-8). He ‘vilified and outraged the elect of God’, ‘plotted
 to destroy the Poor’, i.e. the Community, and stole their riches. As a
 punishment, God delivered him ‘into the hand of his enemies’, who
 ‘took vengeance on his body of flesh’ (IX, 2). At the last judgement,
 predicts the Commentary, the Wicked Priest wil empty ‘the cup of
 wrath of God’. His successors, the ‘last Priests of Jerusalem’, are also
charged with amassing ‘money and wealth by plundering the peoples’,
 i.e. foreigners. But, so the commentator asserts, al their riches and
 booty wi l be snatched from them by the Kittim, the conquerors of the
 world commissioned by God to pay them their just deserts.
 Because of lacunae, one cannot be quite sure from the Habakkuk
 Commentary that the Teacher was a priest. The Commentary on
 Psalms (Ps. xxxvii, 4Q171, 173), by contrast, makes this plain.
 Interpreting verses 23-4, it reads: ‘this concerns the Priest, the
 Teacher of [Righteousness]’. It further supplies a significant detail by
 assigning to ‘the violent of the nations’, that is to say to the Gentiles as
 opposed to the Jews, the execution of judgement on the Wicked
 Priest. Another point of interest is that the enemies of the sect are
 aluded to as ‘the wicked of Ephraim and Manasseh’, i.e. as of two
 distinct factions. They appear also in the Commentary on Nahum.
 In the Messianic Anthology or Testimonia (4Q175), references
 appear in the final section, borrowed from a Joshua Apocryphon or
 Psalms of Joshua (4Q379 fr. 22 ii), to two ‘instruments of violence’
 who ruled Jerusalem. They are cursed for making the city a ‘stronghold
 of ungodliness’ and for committing ‘an abomination’ in the land. They
 are also said to have shed blood ‘like water on the ramparts of the
 daughter of Zion’. The relationship of the two tyrants to one another
 cannot be established with certainty because of the fragmentary nature
 of the manuscript. They could be father and son. On the other hand, the
 expression ‘instruments of violence’ depends on Genesis xlix, 5 where
 it describes the brother murderers, Simeon and Levi, the destroyers of
 Shechem.
 The Nahum Commentary moves on to an age folowing that of the
 Teacher of Righteousness and the Wicked Priest, as neither of them is
 mentioned. The principal character here is the ‘furious young lion’, a
 Jewish ruler of Jerusalem. He is said to have taken revenge on the
 ‘seekers of smooth things’, whom he reproached for having invited
 ‘Demetrius’ the king of Greece to Jerusalem. The attempt failed; no
 foreigner entered the city ‘from the time of Antiochus until the coming
 of the rulers of the Kittim’. The enemies of the ‘furious young lion’ were
 ‘hanged alive on the tree’, a familiar Hebrew circumlocution for
 crucifixion. As in the Commentary on Psalm xxxvii, the sobriquets
‘Ephraim’ and ‘Manasseh’ are attached to the Community’s
 opponents. ‘Ephraim’ is said to ‘walk in lies and falsehood’, but
 because of gaps in the manuscript, the description of ‘Manasseh’ is
 less clear. It seems nevertheless that this party included ‘great men’,
 ‘mighty men’ and ‘men of dignity’.
 The Nahum Commentary was the first of the Qumran Scrols to
 disclose historical names: those of two Seleucid kings, Antiochus and
 Demetrius. But their identity has sti l to be determined because nine
 monarchs in al bore the first name, and three the second. Additional
 names figure in various Cave 4 manuscripts of a liturgical calendar
 (4Q331-3): ‘Shelamzion’, the Hebrew name of Queen Salome
Alexandra, widow of Alexander Jannaeus, who reigned from 76 to 67
 BCE; ‘Hyrcanus’ and ‘John’, probably John Hyrcanus I, son of
 Alexandra and High Priest from 76 to 67 and again from 63 to 40; and
 ‘Emilius’, no doubt M. Aemilius Scaurus, the first Roman governor of
 Syria from 65 to 62 BCE, who is charged with kiling people. Note also
 that the Balakros of 4Q243 may be the Seleucid usurper Alexander
 Balas.
 A remarkable piece of prayer-poetry (4Q448) refers to ‘King
 Jonathan’ in connection with Jerusalem and diaspora Jewry. A good
 case has been made out by E. and H. Eshel (IEJ 42, 1992, 199-229)
 for identifying him with Alexander Jannaeus, but in my opinion an even
 stronger argument points towards Jonathan Maccabaeus as ‘King
 Jonathan’ (cf. JJS44, 1993, 294-300). Also, one of the proposed
 readings of line 9 of the List of False Prophets (4Q339), ‘[John son of
 Sim]on’, would provide an alusion to John Hyrcanus I. Finaly, the
 person caled Potlaos - Ptolas - Peitholaos (4Q468e) may refer to one
 of two historical figures who lived either in the middle or the end of the
 first century BCE.
 In the Commentaries on Habakkuk and Nahum, the Kittim are
 represented as instruments appointed by God to punish the ungodly
 priests of Jerusalem. The War Rule, however, testifies to a changed
 attitude towards them on the part of the sect by making the Kittim
 appear as the chief alies of Belial or Satan and the final foe to be
 subjugated by the hosts of the sons of Light. The Rule of War (4Q285),
 although very fragmentary, appears to point in the same direction.
Several Qumran Hymns reflect the career and sentiments of a
 teacher, possibly of the Teacher of Righteousness himself. According
 to them, he was opposed by ‘interpreters of error’, ‘traitors’,
 ‘deceivers’, and ‘those who seek smooth things’, al of whom were
 formerly his ‘friends’ and ‘members of [his] Covenant’, bearers of the
 ‘yoke of [his] testimony’. In one of them, the reference to a ‘devilish
 scheme’ is reminiscent of the alusion in the Habakkuk Commentary to
 the visit of the Wicked Priest to the Community’s place of exile in order
 to cause them ‘to stumble’:
 Teachers of lies [have smoothed] Thy people [with words],
 and [false prophets] have led them astray .
 They have banished me from my land like a bird from its nest .
 And they, teachers of lies and seers of falsehood,
 have schemed against me a devilish scheme,
 to exchange the Law engraved on my heart by Thee
 for the smooth things (which they speak) to Thy people.
 And they withhold from the thirsty the drink of Knowledge,
 and assuage their thirst with vinegar,
 that they may gaze on their straying,
 on their fo ly concerning their feast-days,
 on their fa l into the snares.
 (IQH XI [formerly IV], 7-12)
 Another Hymn appears to hint at the Teacher’s withdrawal from society
 and to announce with confidence his eventual glorious justification:
 For Thou, O God, hast sheltered me
 from the children of men,
 and hast hidden Thy Law [within me]
 against the time when Thou shouldst reveal
 Thy salvation to me.
 (IQH X I [formerly V], 11-12)
 Some scholars consider these poems autobiographical, i.e. written by
 the Teacher, but this is mere speculation.
 It would be unrealistic, taking into account the vagueness of al these
 statements, the cryptic nature of the symbolism and the entire lack of
 any systematic exposition of the sect’s history, to expect every detail to
be identified. We can, however, attempt to define the chronological
 framework of the historical references and thus be in a position to
 place at least some of the key events and principal personalities within
 the context of Jewish history as we know it.
 (b) The Chronological Framework
 The chronological setting of Qumran history may be reconstructed from
 archaeological and literary evidence. The excavations of 1951-6 date
 the beginning, the terminus a quo, of the sectarian establishment to
 150-140 BCE and its end, the terminus ad quem, to the middle of the
 first war against Rome, 68 CE.
 70 The literary alusions, particularly the
 identifiable historical names, confirm this general finding. It goes
 without saying, however, that the initial phases of the Community’s
 existence must have preceded by some years or decades the actual
 establishment of the sect at Qumran. The first task therefore is to
 examine the Scrols for indications of its origins. The Nahum
 Commentary implies that a king by the name of Antiochus was alive at
 the beginning of the period with which the documents are concerned.
 This Antiochus, although one among several so caled, can only have
 been Antiochus IV Epiphanes, notorious for his looting of Jerusalem
 and the profanation of the Temple in 169-168 BCE.
 More significant as a chronological pointer is the dating, in the
 Damascus Document, of the sect’s beginnings to the ‘age of wrath’,
 390 years after the conquest of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar in 586
 BCE. This should bring us to 196 BCE but, as is wel known, Jewish
 historians are not very reliable in their time-reckoning for the post-exilic
 era. They do not seem to have had a clear idea of the length of the
 Persian domination, and they were in addition not free of the
 theological influence of the Book of Daniel, where a period of seventy
 weeks of years, i.e. 490 years, is given as separating the epoch of
 Nebuchadnezzar from that of the Messiah. As it happens, if to this
 figure of 390 years is added, firstly twenty (during which the ancestors
 of the Community ‘groped’ for their way until the entry on the scene of
the Teacher of Righteousness), then another forty (the time span
 between the death of the Teacher and the dawn of the messianic
 epoch), the total stretch of years arrived at is 450. And if to this total is
 added the duration of the Teacher’s ministry of, say, forty years - a
 customary round figure—the final result is the classic seventy times
 seven years.
 Yet even if the literal figure of 390 is rejected, there are stil
 compeling reasons for placing the ‘age of wrath’ in the opening
 decades of the second pre-Christian century. Only the Helenistic crisis
 which occurred at that time, and which is recaled in various Jewish
 literary sources from the last two centuries BCE, provides a fitting
 context for the historical a lusions made in the sectarian writings (cf.
 Daniel ix-xi; Enoch xc, 6-7; Jubilees XX I, 14-19; Testament of Levi
 XVI; Assumption of Moses IV-V). Also, it is the Hasidim of the pre
Maccabaean and early Maccabaean era who best correspond to the
 earlier but unorganized group as it is described there (cf. pp. 51-2).
 As for the terminus ad quem of Qumran history, as this is linked to
 the appearance of the Kittim, we have to determine who these people
 were. In its primitive sense, the word ‘Kittim’ described the inhabitants
 of Kition, a Phoenician colony in Cyprus. Later the name tended to be
 applied indiscriminately to those living in ‘al islands and most
 maritime countries’ (Josephus, Antiquities 1, 128). But from the
 second century BCE, Jewish writers also used ‘Kittim’ more precisely
 to denote the greatest world power of the day. In Maccabees (i, 1; viii,
 5) they are Greeks; Alexander the Great and Perseus are caled kings
 of the ‘Kittim’. In Daniel xi, 30 on the other hand, the ‘Kittim’ are
 Romans; it was the ambassador of the Roman senate, Poppilius
 Laenas, brought to Alexandria by ‘ships of Kittim’, i.e. the Roman fleet,
 who instructed the ‘king of the North’, the Seleucid monarch Antiochus
 Epiphanes, to withdraw at once from Egypt. The term ‘Romans’ is
 substituted for ‘Kittim’ already in the old Greek or Septuagint version of
 Daniel xi, 30. None of these texts is critical of the ‘Kittim’. They are
 seen as the ruling force of the time, but not as hostile to Israel. In fact,
 in Daniel they humiliate the enemy of the Jews. It is not ti l a later stage,
 especialy after 70 CE, that they come to symbolize oppression and
 tyranny.
In the Habakkuk Commentary, the portrait of the Kittim is neutral, as
 in Maccabees and Daniel. (In the Damascus Document they play no
 part; the alien adversary there is the ‘Chief of the Kings of Greece’.)
 Feared and admired by al, they are seen to be on the point of
 defeating the ‘last Priests of Jerusalem’ and confiscating their wealth,
 as they have done to many others before. Such a representation of a
 victorious and advancing might would hardly apply to the Greek
 Seleucids of Syria, who by the second half of the second century BCE
 were in grave decline. But it does correspond to the Romans, whose
 thrust to the east in the first century BCE resulted in their triumphs over
 Pontus, Armenia and Seleucid Syria, and finaly, with the arrival of
 Pompey in Jerusalem in 63 BCE, in the transformation of the
 Hasmonaean state into Judaea, a province of the Roman republic.
 Since the identification of the ‘Kittim’ as Romans is nowadays
 generaly accepted, it wi l suffice to cite a single, but very striking,
 feature in the Habakkuk Commentary to support it. Interpreting Hab. 1,
 14-16 as referring to the ‘Kittim’, the commentator writes: ‘This means
 that they sacrifice to their standards and worship their weapons of war’
 (IQpHab. VI, 3-5). Now this custom of worshipping the signa was a
 characteristic of the religion of the Roman armies both in republican
 and in imperial times, as Josephus testifies in his report of the capture
 of the Temple of Jerusalem by the legionaries of Titus in 70.
 The Romans, now that the rebels had fled to the city, and the Sanctuary
 itself and al around it were in flames, carried their standards into the
 Temple court, and seting them up opposite the eastern gate, there
 sacrificed to them.
 (War VI, 3I6)
 It is also worth noting that the ‘Kittim’ of the War Scrol, the final
 opponents of the eschatological Israel, are subject to a king or
 emperor (melekh). Previously, in the Commentaries of Habakkuk and
 Nahum, they are said to have been governed by rulers (moshelim). In
 sum, therefore, the time-limits of the sect’s history appear to be at one
 extreme the beginning of the second century BCE, and at the other
 some moment during the Roman imperial epoch, i.e. after 27 BCE.
And this latter date is determined by Qumran archaeology as
 coinciding with the first Jewish war, and even more precisely with the
 arrival of the armies of Vespasian and Titus in the neighbourhood of
 the Dead Sea in June 68 CE.
(c) Decipherment of Particular Allusions
 The ‘age of wrath’ having been identified as that of the Helenistic
 crisis of the beginning of the second century BCE, the ‘root’ as the
 Hasidim of the pre-Maccabaean age, and the ‘Kittim’ as the Romans,
 the next major problem is to discover who was, or were, the principal
 Jewish enemy or enemies of the sect at the time of the ministry of the
 Teacher of Righteousness variously known as the ‘Scoffer’, the ‘Liar’ ,
 the ‘Spouter of Lies’ and the ‘Wicked Priest’ (IQpHab, 4QPsa, CD).
 It is not unreasonable to conclude that al these insults are directed
 at the same individual. It would appear from the Damascus Document
 that the ‘Scoffer’ and the ‘Liar’ (cf. also 4QpPsa [XXXVI]) were one
 and the same (‘when the Scoffer arose who shed over Israel the
 waters of lies’, CD 1, 14). And we read of the ‘Wicked Priest’ that he
 was caled ‘by the name of truth’ (1QpHab V I, 8-9) at the outset of his
 career, the inference being that later he changed into a ‘Liar’.
 Another basic premise must be that the person intended by the
 fragments of information contained in the Scrols became the head, the
 national leader, of the Jewish people. For although biblical names are
 often used symbolicaly, including that of ‘Israel’, the actions attributed
 to the ‘Wicked Priest’ make little sense if the person in question did
 not exercise both pontifical and secular power. He ‘ruled over Israel’.
 He ‘robbed... the riches of the men of violence who rebeled against
 God’, probably Jewish apostates, as wel as ‘the wealth of the
 peoples’, i.e. the Gentiles. He built ‘his city of vanity with blood’,
 committed ‘abominable deeds in Jerusalem and defiled the Temple of
 God’ (1QpHab V I). Taken separately, these observations might be
 understood alegoricaly, but considered together, they constitute a
 strong argument for recognizing the ‘Wicked Priest’ as a ruling High
 Priest in Jerusalem.
 The ‘Wicked Priest’, then, was a Pontiff who enjoyed good repute
 before he assumed office. He was victorious over his adversaries at
 home and abroad. He rebuilt Jerusalem (cf. 1QpHab V I, 8-11;
4Q448). And he was eventualy captured and put to death by a foreign
 rival.
 The chronological guidelines established in the preceding section
 locate the period in which this individual flourished between the reign
 of Antiochus Epiphanes (175-164 BCE) and the probable date of the
 foundation at Qumran (150-140 BCE). During that time, five men held
 the office of High Priest. Three of them were pro-Greek: Jason,
 Menelaus and Alcimus. The remaining two were the Maccabee
 brothers, Jonathan and Simon. A l the Helenizers can be eliminated as
 candidates for the role of ‘Wicked Priest’ since none can be said to
 have enjoyed anything like good repute at the beginning of their
 ministry. Jason and Alcimus fail also because neither was ki led by an
 enemy, as implied in 1QpHab V I-IX. Jason died in exile (2 Mac. v, 7
9) and Alcimus in office (1 Mac. ix, 54-6). The Maccabee brothers, by
 contrast, meet al the conditions. The careers of both men fal easily
 into two stages, marked, in the case of Jonathan, by his acceptance of
 the High Priesthood from Alexander Balas, and in the case of Simon
 by his wi lingness to become a hereditary High Priest. Both were also
 ‘instruments of violence’ and both died by violence. Jonathan is
 nevertheless to be chosen rather than Simon because he alone
 suffered the vengeance of the ‘Chief of the Kings of Greece’ and died
 at the hands of the ‘violent of the nations’, whereas Simon was
 murdered by his son-in-law (i Mac. xvi, 14-16). A galant defender of
 Jewish religion and independence, Jonathan succeeded the heroic
 Judas in 161 BCE when the latter fel in battle. But he qualified for the
 epithet ‘Wicked Priest’ when he accepted in 153-152 BCE from
 Alexander Balas, a heathen usurper of the Seleucid throne who had no
 right to grant them, the pontifical vestments which Jonathan was not
 entitled to wear. Captured later by a former general of Alexander
 Balas, Tryphon, he was kiled by him at Bascama in Transjordan (1
 Mac. xiii, 23).
 Concerning the identity of the ‘last Priests of Jerusalem’, the
 passion for conquest, wealth and plunder for which they are
 reproached points to the Hasmonaean priestly rulers, from Simon’s
 son, John Hyrcanus I (134-104 BCE), to Judas Aristobulus I (67-63
 BCE). There can in particular be little doubt that the ‘furious young lion’,
designated also as ‘the last Priest’ in a badly damaged Commentary
 on Hosea (4Q167 11 2-3), was one of them, namely Alexander
 Jannaeus. The application to him of the words of Nahum, ‘who chokes
 prey for its lionesses’, and the report that the ‘young lion’ executed the
 ‘seekers of smooth things’ by ‘hanging men alive’, accord perfectly
 with the known story that Jannaeus crucified 800 Pharisees whilst
 feasting with his concubines (cf. above, p. 53).
 From this it folows that ‘Ephraim’, equated in the Commentary on
 Nahum with the ‘seekers of smooth things’, symbolizes the Pharisees,
 and that if so, ‘Manasseh’ and his dignitaries must refer to the
 Sadducees. In other words, the political and doctrinal opponents of the
 Essene community, though itself with proto-Sadducaean links on
 account of its priestly leadership as insinuated by MMT, were the
 Sadducees and the Pharisees.
 This division of Jewish society into three opposing groups
 corresponds to the conformation described by Josephus as existing
 from the time of Jonathan Maccabaeus (Antiquities X I, 171), but the
 new insight provided by the Scrols suggests that the united resistance
 to Helenism first fel apart when the Maccabees, and more precisely
 Jonathan, refused to acknowledge the spiritual leadership of the
 Teacher of Righteousness, the priestly head of the Hasidim. From then
 on, the sect saw its defectors as ‘Ephraim’ and ‘Manasseh’, these
 being the names of the sons of Joseph, associated in biblical history
 with the apostate Northern kingdom, and referred to itself as the
 ‘House of Judah’, the faithful South.
 Unfortunately, on the most vital topic of a l, the question of the identity
 of the Teacher of Righteousness, we can be nothing like as clear. If the
 ‘Wicked Priest’ was Jonathan Maccabaeus, the Teacher would, of
 course, have been one of his contemporaries. Yet al we know of him
 is that he was a priest (1QpHab 11, 8; 4QpPs [XXXVI ii, 15=4Q171]),
 no doubt of Zadokite affiliation, though obviously opposed to Onias IV
 since he did not folow him to Egypt and to his unlawful Temple in
 Leontopolis.
 71 He founded or re-founded the Community. He
 transmitted to them his own distinctive interpretation of the Prophets
 and, if we can rely at least indirectly on the Hymns, of the laws relating
 to the celebration of festivals. The ‘Liar’ and his sympathizers in the
congregation of the Hasidim disagreed with him, and after a violent
 confrontation between the two factions in which the ‘Liar’ gained the
 upper hand, the Teacher and his remaining folowers fled to a place of
 refuge caled ‘the land of Damascus’: it has been suggested that this is
 a cryptic designation of Babylonia, the original birthplace of the group,
 or else that ‘Damascus’ is a symbolical name for Qumran. The ‘House
 of Absalom’ gave the Teacher of Righteousness no help against the
 ‘Liar’, writes the Habakkuk commentator (1QpHab v, 9-12), the
 implication being that this was support on which he might have relied. If
 ‘Absalom’ is also a symbol, it doubtless recals the rebelion of
 Absalom against his father David, and thus points to the perfidy of a
 close relation or intimate friend of the Teacher. On the other hand,
 since the ‘House of Absalom’ is accused not of an actual attack but
 simply of remaining silent during the Teacher’s ‘chastisement’, this
 alegorical solution may not be convincing. The alusion may then be a
 straightforward one. A certain Absalom was an ambassador of Judas
 Maccabaeus (2 Mac. xi, 17), and his son Mattathias was one of
 Jonathan’s galant officers (1 Mac. xi, 70). Another of his sons,
 Jonathan, commanded Simon’s army which captured Joppa (1 Mac.
 xiii, 11).
 Meanwhile, even in his ‘place of exile’ the Teacher continued to be
 harassed and persecuted by the Wicked Priest. In this connection, the
 most important and painful episode appears to have been the Priest’s
 pursuit of the Teacher to his settlement with the purpose of pouring on
 him ‘his venomous fury’. Appearing before the sectaries on ‘their
 Sabbath of repose’, at the ‘time appointed for rest, for the Day of
 Atonement’, his intention was to cause them ‘to stumble on the Day of
 Fasting’. It is impossible to say, from the evidence so far available,
 precisely what happened on this portentous occasion, or whether it
 was then or later that the Wicked Priest ‘laid hands’ on the Teacher
 ‘that he might put him to death’. The wording is equivocal. For
 example, the verb in 1QpHab xi, 5, 7, translated ‘to confuse’, can also
 mean ‘to swalow up’, and some scholars have chosen to understand
 that the Teacher was ki led by the Wicked Priest at the time of the visit.
 On the other hand, we find recounted in the imperfect tense (which can
 be rendered into English as either the future or the present tense): ‘The
wicked of Ephraim and Manasseh ... seek/wi l seek to lay hands on the
 Priest and the men of his Council... But God redeems/wil redeem
 them from out of their hand’ (4QpPsa [XXXVI, I, I7-I9=4QI7I]). In other
 words, we neither know who the founder of the Essenes was, nor how,
 nor where, nor when he died. Only writers upholding the most unlikely
 Christian identification of the Community claim to be better informed,
 but disagree among themselves. J. L. Teicher thought the Teacher
 was Jesus. For Barbara Thiering Jesus was the Wicked Priest, John
 the Baptist the Teacher; R. H. Eisenman rejects both and prefers
 James the Just, ‘the brother of the Lord’, as the Teacher of
 Righteousness. Only the sensation-seeking media have been taken in
 by their theories.
 It has been suggested that this inability to identify the Teacher of
 Righteousness in the context of the Maccabaean period undermines
 the credibility of the reconstruction as a whole. Is it conceivable, it is
 asked, that a figure of the stature of the Teacher should have left no
 trace in the literature relating to that time? The answer to this objection
 is that such writings are to al intents and purposes restricted to the
 Books of the Maccabees, sources politicaly biased in favour of their
 heroes and virtualy oblivious of the very existence of opposition
 movements. Josephus himself relies largely on 1 Maccabees and
 cannot therefore be regarded as an independent witness. But even
 were this not so, and he had additional material at his disposition, his
 silence vis-à-vis the Teacher of Righteousness would sti l not cal for
 particular comment since he also makes no mention of the founder of
 the Pharisees. And incidentaly, not a few historians hold that he has
 nothing to say either of Jesus of Nazareth. The so-caled Testimonium
 Flavianum (Antiquities XV I, 63-4), they maintain, is a Christian
 interpolation into the genuine text of Antiquities (though others, myself
 included, think that part of the text is authentic). Be this as it may, not a
 word is breathed by him about Hilel, the greatest of the Pharisee
 masters, or about Yohanan ben Zakkai, who reorganized Judaism
 after the destruction of the Temple, although both of these men lived in
 Josephus’ own century and Yohanan was definitely his contemporary.
 Admittedly, the various fragments of information gleaned from the
 Dead Sea Scrols result in an unavoidably patchy story, but it is
fundamentaly sound, and the continuing anonymity of the Teacher
 does nothing to impair it. For the present synthesis to be complete it
 remains now to turn to Josephus for his occasional historical
 references to individual Essenes and to Essenism.
 To begin with it should be pointed out that four members of the
 Community are actualy mentioned by the Jewish historian, three of
 them associated with prophecy, one of the distinctive interests of the
 Teacher of Righteousness himself. The first, caled Judas, is
 encountered in Jerusalem surrounded by a group of pupils taking
 instruction in ‘forete ling the future’, which probably means how to
 identify prophetic pointers to future events. Josephus writes of him that
 he had ‘never been known to speak falsely in his prophecies’, and that
 he predicted the death of Antigonus, the brother of Aristobulus I (104
103 BCE) (Antiquities X I, 311-13). A second Essene prophet,
 Menahem, apparently foretold that Herod would rule over the Jews (xv,
 373-8). Herod showed his gratitude to him by dispensing the Essenes,
 who were opposed to al oaths except their own oath of the Covenant,
 from taking the vow of loyalty imposed on al his Jewish subjects. A
 third Essene named Simon interpreted a dream of Archelaus,
 ethnarch of Judaea (4 BCE-6 CE), in 4 BCE to mean that his rule
 would last for ten years (XV I, 345-8). John the Essene, the last sectary
 to be referred to by Josephus, was not a prophet, but the commander
 or strategos of the district of Thamna in north-western Judaea, and of
 the cities of Lydda (Lod), Joppa (Jaffa) and Emmaus at the beginning
 of the first revolution (War 11, 567). A man of ‘first-rate prowess and
 ability’, he fe l in battle at Ascalon ( I, I, I9).
 72
 Fina ly, Josephus depicts in vivid language the bravery of the
 Essenes subjected to torture by the Romans.
 The war with the Romans tried their souls through and through by every
 variety of test. Racked and twisted, burned and broken, and made to pass
 through every instrument of torture in order to induce them to blaspheme
 their lawgiver or to eat some forbidden thing, they refused to yield to either
 demand, nor ever once did they cringe to their persecutors or shed a tear.
 Smiling in their agonies and mildly deriding their tormentors, they
 cheerfu ly resigned their souls, confident that they would receive them
 back again.
 (War 11, 152-3)
Since it would appear from this passage that the Romans were
 persecuting not individuals, but a group, it is tempting, bearing in mind
 the archaeologists’ claim that the Qumran settlement was destroyed by
 the Romans, to associate it with the story of Essenes captured by the
 Dead Sea. If such a surmise is correct, the sect’s disappearance from
 history may wel have been brought about in the lethal blow suffered by
 its central establishment during the fateful summer of 68 CE. The fact
 that no attempt was made to recover nearly 800 manuscripts from the
 caves confirms, it would seem, such a reconstruction of the end of
 Qumran and, with the annihilation of its central establishment, of the
 whole Essene movement.
IV The Religious Ideas of the Community
 The first essays in the 1950s on the religious outlook of the Qumran
 sect al suffered from a serious defect in that scholars in those days
 tended to envisage the Scrols as self-contained and entitled to
 independent treatment. Today, with the hindsight of five decades of
 research and with the entire corpus to hand, it is easier to conceive of
 the theology of the Community as part of the general doctrinal evolution
 of ancient Judaism.
 Nevertheless, it is no simple task to folow that development itself,
 the reason being that the systematic exposition of beliefs and customs
 is not a traditional Jewish discipline. In a sense, the Instruction on the
 Two Spirits, incorporated in the Community Rule, aluded to earlier (p.
 28), is an exception, forming the one and only doctrinal treatise among
 ancient Hebrew writings. The theology of Judaism, biblical, inter
Testamental, medieval or modern, when written by contemporary
 Jewish authors, is often modeled consciously or unconsciously on
 Christian dogmatic structures: God, creation, human destiny,
 messianic redemption, judgement, resurrection, heaven and hel. Such
 structures may and sometimes do distort the religious concepts of
 Judaism. For example, the interest of the Church in the messianic role
 of Jesus is apt to assign a greater importance to Messianism in
 Jewish religion than the historical evidence justifies, and Paul’s
 hostility to the ‘legalism’ of Israel obscures the Jewish recognition of
 the humble realities of everyday life prescribed by the Law as no mere
 ‘works’ but as a path to holiness walked in obedience to God’s
 commandments.
 1 THE COVENANT
 Since the key to any understanding of Judaism must be the notion of
 the Covenant, it may safely be taken as an introduction to Essene
religious thought. The history of mankind and of the Jewish people has
 seen a series of such covenants. God undertook never to destroy
 mankind again by a flood; in exchange, Noah and his descendants
 were required to abstain from shedding human blood and, on the ritual
 level, from eating animal ‘flesh with the life, which is the blood, sti l in it’
 (Gen. ix, 1-17). To Abraham, who was childless and landless, God
 offered posterity and a country, provided he led a perfect life and
 marked his body and that of al his male progeny with a visible
 reminder of the Covenant between himself and heaven, circumcision
 (Gen. xvii, 1-14). Again, in the days of Moses the Israelites were
 declared ‘a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation’ (Exod. xix, 5), God’s
 special possession, on condition that they obeyed the Torah, the
 divine Teaching of the religious, moral, social and ritual precepts
 recorded in the Pentateuch from Exodus xx and repeated in the
 farewel discourse addressed by Moses to his people in the Book of
 Deuteronomy. After the conquest of Canaan and the distribution of the
 land to the tribes, the fulfilment of God’s promise to Abraham, the
 Covenant was renewed by Joshua and the Israelites reasserted their
 commitment to their heavenly Helper (Jos. xxiv). From then on, the
 biblical story is one of continuous unfaithfulness to the Covenant. But
 God was not to be thwarted by human unworthiness and ingratitude,
 and for the sake of the handful of just men appearing in every
 generation he alowed the validity of the Covenant to endure. Though
 he punished the sinful and the rebelious, he spared the ‘remnant’
 because of their fidelity to it. From time to time, saintly leaders of the
 Jewish people, King David and King Josiah before the Babylonian
 exile (2 Sam. vii; 2 Kings xxiii, 1-3) and Ezra the Priest after the return
 from Mesopotamia (Neh. viii-x), persuaded them to remember their
 Covenant with God with solemn vows of repentance and national
 rededication; but the promises were usualy short-lived. This would no
 doubt account for the development of an idea in the sixth century BCE
 of a ‘new Covenant’ founded not so much on undertakings entered into
 by the community as on the inner transformation of every individual
 Jew for whom the wil of God was to become, as it were, second
 nature.
The time is coming . when I wi l make a new Covenant with Israel . This
 is the new Covenant which I wi l make with Israel in those days . I wi l set
 my law within them and write it on their hearts .
 (Jer. xxxi, 31-3; Isa. liv, 13)
 It was this same Covenant ideology that served as the foundation of
 the Qumran Community’s basic beliefs. The Essenes not only
 considered themselves to be the ‘remnant’ of their time, but the
 ‘remnant’ of al time, the final ‘remnant’. In the ‘age of wrath’, while God
 was making ready to annihilate the wicked, their founders had
 repented. They had become the ‘Converts of Israel’ (cf. CD IV, 2;
 4Q266 fr. 5 i). As a reward for their conversion, the Teacher of
 Righteousness had been sent to establish for them a ‘new Covenant’,
 which was to be the sole valid form of the eternal aliance between
 God and Israel. Consequently, their paramount aim was to pledge
 themselves to observe its precepts with absolute faithfulness.
 Convinced that they belonged to a Community which alone interpreted
 the Holy Scriptures correctly, theirs was ‘the last interpretation of the
 Law’ (4Q266 fr. 11; 270 fr. 7 ii), and they devoted their exile in the
 wilderness to the study of the Bible. Their intention was to do
 according to al that had been ‘revealed from age to age, and as the
 Prophets had revealed by His Holy Spirit’ (1QS V I, 14-16; cf. 4Q265
 fr. 7 ii).
 Without an authentic interpretation it was not possible properly to
 understand the Torah. Al the Jews of the inter-Testamental era, the
 Essenes as wel as their rivals, agreed that true piety entails
 obedience to the Law, but although its guidance reaches into so many
 corners of life - into business and prayer, law court and kitchen,
 marriage-bed and Temple - the 613 positive and negative
 commandments of which it consists stil do not provide for al the
 problems encountered, especialy those which arose in the centuries
 fo lowing the formulation of biblical legislation. To give but one
 example, the diaspora situation was not envisaged by the jurists of an
 autonomous Jewish society.
 Torah interpretation was entrusted to the priests and Levites during
 the first two or three centuries fo lowing the Babylonian exile. Ezra and
his coleagues, the ancient scribes of Israel, ‘read from the book of the
 Law... made its sense plain and gave instruction in what was read’. In
 this passage from the Book of Nehemiah viii, 8, Jewish tradition
 acknowledges the institution of a regular paraphrase of Scripture
 known as Targum, or translation into the vernacular of the members of
 the congregation. When the parties of the Pharisees, Sadducees,
 Essenes, etc., came into being with their different convictions, they
 justified them by interpretations suited to their needs.
 A classic example of idiosyncratic Bible interpretation in the Scrols
 concerns a law on marriage. Since no directly relevant ruling is given in
 the Pentateuch on whether a niece may marry her uncle, Pharisaic and
 rabbinic Judaism understands this scriptural silence to mean that such
 a union is licit. When the Bible wishes to declare a degree of kinship
 unlawful, it does so: thus we read apropos of marriage between
 nephew and aunt, ‘You shal not approach your mother’s sister’ (Lev.
 xviii, 13). Thus a tradition surviving in the Babylonian Talmud is able to
 go so far as even to praise marriage with a ‘sister’s daughter’ and to
 proclaim it as a particularly saintly and generous act comparable to the
 loving-kindness shown to the poor and needy (Yebamoth 62b). The
 Qumran Essenes did not adopt this attitude at al. On the contrary, they
 regarded an uncle-niece union as straightforward ‘fornication’.
 Interpreted correctly, they maintained, the Leviticus precept signifies
 the very opposite of the meaning accepted by their opponents; the
 truth is that whatever applies to men in this respect applies also to
 women.
 Moses said, You shal not approach your mother’s sister (i.e. your aunt);
 she is your mother’s near kin (Lev. xv i, 13). But although the laws against
 incest are wri ten for men, they also apply to women. When, therefore, a
 brother’s daughter uncovers the nakedness of her father’s brother, she is
 (also his) near kin.
 (CD v, 8-11)
 The Temple Scrol proclaims clearly this prohibition in proper legal
 terms:
A man shal not take the daughter of his brother or the daughter of his
 sister for this is abominable.
 (11QT LXVI, 16-17)
 Again, according to the strict views of the sectaries, fidelity to the
 Covenant demanded not only obedience to the Law, to al that God
 has ‘commanded by the hand of Moses’, but also adherence to the
 teaching of ‘al His servants, the Prophets’ (1QS 1, 2-3). Although not
 expressly stated, this special attention to the Prophets implies, firstly,
 that the Essenes subscribed to the principle incorporated into the
 opening paragraph of the Sayings of the Fathers in the Mishnah that
 the Prophets served as an essential link in the transmission of the Law
 from Moses to the rabbis.
 Moses received the Torah from (God on) Sinai and passed it on to
 Joshua; Joshua to the Elders (= Judges); the Elders to the Prophets; and
 the Prophets passed it on to the members of the Great Assembly (= the
 leaders of Israel in the post-exilic age).
 (Aboth 1, 1)
 The second inference to be drawn is that the sect believed the
 Prophets to be not only teachers of morality, but also guides in the
 domain of the final eschatological realities. But as in the case of the
 Law, their writings were considered to contain pitfals for the ignorant
 and the misinformed, and only the Community’s sages knew how to
 expound them correctly. Properly understood, the Books of Isaiah,
 Hosea and the rest indicate the right path to be folowed in the terrible
 cataclysms of the last days. A simple reading can convey only their
 superficial meaning, but not their profounder significance. The Book of
 Daniel sets the biblical example here when it announces that
 Jeremiah’s prediction that the Babylonian domination would last for
 seventy years is not to be taken literaly; the real and final message is
 that seventy times seven years would separate Nebuchadnezzar from
 the coming of the Messiah (Dan. ix, 21-4). But the Qumran sectaries
 went even further than Daniel. They argued that it is quite impossible to
 discover the meaning without an inspired interpreter because the
Prophets themselves were ignorant of the ful import of what they
 wrote. Habakkuk, for instance, was commanded to recount the history
 of the ‘final generation’, but he did so without having any clear idea of
 how far ahead the eschatological age lay. God ‘did not make known to
 him when time would come to an end’. Knowledge of the authentic
 teaching of the Prophets was the supreme talent of the Teacher of
 Righteousness. The surviving Bible commentaries are almost al
 concerned with predictions concerning the ultimate destiny of the
 righteous and the wicked, the tribulations and final triumph of the
 ‘House of Judah’ and the concomitant annihilation of those who had
 rebeled against God. But in addition to this general evidence of the
 subject-matter, the Scro ls directly impute to the Teacher a particular
 God-given insight into the hidden significance of prophecy. He was
 ‘the Teacher of Righteousness to whom God made known al the
 mysteries... of His servants the Prophets’ (1QpHab V I, 1-5). He was
 ‘the Priest [in whose heart] God set [understanding] that he might
 interpret a l the words of His servants the Prophets, through whom He
 foretold a l that would happen to His people’ (1QpHab 11, 8-10). He
 was the Teacher who ‘made known to the latter generations that which
 God had done to the latter generation, the congregation of traitors, to
 those who departed from the way’ (CD 1, 12-13). The Teacher’s
 interpretation alone, propagated by his disciples, offered true
 enlightenment and guidance.
 Supported in this way by the infalible teaching of the Community, the
 sectary believed himself to be living in the true city of God, the city of
 the Covenant built on the Law and the Prophets (cf. CD VI, 13-18).
 Again and again, the architectural metaphors used in the Scrols
 suggest security and protection. The sect is a ‘House of Holiness’, a
 ‘House of Perfection and Truth’ (IQS V I, 5, 9), a ‘House of the Law’
 (CD XIX (B2), 10, 13); it is a ‘sure House’ (CD I, 19) constructed on
 solid foundations. Indeed the language used is reminiscent of Isaiah
 xxviii, 16, and of Jesus’ simile about the Church built not on sand but
 on rock (Matth. vii, 24-7; xvi, 18):
 But I shal be as one who enters a fortified city,
 as one who seeks refuge behind a high wal .
I wi l [lean on] Thy truth, O my God.
 For Thou wilt set the foundation on rock
 and the framework by the measuring-cord of justice;
 and the tried stones [Thou wilt lay]
 by the plumb-line [of truth],
 to [build] a mighty [wa l] which sha l not sway;
 and no man entering there shal stagger.
 (1QH XIV [formerly VI], 24-7)
 Fortified by his membership of the brotherhood, the sectary could even
 carry his notions of solidity and firmness over into his own self so that
 he too became a ‘strong tower’:
 Thou hast strengthened me
 before the batles of wickedness .
 Thou hast made me like a strong tower, a high wal,
 and hast established my edifice upon rock;
 eternal foundations
 serve for my ground,
 and al my ramparts are a tried wal
 which shal not sway.
 (1QH xv [formerly V I], 7-9)
 2 ELECTION AND HOLY LIFE IN THE
 COMMUNITY OF THE COVENANT
 In the ideology of the Old Testament, to be a member of the chosen
 people is synonymous with being party to the Covenant. Israel wi lingly
 accepts the yoke of the Law given on Sinai, and God in his turn
 acknowledges her as His ‘special possession’ (Exod. xix, 5):
 For you are a people holy to the Lord your God; the Lord your God has
 chosen you to be a people for His own possession, out of al the peoples
 that are on the face of the earth . You shal therefore be careful to do the
 commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances which I command
 you this day.
 (Deut. v i, 6, 11)
Theoretica ly, there is no distinction between election de jure and
 election de facto: every Jew is chosen. But already in biblical times a
 deep gulf is in fact seen to divide righteous observers of the Covenant
 from the wicked of Israel. Though not deprived of their birthright, the
 unfaithful are viewed as burdened with guilt and as such excluded,
 provisiona ly at least, from the congregation of the children of God. The
 fuly developed concept of election is summarized in the Palestinian
 Talmud by the third-century CE Galilean Rabbi Lazar. Expounding the
 words of Deuteronomy quoted above, he comments:
 When the Israelites do the wi l of the Holy One, blessed be He, they are
 caled sons; but when they do not do His wi l, they are not caled sons.
 (Kiddushin 61c)
 Inevitably, for the Qumran Essenes such a notion of Covenant
 membership was far too elastic. Consistent with their approach to
 legal matters, their attitude in regard to the Covenant was that only the
 initiates of their own ‘new Covenant’ were to be reckoned among
 God’s elect and, as such, united already on earth with the angels of
 heaven.
 God has given them to His chosen ones
 and has caused them to inherit
 the lot of the Holy Ones.
 He has joined their assembly
 to the Sons of Heaven,
 to be a Council of the Community,
 a foundation of the Building of Holiness,
 an eternal Plantation throughout a l ages to come.
 (1QS XI, 7-9)
 They insisted, moreover, on the individual election of each sectary. The
 ordinary Jew envisaged entry into the congregation of the chosen
 primarily through birth, and secondly through the symbolical initiation of
 an eight-day-old male infant submitted to circumcision. An Essene
 became a member of either branch of his sect by virtue of the
deliberate and personal adult commitment of himself. For this reason,
 as wil be remembered, even children born to married members and
 brought up in their schools had to wait until their twentieth birthday
 before they were alowed to make their solemn vows of entry into the
 Covenant. Also, believing in divine foreknowledge, they considered
 their adherence to the ‘lot of God’ as the effect of grace, as having
 been planned for each of them in heaven from al eternity. They, the
 elect, were guided by the spirit of truth in the ways of light, while the
 unprivileged, Jew and Gentile alike, were doomed to wander along
 paths of darkness. The section of the Community Rule known as the
 Instruction on the Two Spirits gives a fascinating description of these
 two human groups, the chosen and the unchosen.
 The Master shal instruct al the sons of light and shal teach them the
 nature of al the children of men according to the kind of spirit which
 they possess ...
 From the God of Knowledge comes al that is and shal be. Before
 ever they existed He established their whole design, and when, as
 ordained for them, they come into being, it is in accord with His
 glorious design that they accomplish their task without change ...
 He has created man to govern the world, and has appointed for him
 two spirits in which to walk until the time of His visitation: the spirits of
 truth and injustice. Those born of truth spring from a fountain of light,
 but those born of injustice spring from a source of darkness. Al the
 children of righteousness are ruled by the Prince of Light and walk in
 the ways of light, but al the children of injustice are ruled by the Angel
 of Darkness and walk in the ways of darkness. The Angel of Darkness
 leads al the children of righteousness astray, and until his end, al their
 sins, iniquities, wickedness, and a l their unlawful deeds are caused by
 his dominion in accordance with the mysteries of God...
 But the God of Israel and His Angel of Truth wi l succour al the sons
 of light. For it is He who created the spirits of Light and Darkness and
 founded every action upon them and established every deed [upon]
 their [ways]. And He loves the one everlastingly and delights in its
 works for ever; but the counsel of the other He loathes and for ever
 hates its ways.
(IQS I, 13-IV I)
 Convictions of this kind, with their theories of individual election and
 predestination, coupled with a precise knowledge of the boundary
 dividing right from wrong, can lead to self-righteousness and arrogant
 intolerance of the masses thought to be rejected by God. The
 Essenes, however, appear to have concentrated more on the
 blessedness of the chosen than on the damnation of the
 unpredestined. Besides, they could always argue that Jews who
 refused to repent and remained outside the new Covenant were
 responsible for their own doom.
 But the spiritual masters of the Community were doubtless aware of
 the danger of the sin of pride to which their less enlightened brothers
 were exposed and attacked it on three fronts. The Qumran Hymns,
 unlike certain biblical Psalms (e.g. Psalm xxvi) which testify to an acute
 form of sanctimoniousness, never cease to emphasize the sectary’s
 frailty, unworthiness and total dependence on God.
 Clay and dust that I am,
 what can I devise unless Thou wish it,
 and what contrive unless Thou desire it?
 What strength shal I have
 unless Thou keep me upright
 and how shal I understand
 unless by (the spirit) which Thou hast shaped for me?
 (IQH XV I [formerly x], 5-7)
 Not only is election itself owed to God’s grace, but perseverance in the
 way of holiness cannot be counted on unless he offers his continuous
 help and support.
 When the wicked rose against Thy Covenant
 and the damned against Thy word,
 I said in my sinfulness,
 ‘I am forsaken by Thy Covenant.’
 But caling to mind the might of Thy hand
 and the greatness of Thy compassion,
 I rose and stood .
I lean on Thy grace
 (IQH XI [formerly IV], 34-7)
 and on the multitude of Thy mercies.
 Another theme constantly stressed in Essene teaching is that not only
 is God’s assistance necessary in order to remain faithful to his Law;
 the very knowledge of that Law is a gift from heaven. Al their special
 understanding and wisdom comes from God.
 From the source of His righteousness
 is my justification,
 and from His marvelous mysteries
 is the light in my heart.
 My eyes have gazed
 on that which is eternal,
 on wisdom concealed from men,
 on knowledge and wise design
 (hidden) from the sons of men;
 on a fountain of righteousness
 and on a storehouse of power,
 on a spring of glory
 (hidden) from the assembly of flesh.
 God has given them to His chosen ones
 as an everlasting possession,
 and has caused them to inherit
 the lot of the Holy Ones.
 (IQS XI, 5-8)
 The sentiments expressed in the Hymns, of love and gratitude and
 awareness of God’s presence, represent a true religiousness and
 must have helped the sectary not to alow his life - governed as it was
 by laws and precepts-to slide into one of mere religious formalism.
 Thou hast upheld me with certain truth;
 Thou hast delighted me with Thy Holy Spirit
 and [hast opened my heart] ti l this day .
 The abundance of (Thy) forgiveness is with my steps
 and infinite mercy accompanies Thy judgement of me.
 Until I am old Thou wilt care for me;
 for my father knew me not
 and my mother abandoned me to Thee.
For Thou art a father
 to al [the sons] of Thy truth,
 and as a woman who tenderly loves her babe,
 so dost Thou rejoice in them;
 and as a foster-father bearing a child in his lap,
 so carest Thou for al Thy creatures.
 (IQH XVI [formerly IX], 32-6)
 Whether the average Essene actualy succeeded in fulfi ling his high
 ideals, we cannot of course know: experience past and present has
 shown that paths to sanctity devised by organized religion are beset
 with snares. As has been noted earlier (pp. 31-2 on 4Q477), in some
 individual cases, moral shortcomings were actualy recorded. But there
 can be no doubt of the sectaries’ intention. The aim of a holy life lived
 within the Covenant was to penetrate the secrets of heaven in this
 world and to stand before God for ever in the next. Like Isaiah, who
 beheld the seraphim proclaiming ‘Holy, holy, holy’, and like Ezekiel,
 who in a trance watched the winged cherubim drawing the divine
 throne-chariot, and like the ancient Jewish mystics who consecrated
 themselves, despite official disapproval by the rabbis, to the
 contemplation of the same throne-chariot and the heavenly Palaces,
 the Essenes, too, strove for a similar mystical knowledge, as one of
 their number testifies in a description of his own vision of the ministers
 of the ‘Glorious Face’.
 The [cheru]bim prostrate themselves before Him and bless. As they rise, a
 whispered divine voice [is heard], and there is a roar of praise. When they
 drop their wings, there is a [whispere]d divine voice. The cherubim bless
 the image of the throne-chariot above the firmament, [and] they praise [the
 majes]ty of the luminous firmament beneath His seat of glory. When the
 wheels advance, angels of holiness come and go. From between His
 glorious wheels there is as it were a fiery vision of most holy spirits. About
 them, the appearance of rivulets of fire in the likeness of gleaming brass,
 and a work of . radiance in many-coloured glory, marvelous pigments,
 clearly mingled. The spirits of the living ‘gods’ move perpetua ly with the
 glory of the marvelous chariot(s). The whispered voice of blessing
 accompanies the roar of their advance, and they praise the Holy One on
 their way of return. When they ascend, they ascend marvelously, and
 when they setle, they stand sti l. The sound of joyful praise is silenced
 and there is a whispered blessing of the ‘gods’ in al the camps of God.
(4Q405 20, i-22)
 3 WORSHIP IN THE COMMUNITY OF THE
 COVENANT
 In addition to the worship of God offered through a life of holiness, the
 Qumran sectary had more particularly to perform the ritual acts
 prescribed by Moses in the correct manner and at the right times. The
 earthly liturgy was intended to be a replica of that sung by the choirs of
 angels in the celestial Temple.
 To judge from the many references to it, the time element both
 calendric and horary was crucial. The Community Rule lays down that
 the Community was not to ‘depart from any command of God
 concerning their times; they shal be neither early nor late for any of
 their appointed times, they shal stray neither to the right nor to the left
 of any of His true precepts’ (IQS 1, 13-15). This injunction asks for
 exact punctuality in regard to the two daily moments of prayer meant to
 coincide with and replace the perpetual burnt-offering sacrificed in the
 Temple at sunrise and sunset (Exod. xxix, 30; Num. xxviii, 4), but it
 demands in addition a strict observance of the sect’s own liturgical
 calendar.
 He shal bless Him [with the ofering] of the lips at the times ordained by
 Him: at the beginning of the dominion of light, and at its end when it retires
 to its appointed place; at the beginning of the watches of darkness when
 He unlocks their storehouse and spreads them out, and also at their end
 when they retire before the light; when the heavenly lights shine out from
 the dweling-place of Holiness, and also when they retire to the place of
 Glory; at the entry of the (monthly) seasons on the days of the new moon,
 and also at their end when they succeed to one another .
 (IQS IX, 26-x, 4)
 To understand the peculiarity of Essenism in this respect, a few
 words need to be said about the calendar folowed by non-sectarian
 Judaism. Essentialy, this was regulated by the movements of the
moon; months varied in duration from twenty-nine to thirty days and the
 year consisted of twelve months of 354 days. Needless to say, such a
 lunar year does not correspond to the four seasons determined by the
 movements of the sun in terms of solstices and equinoxes. The
 shortfa l of about ten days between the lunar and the solar years was
 therefore compensated for by means of ‘intercalation’, i.e. by inserting
 after Adar (February/March), the twelfth month of the year, a
 supplementary ‘Second Adar’ at the end of every thirty-six lunar
 months.
 The Qumran sect rejected this seemingly artificial system and
 adopted instead a chronological reckoning, probably of priestly origin,
 based on the sun, a practice attested also in the Book of Jubilees and
 1 Enoch, and fuly laid out in the remains of a series of calendrical
 documents (4Q320-30). The outstanding feature of this solar calendar
 was its absolute regularity in that, instead of 354 days, not divisible by
 seven, it consisted of 364 days, i.e. fifty-two weeks precisely. Each of
 its four seasons was thirteen weeks long divided into three months of
 thirty days each, plus an additional ‘remembrance’ day (IQS x, 5)
 linking one season to another (13 x 7 = 91 = 3 x 30 + I). In tune in this
 way with the ‘laws of the Great Light of heaven’ (IQH XI, 5) and not with
 the ‘festivals of the nations’ (4QpHos=4Q171 11, 16), Qumran saw its
 calendar as corresponding to ‘the certain law from the mouth of God’
 (IQH xx [formerly X I], 9). Its unbroken rhythm meant furthermore that the
 first day of the year and of each subsequent season always fel on the
 same day of the week. For the Essenes this was Wednesday, since
 according to Genesis i, 14-19, it was on the fourth day that the sun and
 the moon were created. Needless to add, the same monotonous
 sequence also implied that al the feasts of the year always fel on the
 same day of the week: Passover, the fifteenth day of the first month,
 was always celebrated on a Wednesday; the Feast of Weeks, the
 fifteenth day of the third month, always on a Sunday; the Day of
 Atonement, the tenth day of the seventh month, on a Friday; the Feast
 of Tabernacles, the fifteenth day of the seventh month, on a
 Wednesday, etc. This solar calendar with its eternal regularity cannot
 of course stand up to the astronomical calculation of 365 days 5 hours
 48 minutes and 48 seconds to the year, but the Scrols so far
published give no indication of how the Essenes proposed to cope
 with this inconvenience, or whether indeed they were even aware of it.
 One practical consequence of the sect’s adherence to a calendar at
 variance with that of the rest of Judaism was that its feast-days were
 working days for other Jews and vice versa. The Wicked Priest was
 thus able to travel (journeys of any distance being forbidden on holy
 days of rest) to the ‘place of exile’ of the Teacher of Righteousness
 while he and his folowers were celebrating the Day of Atonement (cf.
 above, p. 55). In fact, it is likely that the persecutors of the sect
 deliberately chose that date to oblige the sectaries to attend to them
 on what they considered to be their ‘Day of Fasting’ and ‘Sabbath of
 repose’, and thus ‘confuse them and cause them to stumble’. The
 same sort of story is told in the Mishnah of the Patriarch Gamaliel I,
 who endeavoured to humiliate Rabbi Joshua ben Hananiah by sending
 him the folowing instruction: ‘I charge you that you come to me with
 your staff and your money on the Day of Atonement according to your
 reckoning’ (Rosh ha-Shanah I, 9).
 Another peculiarity of the liturgical calendar of the Community,
 attested in the Temple Scrol, was the division of the year into seven
 fifty-day periods - hence the name pentecontad calendar - each
 marked by an agricultural festival, e.g. the Feast of New Wine, the
 Feast of Oil, etc. A similar system is mentioned by Philo in connection
 with the Therapeutae in his book, On the Contemplative Life. One of
 these festivals, the Feast of the New Wheat, coincided with the Feast
 of Weeks and was for the Essenes/Therapeutae also the principal holy
 day of the year, that of the Renewal of the Covenant, the importance of
 which is discussed above (p. 44). From the Book of Jubilees, where,
 as has been said, the same calendar is folowed, it is clear that
 Pentecost (the Feast of Weeks), together with the Feast of the
 Renewal of the Covenant, were celebrated on the fifteenth day of the
 third month (Jub. VI, 17-19; cf. also 4Q266 fr. I ii; 270 fr. 7 ii). An
 outline of the ceremony performed on this holy day, with its confession
 of sin and its blessings and curses, is preserved in the Community
 Rule (IQS I, 16-11, 25; cf. also 4Q280, 286-7). The sectaries assemble
 for the service in strict hierarchical order: the priests first, ranked in
 order of status, after them the Levites, and lastly ‘al the people one
after another in their Thousands, Hundreds, Fifties and Tens, that every
 Israelite may know his place in the Community of God according to the
 everlasting design’ (IQS 11, 22-3). Blessing God, the priests then
 recite his acts of loving-kindness to Israel and the Levites reca l Israel’s
 rebelions against him. This recognition of guilt is fo lowed by an act of
 public repentance appropriate to a community of converts.
 We have strayed! We have [disobeyed!] We and our fathers before us have
 sinned and acted wickedly in walking [counter to the precepts] of truth and
 righteousness. [And God has] judged us and our fathers also; but He has
 bestowed His bountiful mercy on us from everlasting to everlasting.
 (IQS I, 24-11, 1)
 After the confession, the priests solemnly bless the converts of Israel,
 caling down on them in particular the gifts of wisdom and knowledge :
 May He bless you with al good and preserve you from al evil! May He
 lighten your heart with life-giving wisdom and grant you eternal knowledge!
 May He raise His merciful face towards you for everlasting bliss!
 (IQS I, 2-4)
 This paraphrase of the blessing of Israel which God commanded
 Moses to transmit to Aaron and his sons in Numbers vi, 24-6, and
 which recals the fourth of the daily Eighteen Benedictions of traditional
 Judaism, is accompanied by a Levitical curse of the party of Belial and
 a special malediction directed by both priests and Levites at any
 sectary whose conversion may be insincere:
 Cursed be the man who enters this Covenant while walking among the
 idols of his heart, who sets up before himself his stumbling-block of sin
 so that he may backslide! Hearing the words of this Covenant, he blesses
 himself in his heart and says, ‘Peace be with me, even though I walk in the
 stubbornness of my heart’ .
 (IQS I, 11-12)
 The Cave 4 sources of the Damascus Document depict also the ritual
of dismissal from the Community. The Priest overseeing the
 Congregation, addressing God, declares:
 Thou hast cursed those who transgress (the boundary) but we
 maintain it.
 Thereupon ‘the dismissed man shal leave and whoever eats from
 what is his or greets the man who has been dismissed, and agrees
 with him, ... his judgement shal be complete’ (4Q266 fr. 11 I ii; 270 fr. 7
 ii).
 Each benediction and curse is approved by the whole congregation
 with a twice repeated ‘Amen’.
 The ceremony of the Renewal of the Covenant seems to be the only
 rite described in any detail in the Community Rule and the Damascus
 Document, but as the Essenes laid so much emphasis on the ful and
 punctilious observance of the Law of Moses it may be taken for
 granted that they did not omit the many other basic acts of Jewish
 religion and worship. The fact that the Community Rule is satisfied
 simply to state without any specification that a single deliberate
 transgression of the Mosaic Law would entail irrevocable expulsion
 from the sect implies that the elite sectaries subject to this rule did not
 need detailed guidance: they were supposed to be fuly versed in the
 Torah. Legislation addressed to less wel-trained members, contained
 in the Damascus Document and in the Temple Scrol, is more
 discursive. Circumcision, for example, which was certainly practised,
 is mentioned in connection with female uncleanness after childbirth
 when Leviticus xii, 3 is cited in passing (4Q266 fr. 6 ii). It is also
 referred to figuratively in the context of severing the ‘foreskin of the evil
 inclination’ (IQS v, 5), or possibly and by implication as the ‘Covenant
 of Abraham’ mentioned in connection with (Gentile) man-servants (CD
 XI, I; XVI, 6). The laws of purity were also assuredly essential to the
 sect, and some practical guidance is given in IQTS XLVI-LI, 4Q274
84, and MMT. The dietary laws are dealt with in the Damascus
 Document, MMT and the Temple Scrol. For instance, the eating of
 ‘live creatures’ (e.g. larvae of bees, fish and locusts) is declared to be
 prohibited in CD XI, 11-15. MMT states that a live animal foetus must
 be slaughtered before becoming fit for consumption (4Q396 frs. 1-21).
Further laws appear in the Temple Scrol XLVI-XLV I. Josephus also
 remarks that an Essene was forbidden to eat food prepared by people
 not belonging to the brotherhood (War 11, 143).
 On three other topics, the Qumran sources are less taciturn: ritual
 ablutions, Temple worship and the sacred meal. Discussed already as
 part of the life of the sect, it remains now to consider the doctrinal
 significance of these rites.
 Josephus, as wil be recaled, observes that the Essenes took a
 ritual bath twice daily before meals (cf. War 11, 129, 132). 4Q414
entitled ‘Baptismal liturgy’ - deals definitely with such a bathing ritual
 but the text is so mutilated that no readable translation is possible. As
 regards the bath itself, the Damascus Document adds that the
 minimum quantity of clean water required for a valid act of purification
 was to be the amount necessary to cover a man (CD x, 12-13). This is
 not of course an Essene invention, but typicaly, where the Mishnah
 prescribes a minimum of forty seahs (about 120 galons), the sect’s
 teaching concentrates on the practical purpose of the Mishnaic rule,
 namely that ‘in them men may immerse themselves’ (Mikwaot VI, I),
 and eliminates the obligation of having carefuly to measure out what
 that quantity should be. Of greater interest, however, is the theological
 aspect, with its insistence on a correlation between the inner condition
 of a man and the outer rite. The wicked, according to the Community
 Rule, ‘sha l not enter the water ... for they shal not be cleansed unless
 they turn from their wickedness’ (IQS v, 13-14). True purification
 comes from the ‘spirit of holiness’ and true cleansing from the ‘humble
 submission’ of the soul to al God’s precepts.
 For it is through the spirit of true counsel concerning the ways of man that
 al his sins shal be expiated . He shal be cleansed from al his sins by
 the spirit of holiness . and his iniquity shal be expiated by the spirit of
 uprightness and humility. And when his flesh is sprinkled with purifying
 water and sanctified by cleansing water, it shal be made clean by the
 humble submission of his soul to al the precepts of God.
 (IQS I, 6-9)
 The second issue has to do with the sect’s attitude towards the
 Temple and Temple sacrifice. While some Essenes, notwithstanding
their vow of total fidelity to the Law of Moses, rejected the validity of the
 Sanctuary and refused to participate (temporarily) in its rites (cf. Philo,
 Omnis probus 75; Josephus, Antiquities XV I, 19), they evaded the
 theological dilemma in which this stand might have placed them by
 contending that until the rededication of the Temple, the only true
 worship of God was to be offered in their establishment. The Council
 of the Community was to be the ‘Most Holy Dweling for Aaron’ where,
 ‘without the flesh of holocausts and the fat of sacrifice‘, a ‘sweet
 fragrance’ was to be sent up to God, and where prayer was to serve
 ‘as an acceptable fragrance of righteousness’ (IQS V I, 8-9; IX, 4-5).
 The Community itself was to be the sacrifice offered to God in
 atonement for Israel’s sins (IQS V I, 4-5; 4Q265 fr. 7 ii).
 Besides this evidence in the Community Rule, the equation of the
 Council of the Community with the Temple also appears in the
 Habakkuk Commentary (XI, 3-4) in a most interesting interpretation of
 the word ‘Lebanon’. Traditionaly, ‘Lebanon’ is understood by ancient
 Jewish interpreters to symbolize ‘the Temple’. For example,
 Deuteronomy iii, 25, ‘Let me go over ... and see ... that goodly
 mountain and Lebanon‘, is rendered in Targum Onkelos as, ‘Let me
 go over ... and see ... that goodly mountain and the Temple’. The
 Qumran commentator, explaining the Habakkuk text, ‘For the violence
 done to Lebanon shal overwhelm you’ (Hab. 11, 17), proceeds from
 the belief that the Council of the Community is the one valid Temple.
 He then sets out to prove it by directly associating Lebanon with the
 Council in the conviction that the traditional exegesis wi l be familiar to
 al his readers: Lebanon = Temple. Temple = Council of the
 Community, ergo Lebanon = Council of the Community.
 73
 The symbolical approach of the sect to sacrificial worship may
 account for Essene celibacy (where it was practised). Sexual
 abstinence was imposed on those participating in the Temple
 services, both priests and laymen; no person who had sexual
 intercourse (or an involuntary emission, or even any physical contact
 with a menstruating woman) could lawfuly take part. More importantly
 sti l, bearing in mind the central place occupied by prophecy in Essene
 doctrine, clear indications exist in inter-Testamental and rabbinic
 literature that a similar renunciation was associated with the prophetic
state. Thus Moses, in order always to be ready to hear the voice of
 God, is said by Philo to have cleansed himself of ‘al cals of mortal
 nature, food, drink, and intercourse with women’ (Life of Moses 11, 68
9). Consequently, despite the attempt made by Philo and by Josephus
 to attribute the sect’s celibacy to misogyny, a more reasonable
 explanation would be that it was thought that lives intended to be wholy
 consecrated to worship and wholy preoccupied with meditation on
 prophecy should be kept wholy, and not just intermittently, pure.
 The common table of the Essenes, the third special cultic subject to
 be examined, has already been discussed in Chapter I (p. 32), but
 one remaining point needs to be mentioned, namely that since the
 rules relating to the daily meal and the messianic meal are the same, it
 is not unreasonable to infer from the New Testament paralel that the
 former was thought to prefigure the latter. As is wel known, the
 evangelist Matthew portrays the Last Supper as the prototype of the
 great eschatological feast, quoting Jesus as saying:
 I te l you, I sha l not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when
 I drink it new with you in my Father’s Kingdom.
 (Math. xxvi, 29)
 4 FUTURE EXPECTATIONS IN THE COMMUNITY
 OF THE COVENANT
 The Essene sect was born into a world of eschatological ferment, of
 intense expectation of the end foretold by the Prophets. Using biblical
 models as vehicles for their own convictions, the Teacher of
 Righteousness and the Community’s sages projected an image of the
 future which is elaborate and colourful, but which cannot always be fuly
 comprehended by us, partly because some of the associations
 escape us, and partly because of gaps in the extant texts. They
 foresaw in their Community’s story the fulfilment of the prophetic
 expectations concerning the salvation of the righteous. It was from their
 ranks, swolen by the re-conversion of some of the ‘Simple of Ephraim’
(4QpNah=4Q169 I, 4-5) who had caused such distress by their
 previous apostasy, and by other Jewish recruits (IQSa I, 1-5; cf. also
 4Q471a), that the sons of Light would go to battle against the sons of
 Darkness. The Community or the ‘exiles of the desert’ would move to
 Jerusalem after a preliminary attack on the ‘army of Belial’, symbolized
 by the ‘ungodly of the Covenant’ and their foreign alies from the
 environs of Judaea, and an assault on the Kittim occupying the Holy
 Land. These events were expected to cover a period of six years. The
 seventh, the first sabbatical year of the War, would see the restoration
 of Temple worship.
 Of the remaining thirty-three years of its duration, four would be
 sabbatical years, so the War would be waged during twenty-nine:
 against the ‘sons of Shem’ for nine years, against the ‘sons of Ham’ for
 ten years, and against the ‘sons of Japheth’ for another ten years (IQM
 I- I). The final conflict would end with the total defeat of the ‘King of the
 Kittim’ and of Satan’s hosts, and with the joyful celebrations of the
 Hero, i.e. God, by the victorious sons of Light.
 [Rise up, O Hero!
 Lead of Thy captives, O Glorious One!
 Gather up] Thy spoils, O Author of mighty deeds!
 Lay Thy hand on the neck of Thine enemies
 and Thy feet [on the pile of the slain!
 Smite the nations, Thine adversaries],
 and devour the flesh of the sinner with Thy sword!
 Fi l Thy land with glory
 and Thine inheritance with blessing!
 [Let there be a multitude of ca tle in Thy fields,
 and in] Thy palaces
 [silver and gold and precious stones]!
 O Zion, rejoice greatly!
 Rejoice al you cities of Judah!
 [Keep your gates ever open
 that the] hosts of the nations
 [may be brought in]!
 Their kings shal serve you
 and al your oppressors shal bow down before you;
 [they sha l lick the dust of your feet.
 Shout for joy, O daughters of] my people!
Deck yourselves with glorious jewels
 (IQM XIX, 2-8)
 [and rule over the kingdom of the nations!
 Sovereignty sha l be to the Lord]
 and everlasting dominion to Israel.
 Such was to be the course of the War in its earthly dimensions. But it
 would possess in addition a cosmic quality. The hosts of the sons of
 Light, commanded by the ‘Prince of the Congregation’, were to be
 supported by the angelic armies led by the ‘Prince of Light’, also
 known in the Scrols as the archangel Michael or Melchizedek.
 Similarly, the ‘ungodly of the Covenant’ and their Gentile associates
 were to be aided by the demonic forces of Satan, or Belial, or
 Melkiresha’. These two opposing camps were to be evenly matched,
 and God’s intervention alone would bring about the destruction of evil
 (IQM XV I, 1-3). Elsewhere the grand finale is represented as a
 judgement scene in which the heavenly prince Melchizedek
 recompenses ‘the Holy Ones of God’ and executes ‘the vengeance of
 the judgements of God’ over Belial and his lot (IQMelch I, 9, 13). Yet, if
 my interpretation of another non-messianic composition (4Q246) is
 correct, the symbolical opponent, usurping in this writing the title ‘son
 of God’ and ‘son of the Most High‘, is said to be overcome by ‘the
 people of God’ ready to establish with the help of the Great God an
 eternal kingdom.
 The role of the priests and Levites in this imaginary ultimate
 grappling of good with evil, as described in the War Scrol, emerges
 as that of non-combatants, performing various battle rituals and
 directing the various war activities (advance, retreat, ambush, etc.).
 However, it is more difficult to determine the function of the
 commander-in-chief, the so-caled ‘Prince of the Congregation’. We
 learn that on his shield wi l be inscribed his name, the names of Israel,
 Levi and Aaron, and those of the twelve tribes and their chiefs (IQM v,
 1-2); but little room appears to be left in the War Rule for him to act as
 the Royal Messiah. God himself is the supreme agent of salvation and
 after him in importance is Michael.
 In some other Scrols, by contrast, the theme of Messianism is more
prominent. Complex and sui generis, it envisages sometimes one
 messianic figure, royal, Davidic, triumphant (4Q285, 4Q161, and the
 Damascus Document speaking of the Messiah - in the singular, cf.
 4Q266 fr. 11 i, 12 - of Aaron and Israel), again and again two, and
 once possibly even three Messiahs. The lay King-Messiah, otherwise
 known as the ‘Branch of David’, the ‘Messiah of Israel’, the ‘Prince of
 [a l] the Congregation’ and the ‘Sceptre’, was to usher in, according to
 the sect’s book of Blessings, ‘the Kingdom of his people’ and ‘bring
 death to the ungodly’ and defeat ‘[the kings of the] nations’ (IQSb v, 21,
 25, 28). The recently and groundlessly advanced theory that ‘the Prince
 of the Congregation, Branch of David’ of 4Q285 is a suffering and
 executed Messiah is contradicted both by the immediate context and
 the broader exegetical framework of Isaiah x, 34-xi, I on which 4Q285
 depends (cf. 4Q161, frs. 8-10; IQSb v, 20-29). As befits a priestly sect,
 however, the Priest-Messiah comes first in the order of precedence;
 he is also caled the ‘Messiah of Aaron’, the ‘Priest’, the ‘Interpreter of
 the Law’ (cf. IQSa I, 20). The King-Messiah was to defer to him and to
 the priestly authority in general in a l legal matters: ‘As they teach him,
 so shal he judge’ (4QpIsa=4Q161 frs. 8-11, 1.23). The ‘Messiah of
 Aaron’ was to be the final Teacher, ‘he who shal teach righteousness
 at the end of days’ (CD VI, I). But he was also to preside over the
 battle liturgy (IQM xv, 4; XVI, 13; XV I, 5) and the eschatological
 banquet (IQSa I, 12-21). It seems that there are some alusions
 suggesting that the eschatological High Priest was expected to
 undergo suffering and humiliation before being glorified (see 4Q4Ib,
 49I fr. I, 54I, fr. 9).
 The third figure, ‘the Prophet’, is mentioned directly though briefly
 only once: we are told that his arrival was expected together with that
 of the Messiahs of Aaron and Israel (IQS ix, I). The whole messianic
 phrase is absent, however, from al the extant 4Q manuscripts of the
 Community Rule. Viewed in the context of inter-Testamental Jewish
 ideas, the Prophet was to be either an Elijah returned as a precursor
 of the Messiah (Mal. iv, 5; 1 Enoch xc, 31, 37; Matth. xi, 13; xvii, 12), or
 as a divine guide sent to Israel in the final days (I Mac. iv, 46; xiv, 41;
 Jn. i, 21), no doubt identical with ‘the Prophet’ promised by God to
 Moses (‘I wi l raise up for them a prophet like you ... He shal convey al
my commands to them‘, Deut. xviii, 15-18; cf. Acts iii, 22-3; vii, 37). An
 identification of ‘the Prophet’ with a ‘new Moses’ is supported by the
 inclusion of the Deuteronomy passage in the Messianic Anthology or
 Testimonia from Cave 4 (4Q175) as the first of three messianic proof
texts, the second being Balaam’s prophecy concerning the Star to rise
 out of Jacob (Num. xxiv, 15-17), and the third, the blessing of Levi by
 Moses (Deut. xxxiii, I), prefiguring respectively the royal Messiah and
 the Priest-Messiah.
 If it is proper to deduce from these not too explicit data that, if ever
 expected by the Qumran sect, the messianic Prophet (or prophetic
 Messiah) was to teach the truth revealed on the eve of the
 establishment of the Kingdom, it would folow that his part was to al
 intents and purposes the same as that attributed by the Qumran
 Essenes to the Teacher of Righteousness. If this is correct, it would not
 be unreasonable to suggest that at some point of the sect’s history the
 coming of the Prophet was no longer expected; he was believed to
 have already appeared in the person of the Teacher of Righteousness.
 The evidence available does not permit categorical statements on
 the sectaries’ views about what was to folow the days of the
 Messiahs. Some kind of metamorphosis was awaited by them, as is
 clear from the Community Rule - ‘until the determined end, and until the
 Renewal’ (IQS IV, 25). But one cannot be sure that it was understood
 as synonymous with the new creation of the Apocalypses of Ezra (vii,
 75) and Baruch (xxxii, 6). Similarly, the ‘new Jerusalem’ described in
 various manuscripts (cf. IQ32; 2Q24; 4Q554-555; 5Q15; 11Q18) does
 not match by definition the Holy City descending from above of I Enoch
 (xc, 28-9) or Revelation xxi, but could be an earthly city rebuilt
 according to the plans of angelic architects.
 As for the afterlife proper, and the place it occupied in Essene
 thought, for many centuries in the biblical age Jews paid little attention
 to this question. They believed with most peoples in antiquity that after
 death the just and wicked alike would share a miserable, shadowy
 existence in Sheol, the underworld, where even God is forgotten: ‘Turn,
 O Lord, save my life,’ cries the psalmist, ‘for in death there is no
 remembrance of thee; in Sheol who can give thee praise?’ (Ps. vi, 5;
 cf. Isa. xxxviii, 18; Ps. lxxxviii, 10-12, etc.) The general hope was for a
long and prosperous life, many children, a peaceful death in the midst
 of one’s family, and burial in the tomb of one’s fathers. Needless to
 say, with this simple outlook went a most sensitive appreciation of the
 present time as being the only moment in which man can be with God.
 Eventualy, the innate fear of death, and the dissatisfaction of later
 biblical thinkers with a divine justice that a lowed the wicked to flourish
 on earth and the just to suffer, led to attempts in the post-exilic era to
 solve this fundamental dilemma. The idea of resurrection, or rather of
 the reunification of body and soul after death, first appears as a
 metaphor in Ezekiel’s vision of the re-birth of the Jewish nation after
 the Babylonian captivity as the re-animation of dry bones (Ezek. xxxvii;
 cf. also 4Q385 frs. 2-3). Later, after the historical experience of
 martyrdom under the persecution of Antiochus Epiphanes, resurrection
 was expected to be the true reward of individuals who freely gave their
 lives for God—i.e. for their religion (Dan. xii, 2; 2 Mac. vii, 9; xii, 44; xiv,
 46, etc.). At the same time, the notion of immortality also emerged, the
 idea that the righteous are to be vindicated and live for ever in God’s
 presence. This view is developed fuly in the Greek apocryphal Book of
 Wisdom (iii, I-V, 16).
 Josephus tels us that the Essenes subscribed to this second school
 of thought. According to him, they adopted a distinctly Helenistic
 concept of immortality, holding the flesh to be a prison out of which the
 indestructible soul of the just escapes into limitless bliss ‘in an abode
 beyond the ocean’ after its final deliverance (War I, 154-8).
 Resurrection, implying a return of the spirit to a material body, can thus
 play no part in this scheme.
 Until recently, the Scrols themselves have not been particularly
 helpful. The Hymns include equivocal statements such as, ‘Hoist a
 banner, O you who lie in the dust! O bodies gnawed by worms, raise
 up an ensign ...!’ (1QH XIV [formerly VI], 34-5; cf. XIX [formerly xi], 10
14), which may connote bodily resurrection. On the other hand, the
 poet’s language may just be alegorical. Immortality, as distinct from
 resurrection, is better attested. The substance of Josephus’ account is
 confirmed, though not surprisingly without any typicaly Helenistic
 colouring (no doubt introduced by him to please his Greek readers).
 The Community Rule, discussing the reward of the righteous and the
wicked, assures the just of ‘eternal joy in life without end, a crown of
 glory and a garment of majesty in unending light’ (IQS IV, 7-8), and
 sinners of ‘eternal torment and endless disgrace together with
 shameful extinction in the fire of the dark regions’ (IQS IV, 12-13). It is
 interesting to observe that immortality was not conceived of as an
 entirely new state, but rather as a direct continuation of the position
 attained on entry into the Community. From that moment, the sectary
 was raised to an ‘everlasting height’ and joined to the ‘everlasting
 Council‘, the ‘congregation of the Sons of Heaven’ (1QH xi [formerly I],
 20-22).
 Shortly after the ‘liberation’ of the Scrols in 1991 a previously
 unknown poetic text, usualy designated as the ‘Resurrection fragment’
 (4Q521), surfaced which, echoing Isaiah lxi, 1, describes God in the
 age of the Messiah as healing the wounded and reviving the dead. If
 this poem is an Essene composition and not a psalm dating to the late
 biblical period, it can be said that one out of many hundreds of Qumran
 manuscripts definitely testifies to the sect’s belief in bodily
 resurrection.
 In sum, the portrait of the sectary as it is reflected in his religious
 ideas and ideals bears the marks of a fastidious and deeply
 committed observance of the Mosaic Law, an overwhelming
 assurance of the correctness of his beliefs, and certainty of his own
 eventual salvation. But whereas these characteristics may strike
 readers today as far too self-confident, one would do wel not to
 overlook other traits conspicuous, in particular, in the Essenes’ prayers
 and hymns, which testify to an absolute dependence on the Almighty
 and a total devotion to what was believed to be God’s cause.
 For without Thee no way is perfect,
 and without Thy wi l nothing is done.
 It is Thou who hast taught al knowledge
 and al things come to pass by Thy wi l.
 There is none beside Thee to dispute Thy counsel
 or to understand al Thy holy design,
 or to contemplate the depth of Thy mysteries
 and the power of Thy might.
Who can endure Thy glory,
 and what is the son of man
 in the midst of Thy wonderful deeds?
 What shal one born of woman
 be accounted before Thee?
 Kneaded from the dust,
 his abode is the nourishment of worms.
 He is but a shape, but moulded clay,
 and inclines towards dust.
 (IQS XI, 17-22)
List of Abbreviations

Note on This Translation
 The purpose of this translation is to enable the reader to come into
 direct contact with the literary works found at Qumran. The English
 does not folow slavishly the Hebrew and Aramaic originals but aims at
 being faithful, inte ligible and as far as possible readable. For this
 reason the Hebrew word order had to be altered and the numbering of
 the English lines, which often did not correspond to those of the
 manuscript, had to be sacrificed. However, since the 1995 fourth
 Penguin edition, every fifth line of the manuscript has been indicated in
 the margin of the translation.
 As stated in the preface, only meaningful texts are included in this
 volume, with the occasional exception of some broken lines which
 nevertheless reveal important information. When the same writing is
 extant in several manuscripts, the translation either represents a
 composite text, or indicates significant variants, but identical
 passages are not normaly repeated. Experts are referred to the DJD
 volumes.
 Lacunae impossible to complete with any measure of confidence
 are indicated by dots in the translation. Texts supplied from a different
 manuscript of the same document appear between { }. Hypothetical
 but likely reconstructions are placed between [ ] and glosses
 necessary for fluency between ( ). Biblical quotations appearing in the
 text are printed in italics, as we l as the titles and headings which figure
 in the manuscripts. Each scrol is divided into columns. The beginning
 of each of these columns is indicated in the translation by bold Roman
 numerals: I, I, I, etc. The word vacat indicates an empty space in the
 manuscript.
 Fina ly, I wish to acknowledge here the considerable debt we al owe
 to J. T. Milik and J. Strugnel for their pioneering decipherment of many
 of the Cave 4 texts.
A. The Rules
 ‘The Manual of Discipline’, Israel Museum, Jerusalem
The Community Rule
 (IQS, 4Q255-64, 4Q280, 286-7, 4Q502, 5QI, 13)
 Discovered in Cave I, the eleven relatively wel-preserved columns of
 this manuscript (IQS) were first published in 1951 by M. Burrows under
 the title The Manual of Discipline (The Dead Sea Scro ls of St Mark’s
 Monastery, I, New Haven). Important fragments of ten other
 manuscripts of the Rule containing a certain number of variant
 readings were also found in Cave 4 (4QSa-j = 4Q255-64), and two
 smal fragments in Cave 5(5Q11=1QS I, 4-7 and 13 quoting 1QS I, 4
5 and I, 19). Other citations of the Community Rule, especialy the
 penal code from 1QS VI, may be found in the 4Q fragments of the
 Damascus Document (cf. 4Q266, fr. 10 and 270, fr. 7) and in the
 hybrid S-D (4Q265). The latter quotes also from 1QS IV, VI and V I,
 Fina ly, 4Q502, fr. 16 includes a quotation from 1QS IV, 4-6. See also
 11Q29 in DJD, XX I, 433-4, quoting 1QS VI, 23.
 The 1Q manuscript bears the stamp of editorial modification. For
 instance, in column x the original ‘I wil conceal knowledge with
 discretion’ is corrected to ‘I wi l impart knowledge with discretion’. The
 section covered by columns V I-IX was particularly subjected to
 alteration as indicated by corrections and interlinear additions in 1QS,
 but remarkably none of these appears in the 4QS manuscripts. The
 same section is considerably abridged in 4QSe=4Q259, where the
 text jumps from 1QS V I, 15 directly to ix, 12.
 The Community Rule is probably one of the oldest documents of the
 sect; its composition may have originated around 100 BCE, and the
 Cave I copy itself is said to have been produced during the quarter of a
 century fo lowing that date. It seems to have been intended for the
 Community’s teachers, for its Masters or Guardians, and contains
 extracts from liturgical ceremonies, an outline of a tractate on the
spirits of truth and falsehood, statutes concerned with initiation into the
 sect and with its common life, organization and discipline, a penal
 code, and finaly a poetic dissertation on the fundamental religious
 duties of the Master and his disciples, and on the sacred seasons
 proper to the Community.
 Literary analysis suggests that the main document begins at 1QS v,
 1. This is where 4QSd (=4Q258) starts. The preceding columns in 1QS
 I-IV prefix to the Rule proper a liturgical text (1QS 1, I- I, 11) and the
 probably independent tractate on the two spirits (1QS I, 12-IV, 25).
 Among the 4Q manuscripts only 4QSb (=4Q256) contains remnants of
 al the sections of 1QS. The other documents represent either 1QS I-IV
 or 1QS V-XI. 4QSe (4Q259) substitutes, it seems, the text of 4QOtot
 (4Q319) for that of 1QS X-XI.
 There are, to my knowledge, no writings in ancient Jewish sources
 paralel to the Community Rule, but a similar type of literature
 flourished among Christians between the second and fourth centuries,
 the so-caled ‘Church Orders’ represented by works such as the
 Didache, the Didascalia, the Apostolic Constitution.
 The contents of 1QS may be divided into three main sections, but
 further subheadings appear in the text itself:
 1. Entry into the Covenant, folowed by an instruction on the two
 spirits (I-IV).
 2. Statutes relating to the Council of the Community (V-IX).
 3. Directives addressed to the Master, and the Master’s Hymn
 (IX-XI).
 Some of the variant readings appearing in the Cave 4 manuscripts
 have been adopted in this translation, but the significantly different
 texts of 4QSd (4Q258) and 4QSe (4Q259) wil be appended to 1QS.
 For the editio princeps of 1QS, see M. Burrows et al., The Dead
 Sea Scrols of St Mark’s Monastery Vol.I, Fasc. 2:Plates and
 transcription of the Manual of Discipline, 1951. Cf. also J. H.
 Charlesworth et al., eds., The Dead Sea Scro ls Vol. I: Rule of the
 Community and Related Documents, 1994, 1-51. S. Metso, The
 Textual Development of the Qumran Community Rule (1997).
1QS
 I [The Master shal teach the sai]nts to live(?) {according to the Book}
 (4Q255, 257) of the Community [Rul]e, that they may seek God with a
 whole heart and soul, and do what is good and right before Him as He
 commanded by the hand of Moses and al His servants the Prophets;
 that they may love al that He has chosen and hate al that He has
 rejected; that they may abstain from al evil and hold fast to al good;
 that they may practise truth, righteousness, and justice upon earth and
 no longer stubbornly fo low a sinful heart and lustful eyes, committing al
 manner of evil. He shal admit into the Covenant of Grace al those who
 have freely devoted themselves to the observance of God’s precepts,
 that they may be joined to the counsel of God and may live perfectly
 before Him in accordance with al that has been revealed concerning
 their appointed times, and that they may love al the sons of light, each
 according to his lot in God’s design, and hate al the sons of darkness,
 each according to his guilt in God’s vengeance.
 Al those who freely devote themselves to His truth shal bring al their
 knowledge, powers and possessions into the Community of God, that
 they may purify their knowledge in the truth of God’s precepts and
 order their powers according to His ways of perfection and al their
 possessions according to His righteous counsel. They shal not depart
 from any command of God concerning their times; they shal be neither
 early nor late for any of their appointed times, they shal stray neither to
 the right nor to the left of any of His true precepts. Al those who
 embrace the Community Rule shal enter into the Covenant before God
 to obey al His commandments so that they may not abandon Him
 during the dominion of Belial because of fear or terror or affliction.
 On entering the Covenant, the Priests and Levites shal bless the
 God of salvation and al His faithfulness, and al those entering the
 Covenant shal say after them, ‘Amen, Amen!’
 Then the Priests shal recite the favours of God manifested in His
 mighty deeds and shal declare al His merciful grace to Israel, and the
 Levites shal recite the iniquities of the children of Israel, a l their guilty
 rebelions and sins during the dominion of Belial. And after them, al
those entering the Covenant shal confess and say: ‘We have strayed!
 We have [disobeyed!] We and our fathers before us have sinned and
 acted wickedly in walking [counter to the precepts] of truth and
 righteousness. [And God has] judged us and our fathers also; I but He
 has bestowed His bountiful mercy on us from everlasting to
 everlasting.’ And the Priests shal bless al the men of the lot of God
 who walk perfectly in al His ways, saying: ‘May He bless you with al
 good and preserve you from al evil! May He lighten your heart with life
giving wisdom and grant you eternal knowledge! May He raise His
 merciful face towards you for everlasting bliss!’
 And the Levites shal curse al the men of the lot of Belial, saying: ‘Be
 cursed because of al your guilty wickedness! May He deliver you up
 for torture at the hands of the vengeful Avengers! May He visit you with
 destruction by the hand of al the Wreakers of Revenge! Be cursed
 without mercy because of (4Q256) the darkness of your deeds! Be
 damned in the shadowy place of everlasting fire! May God not heed
 when you cal on Him, nor pardon you by blotting out your sin! May He
 raise His angry face towards you for vengeance! May there be no
 “Peace” for you in the mouth of those who hold fast to the Fathers!’
 And after the blessing and the cursing, al those entering the Covenant
 shal say, ‘Amen, Amen!’
 And the Priests and Levites shal continue, saying: ‘Cursed be the
 man who enters this Covenant while walking among the idols of his
 heart, who sets up before himself his stumbling-block of sin so that he
 may backslide! Hearing the words of this Covenant, he blesses
 himself in his heart and says, “Peace be with me, even though I walk in
 the stubbornness of my heart” (Deut. xxix, 18-19), whereas his spirit,
 parched (for lack of truth) and watered (with lies), shal be destroyed
 without pardon. God’s wrath and His zeal for His precepts shal
 consume him in everlasting destruction. A l the curses of the Covenant
 shal cling to him and God wil set him apart for evil. He shal be cut off
 from the midst of al the sons of light, and because he has turned aside
 from God on account of his idols and his stumbling-block of sin, his lot
 shal be among those who are cursed for ever.’ And after them, al
 those entering the Covenant shal answer and say, ‘Amen, Amen!’
 Thus shal they do, year by year, for as long as the dominion of Belial
endures. The Priests shal enter first, ranked one after another
 according to the perfection of their spirit; then the Levites; and thirdly,
 al the people one after another in their Thousands, Hundreds, Fifties,
 and Tens, that every Israelite may know his place in the Community of
 God according to the everlasting design. No man shal move down
 from his place nor move up from his alotted position. For according to
 the holy design, they shal al of them be in a Community of truth and
 virtuous humility, of loving-kindness and good intent one towards the
 other, and (they shal al of them be) sons of the everlasting Company.
 No man [shal be in the] Community of His truth who refuses to enter
 [the Covenant of] God so that he may walk in the stubbornness of his
 heart, for I his soul detests the wise teaching of just laws. He shal not
 be counted among the upright for he has not persisted in the
 conversion of his life. His knowledge, powers, and possessions shal
 not enter the Council of the Community, for whoever ploughs the mud
 of wickedness returns defiled (?). He shal not be justified by that which
 his stubborn heart declares lawful, for seeking the ways of light he
 looks towards darkness. He shal not be reckoned among the perfect;
 he shal neither be purified by atonement, nor cleansed by purifying
 waters, nor sanctified by seas and rivers, nor washed clean with any
 ablution. Unclean, unclean sha l he be. For as long as he despises the
 precepts of God he shal receive no instruction in the Community of His
 counsel.
 For it is through the spirit of true counsel concerning the ways of man
 that al his sins shal be expiated, that he may contemplate the light of
 life. He shal be cleansed from al his sins by the spirit of holiness
 uniting him to His truth, and his iniquity sha l be expiated by the spirit of
 uprightness and humility. And when his flesh is sprinkled with purifying
 water and sanctified by cleansing water, it shal be made clean by the
 humble submission of his soul to al the precepts of God. Let him then
 order his steps {to walk} (4Q255) perfectly in al the ways commanded
 by God concerning the times appointed for him, straying neither to the
 right nor to the left and transgressing none of His words, and he shal
 be accepted by virtue of a pleasing atonement before God and it shal
 be to him a Covenant of the everlasting Community.
The Master shal instruct al the sons of light and shal teach them the
 nature of al the children of men according to the kind of spirit which
 they possess, the signs identifying their works during their lifetime,
 their visitation for chastisement, and the time of their reward.
 From the God of Knowledge comes al that is and shal be. Before
 ever they existed He established their whole design, and when, as
 ordained for them, they come into being, it is in accord with His
 glorious design that they accomplish their task without change. The
 laws of al things are in His hand and He provides them with al their
 needs.
 He has created man to govern the world, and has appointed for him
 two spirits in which to walk until the time of His visitation: the spirits of
 truth and injustice. Those born of truth spring from a fountain of light,
 but those born of injustice spring from a source of darkness. Al the
 children of righteousness are ruled by the Prince of Light and walk in
 the ways of light, but al the children of injustice are ruled by the Angel
 of Darkness and walk in the ways of darkness. The Angel of Darkness
 leads al the children of righteousness astray, and until his end, al their
 sin, iniquities, wickedness, and a l their unlawful deeds are caused by
 his dominion in accordance with the mysteries of God. Every one of
 their chastisements, and every one of the seasons of their distress,
 shal be brought about by the rule of his persecution; for al his alotted
 spirits seek the overthrow of the sons of light.
 But the God of Israel and His Angel of Truth wi l succour al the sons
 of light. For it is He who created the spirits of Light and Darkness and
 founded every action upon them and established every deed [upon]
 their [ways]. And He loves the one IV everlastingly and delights in its
 works for ever; but the counsel of the other He loathes and for ever
 hates its ways.
 These are their ways in the world for the enlightenment of the heart
 of man, and so that al the paths of true righteousness may be made
 straight before him, and so that the fear of the laws of God may be
 insti led in his heart: a spirit of humility, patience, abundant charity,
 unending goodness, understanding, and inteligence; (a spirit of)
 mighty wisdom which trusts in al the deeds of God and leans on His
 great loving-kindness; a spirit of discernment in every purpose, of zeal
for just laws, of holy intent with steadfastness of heart, of great charity
 towards al the sons of truth, of admirable purity which detests al
 unclean idols, of humble conduct sprung from an understanding of al
 things, and of faithful concealment of the mysteries of truth. These are
 the counsels of the spirit to the sons of truth in this world.
 And as for the visitation of al who walk in this spirit, it shal be
 healing, great peace in a long life, and fruitfulness, together with every
 everlasting blessing and eternal joy in life without end, a crown of glory
 and a garment of majesty in unending light.
 But the ways of the spirit of falsehood are these: greed, and
 slackness in the search for righteousness, wickedness and lies,
 haughtiness and pride, falseness and deceit, cruelty and abundant evil,
 i l-temper and much foly and brazen insolence, abominable deeds
 (committed) in a spirit of lust, and ways of lewdness in the service of
 uncleanness, a blaspheming tongue, blindness of eye and dulness of
 ear, stiffness of neck and heaviness of heart, so that man walks in al
 the ways of darkness and guile.
 And the visitation of al who walk in this spirit shal be a multitude of
 plagues by the hand of al the destroying angels, everlasting damnation
 by the avenging wrath of the fury of God, eternal torment and endless
 disgrace together with shameful extinction in the fire of the dark
 regions. The times of al their generations shal be spent in sorrowful
 mourning and in bitter misery and in calamities of darkness until they
 are destroyed without remnant or survivor.
 The nature of al the children of men is ruled by these (two spirits),
 and during their life a l the hosts of men have a portion of their divisions
 and walk in (both) their ways. And the whole reward for their deeds
 shal be, for everlasting ages, according to whether each man’s portion
 in their two divisions is great or smal. For God has established the
 spirits in equal measure until the final age, and has set everlasting
 hatred between their divisions. Truth abhors the works of injustice, and
 injustice hates a l the ways of truth. And their struggle is fierce in al
 their arguments for they do not walk together. But in the mysteries of
 His understanding, and in His glorious wisdom, God has ordained an
 end for injustice, and at the time of the visitation He wi l destroy it for
 ever. Then truth, which has walowed in the ways of wickedness during
the dominion of injustice until the appointed time of judgement, shal
 arise in the world for ever. God wi l then purify every deed of man with
 His truth; He wi l refine for Himself the human frame by rooting out al
 spirit of injustice from the bounds of his flesh. He wi l cleanse him of al
 wicked deeds with the spirit of holiness; like purifying waters He wi l
 shed upon him the spirit of truth (to cleanse him) of al abomination and
 injustice. And he shal be plunged into the spirit of purification, that he
 may instruct the upright in the knowledge of the Most High and teach
 the wisdom of the sons of heaven to the perfect of way. For God has
 chosen them for an everlasting Covenant and al the glory of Adam
 shal be theirs. There shal be no more lies and al the works of injustice
 shal be put to shame.
 Until now the spirits of truth and injustice struggle in the hearts of
 men and they walk in both wisdom and foly. According to his portion of
 truth so does a man hate injustice, and according to his inheritance in
 the realm of injustice so is he wicked and so hates truth. For God has
 established the two spirits in equal measure until the determined end,
 and until the Renewal, and He knows the reward of their deeds from al
 eternity. He has alotted them to the children of men that they may know
 good [and evil, and] that the destiny of al the living may be according
 to the spirit within [them at the time] of the visitation.
 V And this is the Rule for the men of the Community who have
 freely pledged themselves to be converted from all evil and to
 cling to all His commandments according to His will
 They shal separate from the congregation of the men of injustice
 and shal unite, with respect to the Law and possessions, under the
 authority of the sons of Zadok, the Priests who keep the Covenant, and
 of the multitude of the men of the Community who hold fast to the
 Covenant. Every decision concerning doctrine, property, and justice
 shal be determined by them.
 They shal practise truth and humility in common, and justice and
 uprightness and charity and modesty in al their ways. No man shal
 walk in the stubbornness of his heart so that he strays after his heart
and eyes and evil inclination, but he shal circumcise in the Community
 the foreskin of evil inclination and of stiffness of neck that they may lay
 a foundation of truth for Israel, for the Community of the everlasting
 Covenant. They shal atone for al those in Aaron who have freely
 pledged themselves to holiness, and for those in Israel who have freely
 pledged themselves to the House of Truth, and for those who join them
 to live in community and to take part in the trial and judgement and
 condemnation of al those who transgress the precepts.
 On joining the Community, this shal be their code of behaviour with
 respect to al these precepts.
 Whoever approaches the Council of the Community shal enter the
 Covenant of God in the presence of al who have freely pledged
 themselves. He shal undertake by a binding oath to return with al his
 heart and soul to every commandment of the Law of Moses in
 accordance with al that has been revealed of it to the sons of Zadok,
 the Priests, Keepers of the Covenant and Seekers of His wil, and to
 the multitude of the men of their Covenant who together have freely
 pledged themselves to His truth and to walking in the way of His
 delight. And he shal undertake by the Covenant to separate from al
 the men of injustice who walk in the way of wickedness.
 For they are not reckoned in His Covenant. They have neither
 inquired nor sought after Him concerning His laws that they might know
 the hidden things in which they have sinfuly erred; and matters
 revealed they have treated with insolence. Therefore Wrath shal rise
 up to condemn, and Vengeance shal be executed by the curses of the
 Covenant, and great chastisements of eternal destruction shal be
 visited on them, leaving no remnant. They shal not enter the water to
 partake of the pure Meal of the men of holiness, for they shal not be
 cleansed unless they turn from their wickedness: for al who transgress
 His word are unclean. Likewise, no man shal consort with him in
 regard to his work or property lest he be burdened with the guilt of his
 sin. He shal indeed keep away from him in al things: as it is written,
 Keep away from al that is false (Exod. xxiii, 7). No member of the
 Community shal folow them in matters of doctrine and justice, or eat
 or drink anything of theirs, or take anything from them except for a
 price; as it is written, Keep away from the man in whose nostrils is
breath, for wherein is he counted? (Isa. ii, 22). For al those not
 reckoned in His Covenant are to be set apart, together with al that is
 theirs. None of the men of holiness shal lean upon works of vanity: for
 they are al vanity who know not His Covenant, and He wil blot from the
 world al them that despise His word. Al their deeds are defilement
 before Him, and al their property unclean.
 But when a man enters the Covenant to walk according to al these
 precepts that he may be joined to the holy Congregation, they shal
 examine his spirit in community with respect to his understanding and
 practice of the Law, under the authority of the sons of Aaron who have
 freely pledged themselves in the Community to restore His Covenant
 and to heed al the precepts commanded by Him, and of the multitude
 of Israel who have freely pledged themselves in the Community to
 return to His Covenant. They shal inscribe them in order, one after
 another, according to their understanding and their deeds, that every
 one may obey his companion, the man of lesser rank obeying his
 superior. And they shal examine their spirit and deeds yearly, so that
 each man may be advanced in accordance with his understanding and
 perfection of way, or moved down in accordance with his distortions.
 They shal rebuke one another in truth, humility, and charity. Let no man
 address his companion with anger, or i l-temper, or obdu[racy, or with
 envy prompted by (4Q258)] the spirit of wickedness. Let him not hate
 him [because of his uncircumcised] heart, but let him rebuke him on
 the very same day lest VI he incur guilt because of him. And
 furthermore, let no man accuse his companion before the
 Congregation without having admonished him in the presence of
 witnesses.
 These are the ways in which al of them shal walk, each man with his
 companion, wherever they dwel. The man of lesser rank shal obey the
 greater in matters of work and money. They shal eat in common and
 bless in common and deliberate in common.
 Wherever there are ten men of the Council of the Community there
 shal not lack a Priest among them. And they shal al sit before him
 according to their rank and shal be asked their counsel in al things in
 that order. And when the table has been prepared for eating, and the
 new wine for drinking, the Priest shal be the first to stretch out his hand
to bless the firstfruits of the bread and new wine.
 And where the ten are, there shal never lack a man among them
 who shal study the Law continualy, day and night, concerning the right
 conduct of a man with his companion. And the Congregation shal
 watch in community for a third of every night of the year, to read the
 Book and to study the Law and to bless together.
 This is the Rule for an Assembly of the Congregation
 Each man shal sit in his place: the Priests shal sit first, and the
 elders second, and al the rest of the people according to their rank.
 And thus shal they be questioned concerning the Law, and concerning
 any counsel or matter coming before the Congregation, each man
 bringing his knowledge to the Council of the Community.
 No man shal interrupt a companion before his speech has ended,
 nor speak before a man of higher rank; each man shal speak in his
 turn. And in an Assembly of the Congregation no man shal speak
 without the consent of the Congregation, nor indeed of the Guardian of
 the Congregation. Should any man wish to speak to the Congregation,
 yet not be in a position to question the Council of the Community, let
 him rise to his feet and say: ‘I have something to say to the
 Congregation.’ If they command him to speak, he shal speak.
 Every man, born of Israel, who freely pledges himself to join the
 Council of the Community shal be examined by the Guardian at the
 head of the Congregation concerning his understanding and his
 deeds. If he is fitted to the discipline, he shal admit him into the
 Covenant that he may be converted to the truth and depart from al
 injustice; and he shal instruct him in al the rules of the Community. And
 later, when he comes to stand before the Congregation, they shal al
 deliberate his case, and according to the decision of the Council of the
 Congregation he shal either enter or depart. After he has entered the
 Council of the Community he shal not touch the pure Meal of the
 Congregation until one {ful} (4Q256) year is completed, and until he
 has been examined concerning his spirit and deeds; nor shal he have
 any share of the property of the Congregation. Then when he has
completed one year within the Community, the Congregation shal
 deliberate his case with regard to his understanding and observance
 of the Law. And if it be his destiny, according to the judgement of the
 Priests and the multitude of the men of their Covenant, to enter the
 company of the Community, his property and earnings shal be handed
 over to the Bursar of the Congregation who shal register it to his
 account and shal not spend it for the Congregation. He shal not touch
 the Drink of the Congregation until he has completed a second year
 among the men of the Community. But when the second year has
 passed, he shal be examined, and if it be his destiny, according to the
 judgement of the Congregation, to enter the Community, then he shal
 be inscribed among his brethren in the order of his rank for the Law,
 and for justice, and for the pure Meal; his property shal be merged and
 he shal offer his counsel and judgement to the Community.
 These are the Rules by which they shall judge at a Community
 (Court of) Inquiry according to the cases
 If one of them has lied deliberately in matters of property, he shal be
 excluded from the pure Meal of the Congregation for one year and
 shal do penance with respect to one quarter of his food.
 Whoever has answered his companion with obstinacy, or has
 addressed him impatiently, going so far as to take no account of the
 dignity of his felow by disobeying the order of a brother inscribed
 before him, he has taken the law into his own hand; therefore he shal
 do penance for one year [and shal be excluded].
 If any man has uttered the [Most] Venerable Name VI even though
 frivolously, or as a result of shock or for any other reason whatever,
 while reading the Book or blessing, he shal be dismissed and shal
 return to the Council of the Community no more.
 If he has spoken in anger against one of the Priests inscribed in the
 Book, he shal do penance for one year and shal be excluded for his
 soul’s sake from the pure Meal of the Congregation. But if he has
 spoken unwittingly, he shal do penance for six months.
 Whoever has deliberately lied shal do penance for six months.
Whoever has deliberately insulted his companion unjustly shal do
 penance for one year and shal be excluded.
 Whoever has deliberately deceived his companion by word or by
 deed shal do penance for six months.
 If he has failed to care for his companion, he shal do penance for
 three months. But if he has failed to care for the property of the
 Community, thereby causing its loss, he shal restore it in ful. And if he
 be unable to restore it, he shal do penance for sixty days.
 Whoever has borne malice against his companion unjustly shal do
 penance for six months/one year; and likewise, whoever has taken
 revenge in any matter whatever.
 Whoever has spoken foolishly: three months.
 Whoever has interrupted his companion whilst speaking: ten days.
 Whoever has lain down to sleep during an Assembly of the
 Congregation : thirty days. And likewise, whoever has left, without
 reason, an Assembly of the Congregation as many as three times
 during one Assembly, shal do penance for ten days. But if he has
 departed whilst they were standing he shal do penance for thirty days.
 Whoever has gone naked before his companion, without having
 been obliged to do so, he shal do penance for six months.
 Whoever has spat in an Assembly of the Congregation shal do
 penance for thirty days.
 Whoever has been so poorly dressed that when drawing his hand
 from beneath his garment his nakedness has been seen, he shal do
 penance for thirty days.
 Whoever has guffawed foolishly shal do penance for thirty days.
 Whoever has drawn out his left hand to gesticulate with it shal do
 penance for ten days.
 Whoever has gone about slandering his companion shal be
 excluded from the pure Meal of the Congregation for one year and
 shal do penance. But whoever has slandered the Congregation shal
 be expeled from among them and shal return no more.
 Whoever has murmured against the authority of the Community shal
 be expeled and shal not return. But if he has murmured against his
 companion unjustly, he shal do penance for six months.
 Should a man return whose spirit has so trembled before the
authority of the Community that he has betrayed the truth and walked in
 the stubbornness of his heart, he shal do penance for two years.
 During the first year he shal not touch the pure Meal of the
 Congregation, and during the second year he shal not touch the Drink
 of the Congregation and shal sit below al the men of the Community.
 Then when his two years are completed, the Congregation shal
 consider his case, and if he is admitted he shal be inscribed in his
 rank and may then question concerning the Law.
 If, after being in the Council of the Community for ten ful years, the
 spirit of any man has failed, so that he has betrayed the Community
 and departed from the Congregation to walk in the stubbornness of his
 heart, he shal return no more to the Council of the Community.
 Moreover, if any member of the Community has shared with him his
 food or property which ... of the Congregation, his sentence shal be
 the same; he shal be ex[peled].
 V I In the Council of the Community there shal be twelve men and
 three Priests, perfectly versed in a l that is revealed of the Law, whose
 works shal be truth, righteousness, justice, loving-kindness and
 humility. They shal preserve the faith in the Land with steadfastness
 and meekness and shal atone for sin by the practice of justice and by
 suffering the sorrows of affliction. They shal walk with al men
 according to the standard of truth and the rule of the time.
 When these are in Israel, the Council of the Community shal be
 established in truth. It sha l be an Everlasting Plantation, a House of
 Holiness for Israel, an Assembly of Supreme Holiness for Aaron. They
 shal be witnesses to the truth at the Judgement, and shal be the elect
 of Goodwil who shal atone for the Land and pay to the wicked their
 reward. It shal be that tried wal, that precious corner-stone, whose
 foundations shal neither rock nor sway in their place (Isa. xxviii, 16). It
 shal be a Most Holy Dweling for Aaron, with everlasting knowledge of
 the Covenant of justice, and shal offer up sweet fragrance. It shal be a
 House of Perfection and Truth in Israel that they may establish a
 Covenant according to the everlasting precepts. And they shal be an
 agreeable offering, atoning for the Land and determining the
 judgement of wickedness, and there shal be no more iniquity. When
they have been confirmed for two years in perfection of way in the
 Foundation of the Community, they shal be set apart as holy within the
 Council of the men of the Community. And the Interpreter shal not
 conceal from them, out of fear of the spirit of apostasy, any of those
 things hidden from Israel which have been discovered by him.
 And when these become members of the Community in Israel
 according to al these rules, they shal separate from the habitation of
 unjust men and shal go into the wilderness to prepare there the way of
 Him; as it is written, Prepare in the wilderness the way of . , make
 straight in the desert a path for our God (Isa. xl, 3). This (path) is the
 study of the Law which He commanded by the hand of Moses, that they
 may do according to al that has been revealed from age to age, and
 as the Prophets have revealed by His Holy Spirit.
 And no man among the members of the Covenant of the Community
 who deliberately, on any point whatever, turns aside from al that is
 commanded, shal touch the pure Meal of the men of holiness or know
 anything of their counsel until his deeds are purified from al injustice
 and he walks in perfection of way. And then, according to the
 judgement of the Congregation, he shal be admitted to the Council
 and shal be inscribed in his rank. This rule shal apply to whoever
 enters the Community.
 And these are the rules which the men of perfect holiness shall
 follow in their commerce with one another
 Every man who enters the Council of Holiness, (the Council of those)
 who walk in the way of perfection as commanded by God, and who
 deliberately or through negligence transgresses one word of the Law
 of Moses, on any point whatever, shal be expeled from the Council of
 the Community and shal return no more; no man of holiness shal be
 associated in his property or counsel in any matter at al. But if he has
 acted inadvertently, he shal be excluded from the pure Meal and the
 Council and they shal interpret the rule (as folows). For two years he
 shal take no part in judgement or ask for counsel; but if, during that
 time, his way becomes perfect, {then he shal return) (4Q258) to the
(Court of) Inquiry and the Council, in accordance with the judgement of
 the Congregation, provided that he commit no further inadvertent sin
 during two ful years. IX For one sin of inadvertence (alone) he shal do
 penance for two years. But as for him who has sinned deliberately, he
 shal never return; only the man who has sinned inadvertently shal be
 tried for two years, that his way and counsel may be made perfect
 according to the judgement of the Congregation. And afterwards, he
 shal be inscribed in his rank in the Community of Holiness.
 When these become members of the Community in Israel according
 to al these rules, they shal establish the spirit of holiness according to
 everlasting truth. They shal atone for guilty rebelion and for sins of
 unfaithfulness, that they may obtain loving-kindness for the Land
 without the flesh of holocausts and the fat of sacrifice. And prayer
 rightly offered sha l be as an acceptable fragrance of righteousness,
 and perfection of way as a delectable free-wi l offering. At that time, the
 men of the Community shal set apart a House of Holiness in order that
 it may be united to the most holy things and a House of Community for
 Israel, for those who walk in perfection. The sons of Aaron alone shal
 command in matters of justice and property, and every rule concerning
 the men of the Community shal be determined according to their word.
 As for the property of the men of holiness who walk in perfection, it
 shal not be merged with that of the men of injustice who have not
 purified their life by separating themselves from iniquity and walking in
 the way of perfection. They shal depart from none of the counsels of
 the Law to walk in al the stubbornness of their hearts, but shal be ruled
 by the primitive precepts in which the men of the Community were first
 instructed until there shal come the Prophet and the Messiahs of
 Aaron and Israel.
 These are the precepts in which the Master shall walk in His
 commerce with all the living, according to the rule proper to
 every season and according to the worth of every man
 He shal do the wil of God according to al that has been revealed
 from age to age.
He shal measure out al knowledge discovered throughout the ages,
 together with the Precept of the age.
 He shal separate and weigh the sons of righteousness according to
 their spirit.
 He shal hold firmly to the elect of the time according to His wi l, as
 He has commanded.
 He shal judge every man according to his spirit. He shal admit him
 in accordance with the cleanness of his hands and advance him in
 accordance with his understanding. And he shal love and hate
 likewise.
 He shal not rebuke the men of the Pit nor dispute with them.
 He shal conceal the teaching of the Law from men of injustice, but
 shal impart true knowledge and righteous judgement to those who
 have chosen the Way. He shal guide them al in knowledge according
 to the spirit of each and according to the rule of the age, and shal thus
 instruct them in the mysteries of marvelous truth, so that in the midst of
 the men of the Community they may walk perfectly together in al that
 has been revealed to them. This is the time for the preparation of the
 way into the wilderness, and he shal teach them to do al that is
 required at that time and to separate from al those who have not
 turned aside from al injustice.
 These are the rules of conduct for the Master in those times with
 respect to His loving and hating
 Everlasting hatred in a spirit of secrecy for the men of perdition! He
 shal leave to them wealth and earnings like a slave to his lord and like
 a poor man to his master.
 He shal be a man zealous for the Precept whose time is for the Day
 of Revenge. He shal perform the wil of God in al his deeds, and in al
 his dominion as He has commanded. He shal freely delight in al that
 befa ls him and nothing shal please him save God’s wil. He shal
 delight in al the words of His mouth and shal desire nothing except
 His command. He shal watch always [for] the judgement of God, and
 shal bless his Maker [for al His goodness] and declare [His mercies]
in al that befals.
 He shal bless Him [with the offering] of the lips X at the times
 ordained by Him: at the beginning of the dominion of light, and at its
 end when it retires to its appointed place; at the beginning of the
 watches of darkness when He unlocks their storehouse and spreads
 them out, and also at their end when they retire before the light; when
 the heavenly lights shine out from the dweling-place of Holiness, and
 also when they retire to the place of Glory; at the entry of the (monthly)
 seasons on the days of the new moon, and also at their end when they
 succeed to one another. Their renewal is a great day for the Holy of
 Holies, and a sign for the unlocking of everlasting mercies at the
 beginning of seasons in al times to come.
 At the beginning of the months of the (yearly) seasons 
and on the holy days appointed for remembrance, 
in their seasons I wi l bless Him 
with the offering of the lips 
according to the Precept engraved for ever: 
at the beginning of the years 
and at the end of their seasons 
when their appointed law is fulfi led, 
on the day decreed by Him 
that they should pass from one to the other
the season of early harvest to the summer time, 
the season of sowing to the season of grass, 
the seasons of years to their weeks (of years)
and at the beginning of their weeks 
for the season of Jubilee. 
Al my life the engraved Precept shal be on my tongue 
as the fruit of praise 
and the portion of my lips.
 I wi l sing with knowledge and al my music 
shal be for the glory of God. 
(My) lyre (and) my harp shal sound 
for His holy order 
and I wi l tune the pipe of my lips 
to His right measure. 
With the coming of day and night 
I wi l enter the Covenant of God, 
and when evening and morning depart 
I wi l recite His decrees. 
I wi l place in them my bounds without return.
 I wi l declare His judgement concerning my sins, 
and my transgressions shal be before my eyes 
as an engraved Precept. 
I wi l say to God, ‘My Righteousness’ 
and ‘Author of my Goodness’ to the Most High, 
‘Fountain of Knowledge’ and ‘Source of Holiness’, 
‘Summit of Glory’ and ‘Almighty Eternal Majesty’. 
I wi l choose that which He teaches me 
and wil delight in His judgement of me.
 Before I move my hands and feet 
I wi l bless His Name. 
I wi l praise Him before I go out or enter, 
or sit or rise, 
and whilst I lie on the couch of my bed. 
I wi l bless Him with the offering 
of that which proceeds from my lips 
from the midst of the ranks of men, 
and before I lift my hands to eat 
of the pleasant fruits of the earth. 
I wi l bless Him for His exceeding wonderful deeds 
at the beginning of fear and dread 
and in the abode of distress and desolation. 
I wi l meditate on His power 
and wil lean on His mercies al day long. 
I know that judgement of al the living 
is in His hand, 
and that al His deeds are truth. 
I wi l praise Him when distress is unleashed 
and wil magnify Him also because of His salvation.
 I wi l pay to no man the reward of evil; 
I wi l pursue him with goodness. 
For judgement of al the living is with God 
and it is He who wil render to man his reward. 
I wi l not envy in a spirit of wickedness, 
my soul shal not desire the riches of violence. 
I wi l not grapple with the men of perdition 
until the Day of Revenge, 
but my wrath shal not turn from the men of falsehood 
and I wi l not rejoice until judgement is made. 
I wi l bear no rancour 
against them that turn from transgression, 
but wi l have no pity 
on al who depart from the way. 
I wi l offer no comfort to the smitten 
until their way becomes perfect.
 I wi l not keep Belial within my heart, 
and in my mouth shal be heard 
no foly or sinful deceit, 
no cunning or lies shal be found on my lips. 
The fruit of holiness sha l be on my tongue 
and no abominations shal be found upon it. 
I wi l open my mouth 
in songs of thanksgiving, 
and my tongue shal always proclaim 
the goodness of God and the sin of men 
until their transgression ends. 
I wi l cause vanities 
to cease from my lips, 
uncleanness and crookedness 
from the knowledge of my heart.
 I wi l impart/conceal knowledge with discretion 
and wil prudently hedge it within a firm bound 
to preserve faith and strong judgement 
in accordance with the justice of God. 
I wi l distribute the Precept 
by the measuring-cord of the times, 
and ... righteousness 
and loving-kindness towards the oppressed, 
encouragement to the troubled heart 
XI and discernment to the erring spirit, 
teaching understanding to them that murmur 
that they may answer meekly 
before the haughty of spirit 
and humbly before men of injustice 
who point the finger and speak of iniquity 
and who are zealous for wealth.
 As for me, 
my justification is with God. 
In His hand are the perfection of my way 
and the uprightness of my heart. 
He wil wipe out my transgression 
through His righteousness.
 For my light has sprung 
from the source of His knowledge; 
my eyes have beheld His marvelous deeds, 
and the light of my heart, the mystery to come. 
He that is everlasting 
is the support of my right hand; 
the way of my steps is over stout rock 
which nothing shal shake; 
for the rock of my steps is the truth of God 
and His might is the support of my right hand.
 From the source of His righteousness 
is my justification, 
and from His marvelous mysteries 
is the light in my heart. 
My eyes have gazed 
on that which is eternal, 
on wisdom concealed from men, 
on knowledge and wise design 
(hidden) from the sons of men; 
on a fountain of righteousness 
and on a storehouse of power, 
on a spring of glory 
(hidden) from the assembly of flesh. 
God has given them to His chosen ones 
as an everlasting possession, 
and has caused them to inherit 
the lot of the Holy Ones. 
He has joined their assembly 
to the Sons of Heaven 
to be a Council of the Community, 
a foundation of the Building of Holiness, 
and eternal Plantation throughout a l ages to come.
 As for me, 
I belong to wicked mankind, 
to the company of unjust flesh. 
My iniquities, rebe lions, and sins, 
together with the perversity of my heart, 
belong to the company of worms 
and to those who walk in darkness. 
For mankind has no way, 
and man is unable to establish his steps 
since justification is with God 
and perfection of way is out of His hand. 
Al things come to pass by His knowledge; 
He establishes al things by His design 
and without Him nothing is done.
As for me, 
if I stumble, the mercies of God 
shal be my eternal salvation. 
If I stagger because of the sin of flesh, 
my justification sha l be 
by the righteousness of God which endures for ever. 
When my distress is unleashed 
He wil deliver my soul from the Pit 
and wil direct my steps to the way. 
He wil draw me near by His grace, 
and by His mercy wil He bring my justification. 
He wil judge me in the righteousness of His truth 
and in the greatness of His goodness 
He wil pardon al my sins. 
Through His righteousness he wi l cleanse me 
of the uncleanness of man 
and of the sins of the children of men, 
that I may confess to God His righteousness, 
and His majesty to the Most High.
 Blessed art Thou, my God, 
who openest the heart of Thy servant to knowledge! 
Establish a l his deeds in righteousness, 
and as it pleases Thee to do for the elect of mankind, 
grant that the son of Thy handmaid 
may stand before Thee for ever.
 For without Thee no way is perfect, 
and without Thy wi l nothing is done. 
It is Thou who hast taught al knowledge 
and al things come to pass by Thy wil. 
There is none beside Thee to dispute Thy counsel 
or to understand al Thy holy design, 
or to contemplate the depth of Thy mysteries 
and the power of Thy might.
Who can endure Thy glory, 
and what is the son of man 
in the midst of Thy wonderful deeds? 
What shal one born of woman 
be accounted before Thee? 
Kneaded from the dust, 
his abode is the nourishment of worms. 
He is but a shape, but moulded clay, 
and inclines towards dust. 
What shal hand-moulded clay reply? 
What counsel shal it understand?
Community Rule manuscripts from Cave 4
 4QSd=4Q258
 This‘is the best preserved of the ten 4QS manuscripts. Seven columns
 of the text have survived, five of them containing ful-length lines.
 Column 1, with a wide margin on the right, is almost certainly the
 beginning of the Scrol. It corresponds to 1QS v, 1. The last identifiable
 passage represents 1QS XI, 7. The word ‘God’ (‘el) is written twice
 with palaeo-Hebrew letters (at 1QS IX, 25 and x, 9). Columns I and I of
 Sd (1QS v, I-VI, 7) provide a shorter and smoother version of the Rule
 than 1QS. The more fragmentary 4QSb (=4Q256) supports the present
 version on the essential points. The most significant peculiarities of
 4QSd (=4Q258) are the almost complete absence of the ‘ful’ speling
 characteristic of the Qumran sectarian manuscripts, the different
 opening line and a repeated failure to mention ‘the Priests, the Sons of
 Zadok’. For both its occurrences in 1QS, 4QSd (and 4QSb) read ‘the
 Congregation’ (ha-rabbim), an alternative reading likely to possess
 important historical implications.
 For the editio princeps, see P. S. Alexander and G. Vermes, DJD,
 XXVI, 83-128. See also G. Vermes, ‘The Leadership of the Qumran
 Community: Sons of Zadok - Priests - Congregation’, in the Martin
 Hengel Festschrift Geschichte-Tradition-Reflexion, ed. P. Schäfer
 (Tübingen, 1996), 375-84.
 I (=1QS v, I-20) Teaching for the Master concerning the men of the Law
 (or: the Master who is the superior of the men of the Law) who have
 freely pledged themselves to convert from al evil and hold fast to al
 that He has commanded. And they shal separate from the
 congregation of the men of injustice and shal unite with respect to
 doctrine and property, and they shal be under the authority of the
Congregation concerning al matters of doctrine and property. They
 shal practise humility and righteousness and justice and loving
[kindness] and modesty in al their ways. And no man shal walk in the
 stubbornness of his heart so as to stray. He is rather to lay [a
 foundation] of truth for Israel for the Community, for a l those who have
 freely pledged themselves to Holiness in Aaron and to a House of
 Truth in Israel and for those who jo[in th]em for a Community. Whoever
 enters the Council [of the Commu]nity shal undertake by binding (oath)
 to [return t]o the Law of Moses with al (his) heart and soul, to al that
 has been revealed from the L[aw].
 [And whoever enters] the Council of the me[n] of the Communi[ty
 shal separate from al the men] of injustice... He shal not touch the
 purity of the men [of holine]ss and shal not eat with (them) [in
 community. And no] one of the men of the Community [shal folow] their
 decision in any [doctrine] and judgement. And ... of work. No one from
 the men of holiness shal eat ... [And] they shal not lean upon [work]s of
 vanity, for they are al vanity who [do not know His Covenant and al
 who despis]e His word He wil blot them out from the world. Al their
 deeds are defileme[nt] be[fore Him and al]l [their property unclean.] ...
 Gentiles(?) and they pronounce oaths and execrations and vows. [But
 when a man enters the Covenant according to al these precepts, that
 he may be joined to the h]oly [Congregation,] they [shal examine their
 spirit 
in community,] am[ong themselves] con[cerning their
 understanding] I (1QS v, 21-VI, 7) and their practice of the Law under
 the authority of the sons of Aaron who have freely pledged themselves
 to restore His Covenant and heed to al the precepts commanded by
 Him to be practised by the multitude of Israel who have freely pledged
 themselves to return in common. They shal be inscribed in the order,
 one after another, each according to his understanding and his deeds
 in the Law, that al may obey one another, the man of lesser rank the
 greater. And they shal examine their spirit and their deeds in the Law
 yearly so that each man may be advanced in accordance with [his]
 un[derstanding] or moved down in accordance with his aberrations.
 They shal rebuke one another (in) loving-kindness. Let no man
 address his companion with anger or il-temper or wicked envy. Also
 let no man accuse his companion before the Congregation without
having rebuked him before witnesses. These are the ways in which al
 of them shal walk, each man with his companion, wherever they dwel.
 [The man of lesser rank] shal ob[ey] the greater in matters of work and
 pro[perty. And they shal e]at [in common] and bless in common and
 delibera[te] in common. [And wherever there are ten] I (1QS VI, 7-10)
 men of [the Council of the Community, there shal not lack] a pri[est
 from a]mong them. [And] they [shal sit, each m]an according to his
 rank, [before him and shal be asked their counsel in al things in that
 order.] And when [the table has been prepared for eating or the n]ew
 wine [for drinking, the] priest shal [be first to stretch out his hand to
 bless the firstfruit of the bread] and of the wine. [And where the ten are,
 there shal never lack a man among them who shal study the Law day
 and night. And the Congregation shal w]atch [for one third of every
 night of the year, to read the Book] IV . V (IS VI, 13) ... [and whoever
 draws] his hand from be[neath his garment] ... VI (1QS V I, 6-21) ...
 [and] to pay to the wicked [their reward. It shal be a tried wal, that
 precious corner-stone whose foundations shal not rock nor sway from]
 their [pl]ace; (it sha l be) a most holy dweling-place [for Aaron, with the
 knowledge of them al of a covenant of justice and of the offering of
 fragrance; (it sha l be) a house of perfection and truth for Israe]l to
 establish a covenant according to the everlasting precepts.
 [They shal be an acceptance to atone for the land and to determine
 the judgement of wickedness with no injustice (any more). When these
 have been confirmed in the fou]ndation of the Community for two
 years, [in perfection of way, they shal be separated as holy within the
 council of the men] of the Communi[ty. And anything hidden from Is]rael
 but discovered by the man [who interprets, he shal not conceal it from
 them for fear of the spirit of apostasy.] And when these become (part
 of) the Community/in Israel, they shal separate fr[om the midst of the
 habitation] of the men [of injustice to go into the wilderness to prepare
 there the way of HIM (or: {the truth} (4Q259). This is the study of the
 La]w which He has commanded by the ha[nd of Moses, to pra]ctise al
 [that has been revealed from age to age, and as the prophets have
 revealed by His holy spirit. And no ma]n from the men of the covenant
 of the [Community who turns aside from any commandment
 deliberately sha l touch the purity of the men of holiness, nor shal he
know any of their counsel until his deeds are purified from al injustice
 so that he walks in perfection of way. And they shal admit him to the
 council by the decision of the Congregation and afterwards he shal be
 inscribed in his rank. And this rule (shal apply) to everyone who
 attaches himself] to the Community. [And these are the rules which the
 men of holiness shal folow, one regarding another.] Everyone who
 [enters the council of the Community] ... V I (1QS VI, 24-IX, 10, 15) ...
 they shal exclude him from purity and from council and from judgement
 for tw[o year]s and he shal return to study and to council if he has not
 committed again a sin by inadvertence for two ful years. For one sin of
 inadvertence he shal do penance for two years, and for a deliberately
 committed sin he shal return no more. But he shal be tried for two
 [y]ears concerning the perfection of his way and for his counsel
 according to the decision of the Congregation and he shal be
 inscribed in his rank in the Community of holiness. [When] these
 [become part] of the Community in Israel according to these rules, they
 shal [es]tablish the spirit of holiness as eternal truth. They sha l atone
 for guilty rebe lion [and the sin of unfaithful]ness and sha l gain (divine)
 acceptance for the lan[d without the flesh] of holocausts and the fat of
 sacrifices and offerings. And the cor[r]ect free-wi l gift of the lips sha l
 be like a fragrance [of righteousness and the perfection] of the way like
 the free-wi l offerin[g of a]greeable [tribute]. And at that time they sha l
 separate a house of Aaron for holiness for al [ ] of God [and a house of
 Community for Is]rael who walk in perfe[ction. Only the sons of Aa]ron
 [sha l comm]a[nd in matters of ju]stice and property. And the property
 [of the men of holiness who wa]lk in perfection, let [their property] not
 be mer[ged with] the property [of the men of falsehood] who have not
 confir[med their way to separate from al] e[vil things] so as to walk in
 [the way of perfection. Let them not depart from any counsel of the
 Law] and they shal be judged by the [primitive precepts in which the
 men of the Community began to be instructed. He shal perform the
 judgement of every man according to his spirit and he shal admit him
 according to the cleanness of his hands] V I (1QS IX, 15-x, 3) and
 shal advance him according to his understanding, and so shal be his
 love and his hatred. Furthermore he shal not rebuke a man and shal
 not dispute with the men of the pit. He shal conceal his counsel among
the men of injustice, but he shal impart true knowledge and righteous
 judgement to those who have chosen the way, to each according to his
 spirit and according to the rule of the age, [guiding the]m with
 knowledge. And thus shal he instruct them in the mysteries of marvel
 and truth among the men of the Community that they may walk in
 perfection each man with [his felow in al that has been] revealed to
 them. This is the time for the preparation of the way into the
 wilderness. He shal instruct them in al that is to be done in that time.
 [And he shal separate] from every man who has not turned away
 from al injustice. And these are the rules of conduct for the Master in
 [those] ti[mes] [with respect to his loving and] hating. Everlasting hatred
 for the men of the pit in a spirit of secrecy. He shal leave to them
 property and gain [and the earnings of toil like a slave to] his [lo]rd and
 the poor man to his master. Each shal be zealous for the precept and
 his time shal become a day [of revenge.] He shal [perform the wil (of
 God) in al his actions and in al]l his dominion a[s He has commanded.
 And a]l that befals him, he shal enjoy as a free gift and without the wi l
 [of GOD] [he shal not enjoy (anything). He shal delight in al the words
 of His mouth and shal desire nothing that He has] n[ot commanded.
 And] he shal watch al[ways for the judgemen]t of GOD [ ] and he shal
 bless his Maker and in al that befals he shal declare [ ] and with the
 offering of the lips he shal bless Him at [the times which He has
 decreed. At the beginning of the dominion of light a]nd the c[ompletion
 of its circuit when it ret]ires to [its] appointed dwe ling at the beginning
 [of the watches of darkness. When He opens its storehouse and
 spreads it out and at the completion of its circuit when it retires bef]ore
 the light. When [the heavenly lights] shine out [from the a]bode [of His
 holiness together with their withdrawal to the dweling of glory. At the
 entry of seasons according to the new moon as wel as their
 completion of their circuit when one succeeds to the other]; IX (1QS x,
 4-12) at their renewal there is a great day for the Holy of Holies and a
 sign for the opening of the everlasting mercies at the beginning of the
 seasons for al ages to come. At the beginning of the months for their
 seasons and on the holy days according to their rules for
 remembrance in [their] seasons, I wi l bless Him [with the offering of the
 l]ips according to the precept [en]graved for ever. At the beginning of
the years and at the completion of the circ[uit of their seasons, when
 they ful]fil their determined precept on the day decreed for one to folow
 another, the seas[on of early harvest the summer, and the season of
 so]wing the season of grass, the seasons of the ye[ar]s thei[r] weeks
 [and at the beginning of] their weeks the seasons of jubilee. And during
 al my existence the [en]graved precept shal be on [my tongue as a
 fruit] of praise and a po[rtion] of my lips. I wi l sin[g] with knowledge and
 al my music is for the glory of GOD. [And I wil] strike my lyre to the
 order [of His holiness and the pipe of my lips I wil] tune to [His r]ight
 measure. [At the coming] of the day [and the n]ight I wil enter the
 covenant [of GOD and at the departure of evening and morning I wil
 recite His precepts. And in them wil I re-establish [my boundaries
 without return. I wi l declare His judgement correct concerning] my
 [trans]gression [and] my [rebel]lion sha l be before my eyes [as an
 engraved precept. And I say to GOD, ‘My righteousness’ and to the
 Most High, ‘A]uthor of my goodness’, ‘Fountain of Knowledge’ and
 ‘Source of Holiness’, ‘Summit of Glory’ and ‘Almighty Eternal Majesty’.
 I wi l choose] X (1QS x, 12-18) that which He teaches [me and I wil
 delight in His judgement of me. Before I move my hands] and feet I wil
 bless [His name and before I lift my hand to grow fat from] the pleasant
 pro[duce of the world. At the beginning of fear and dread and in the
 abode of distress] a[nd desolation, I wi l confess (His) marvel and I wi l
 meditate on His might and on His mercies] I wil lea[n al day long. I
 know that in His hand is the judgement of al the living and al His
 deeds are truth.] When [distress] sta[rts I wi l praise Him and I wi l exalt
 Him for His salvation. And I wi l not pay] an [evil] reward [to a man; I wi l
 pursue him with goodness. For the judgement of al the living is with
 GOD, and He] wil repay [man his reward ... ] XI ... X I (1QS XI, 7) ...
 [and He has caused] them [to inher]it the l[ot of the Holy Ones] ... X I
 (1QS XI, 14-15) ... [He wil a]tone [for al] my sins. [Through His
 righteousness He wi l cleanse me of the uncleanness of man and from
 the sins of the child]ren of m[en that I may confess to God] His
 righ[teousness] ...
4QSe=4Q259
 Three fragmentary columns of a leather scrol contain damaged
 sections of 1QS VI-IX. The text translated comes from columns I and I
 and represents an important doctrinal section of 1QS (V I, 4-IX, I) in an
 abridged form. Not only are some of the interlinear additions to 1QS
 absent, suggesting their later editorial nature, but 4QSe (4Q259) jumps
 from 1QS V I, 15 to IX, 12, thus omitting among other things the
 mention of the ‘Prophet and the Messiahs of Aaron and Israel’ (1QS
 IX, I). It would seem that the copyist of this manuscript substituted
 4Q319 (the calendric document of Otot) for the text corresponding to
 1QS X-XI.
 For the editio princeps, see P. S. Alexander and G. Vermes, DJD,
 XXVI, 129-52.
 I (1QS VI, 20-V I, 10) ... And when [he has] comple[ted] [two years,
 the Congregation shal consider his case and he shal be inscribed in]
 his [ran]k and afterwards he may question [concerning the law. And
 anyone who has been in the Co]uncil of the Community until he has
 completed [ten years, and then his spirit turned back so that he has
 betrayed the Community and has departed from] the Congregation to
 walk [in the stubbornness of his heart, he shal return no more to the
 Council of the Community. And any of the m]en of the Community who
 [has shared with him his purity or his property], his sentence shal be
 [like his: he shal be expeled. In the Council of the Community there
 shal be twelve m]en [and] three priests, [perfect in al that has been
 revealed from the whole Law to practise] truth, righteousness and
 justice [loving-kindness and modesty towards one another. They shal
 preserve f]aith in the land with steadfastness and with humility [and a
 bro]ken [spirit.] And they shal atone for in[iquity by the practice of
 justice and the distress of te]sting. They shal walk with al men[ by the
 standard] of truth, by the rule [of the time. When these are in] Israel, the
 Council of the Community shal be established [to be an] ever[lasting
 plantation, a House of Holiness for Israel and an Assembly] of
Supreme Holiness for Aaron. They shal be witnesses of the truth at the
 Judgement, and shal be the elect of good [wi l who atone for] the Lan[d
 and pay] to the wicked their reward. It shal be the tried wal, [that
 precious] cor[ner-stone. They shal] ne[ither rock, no]r sway from their
 place (Isa. xxviii, 16). It sha l be a m[ost] Holy Dweling for Aar[on f]or a
 Covenan[t of justice to offer up sweet] fragrance. It shal be a House of
 Perfection and Truth in [Israel that they may establish a Covenant
 according to the everlast]ing [precepts.] When they have been
 confirmed I (IQS V I, 11-15; IX, 12 ...) [for two years in the perfection
 of way in the Foundation of the Community, they shal be set apart] as
 holy within the Council of the men [of the Community. And] the
 interpreter sha l not con[c]eal [from them, out of fear of the spirit of
 apostasy, any of those things hidden from Israel which have been
 discover]ed by him. [And when] these shal become the Community,
 they shal separate fro[m the habit]ation [of unjust men and shal] go
 into the wil[derness to prepare there th]e way of the Truth; a[s] it is
 written, [In the wildernes]s pr[epare the way of . (?), make strai]ght in
 the desert a path for our God (Isa. xl, 3). This (path) is [the study of the
 Law which] He commanded by the hand of Moses. (The manuscript
 omits the section corresponding to 1QS V I, 15b to ix, 11, and
 continues with ix, 12 on the same line.) These are the pre[cepts in
 which] the Mas[ter shal walk] in his commerce with al the living,
 according to the rule proper to every season and according to the
 wort[h of every man].
Entry into the Covenant
 (4Q275)
 Previously caled 4QTohorot Ba, this tiny fragment represents a
 document describing the entry into the Covenant, known from the
 Community Rule (1QS), and aludes to a festival in the third month, i.e.
 the Feast of Weeks of Pentecost, when according to one of the Cave
 4 manuscripts of the Damascus Document (4Q266) the Qumran
 Covenant renewal took place.
 For the editio princeps, see P. S. Alexander and G. Vermes, DJD,
 XXVI, 200—16.
 [And the Guardian wil come] and the elders with him until... and they
 shal enter by genealogy... And the Guardian shal [curse (the
 unrepentant), saying ‘Be damned without] mercy. [Let him be cur]sed
 ...’ And he wi l remove him] from his inheritance for ev[er] ... when he
 visits destruction ...
Four Classes of the Community
 (4Q279)
 Formerly known as 4QTohorot Da, this fragment is one of three smal
 scraps which have partly preserved the division of the Community into
 four lots or classes, already known from CD XIV, 5-6, viz. Priests,
 Levites, Israelites and Proselytes.
 For the editio princeps, see P. S. Alexander and G. Vermes, DJD,
 XXVI, 217-23.
 ... [The first] lot belongs [to the Pries]ts, the sons of Aaron [and the
 second lot to the Levites ranked in order] each according to his spirit.
 And the [third] lo[t wi l belong to the children of Israel in order each
 according to his spirit. And] the fourth lot wi l belong to the Prosely[tes]
 ...
The Damascus Document
 (CD, 4Q265-73, 5Q12, 6Q15)
 Extensive fragments of the Damascus Document have been
 recovered from three of the Qumran caves (4Q265-73, 5Q12=CD IX,
 7-10, 6Q15=CD IV, 19-21, V, 13-14, v, I-VI, 2, VI, 20-VI, I plus a text
 unparaleled in CD), but two incomplete medieval copies of this
 document had been found already many years earlier, in 1896-7,
 amongst a mass of discarded manuscripts in a storeroom (genizah) of
 an old Cairo synagogue. Published in 1910 by S. Schechter
 (Fragments of a Zadokite Work, Cambridge), they were reprinted with
 a new Prolegomenon by J. A. Fitzmyer in 1970, re-edited by Chaim
 Rabin under the title The Zadokite Documents (Oxford, 1954) and in
 the light of the 4Q fragments by M. Broshi, The Damascus Document
 Reconsidered, Jerusalem, 1992. Cf. also J. M. Baumgarten et al. in J.
 H. Charlesworth et al., eds., The DSS I:Damascus Document .,
 1995, 4-79. For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XV I,
 1996.
 Dating from the tenth and twelfth centuries respectively, the
 manuscripts found in Cairo - Manuscript A and Manuscript B - raise a
 certain number of textual problems in that they present two different
 versions of the original composition. I have settled the difficulty as
 satisfactorily as I can by folowing Manuscript A, to which the 4Q
 fragments correspond, and by inserting the Manuscript B variants in
 brackets or footnotes. At a certain point, as the reader wil see,
 Manuscript A comes to an end and we then have to rely entirely on
 Manuscript B. Furthermore, two of the Cave 4 manuscripts (4Q266
 and 268) show that page 1 of the Cairo document was preceded by
 another section of which both the beginning and the end have survived.
 Also 4Q266 and 270 indicate that in antiquity the text corresponding to
 CD IX, 1 was preceded by CD XVI. In the translation I have therefore
rearranged the order of the pages and placed pages xv and XVI
 before page ix.
 The title ‘Damascus Document’ derives from the references in the
 Exhortation to the ‘New Covenant’ made ‘in the land of Damascus’.
 The significance of this phrase is discussed in Chapter I together with
 the chronological data included in the manuscript. They suggest that
 the document was written in about 100 BCE and this hypothesis is
 indirectly supported by the absence of any mention in the historical
 passages of the Kittim (Romans) whose invasion of the Orient did not
 take place until after 70 BCE.
 The work is divided into an Exhortation and a list of Statutes. In the
 Exhortation, the preacher - probably a Guardian of the Community 
addresses his ‘sons’ on the themes of the sect’s teaching, many of
 which appear also in the Community Rule. His aim is to encourage the
 sectaries to remain faithful, and with this end in view he sets out to
 demonstrate from the history of Israel and the Community that fidelity is
 always rewarded and apostasy chastised.
 During the course of his argument, the author of the Damascus
 Document frequently interprets biblical passages in a most
 unexpected way. I have mentioned one of these commentaries on the
 marriage laws in Chapter IV (pp. 69-70), but there is another intricate
 exposition of Amos v, 26-7 on p. 135 which may not be easy to
 understand.
 In the Bible these verses convey a divine threat: the Israelites were
 to take themselves and their idols into exile: ‘You shal take up Sakkuth
 your king and Kaiwan your star-god, your images which you made for
 yourselves, for I wi l take you into exile beyond Damascus.’ But the
 Damascus Document transforms this threat into a promise of
 salvation; by changing certain words in the biblical text and omitting
 others its version reads: ‘I wi l exile the tabernacle of your king and the
 bases of your statues from my tent to Damascus.’
 In this new text, the three key phrases are interpreted symbolicaly as
 fo lows: ‘tabernacle’ = ‘Books of the Law’; ‘king’ = ‘congregation’;
 ‘bases of statues’ = ‘Books of the Prophets’. Thus: ‘The Books of the
 Law are the tabernacle of the king; as God said, I wi l raise up the
 tabernacle of David which is fa len (Amos ix, 11). The king is the
congregation; and the bases of the statues are the Books of the
 Prophets whose sayings Israel despised.’
 The omission of any reference to the ‘star-god’ is made good by
 introducing a very different ‘Star’, the messianic ‘Interpreter of the Law’
 with his companion the ‘Prince of the congregation’. ‘The star is the
 Interpreter of the Law who shal come to Damascus; as it is written, A
 star sha l come forth out of Jacob and a sceptre shal rise out of
 Israel (Num. xxiv, 17). The sceptre is the Prince of the whole
 congregation...’
 The second part of the Damascus Document, the Statutes, consists
 of a colection of laws which mostly reflect a sectarian reinterpretation
 of the biblical commandments relative to vows and oaths, tribunals,
 purification, the Sabbath and the distinction between ritual purity and
 impurity. They are fo lowed by rules concerned with the institutions and
 organization of the Community. Some of the particular laws of the
 Damascus Rule appear also in the Temple Scrol (cf. p. 192).
 Whereas the Exhortation represents a literary genre adopted by
 both Jewish and Christian religious teachers (e.g. the Letter to the
 Hebrews), the methodical grouping of the Statutes prefigures that of
 the Mishnah, the oldest extant Jewish code.
 The Statutes as they appear in the Qumran fragments include the
 form of the ritual for the Feast of the Renewal of the Covenant, so it
 may be assumed that the entire Damascus Document was originaly
 connected with that festival. 4Q266, as wil be seen presently,
 specifies that it occurred in the third month, i.e. that it coincided with
 the Feast of Weeks, celebrated on the fifteenth day of the third month
 according to the sect’s calendar.
 The translation of those Cave 4 fragments which are additional to
 CD wil folow the presentation of the Cairo manuscripts.
 The Exhortation
 I Listen now
 74 al you who know righteousness, and consider the works
 of God; for He has a dispute with al flesh and wil condemn al those
who despise Him.
 For when they were unfaithful and forsook Him, He hid His face from
 Israel and His Sanctuary and delivered them up to the sword. But
 remembering the Covenant of the forefathers, He left a remnant to
 Israel and did not deliver it up to be destroyed. And in the age of wrath,
 three hundred and ninety years after He had given them into the hand
 of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, He visited them, and He caused
 a plant root to spring from Israel and Aaron to inherit His Land and to
 prosper on the good things of His earth. And they perceived their
 iniquity and recognized that they were guilty men, yet for twenty years
 they were like blind men groping for the way.
 And God observed their deeds, that they sought Him with a whole
 heart, and He raised for them a Teacher of Righteousness to guide
 them in the way of His heart. And he made known to the latter
 generations that which God had done to the latter generation, the
 congregation of traitors, to those who departed from the way. This was
 the time of which it is written, Like a stubborn heifer thus was Israel
 stubborn (Hos. iv. 16), when the Scoffer arose who shed over Israel
 the waters of lies. He caused them to wander in a pathless wilderness,
 laying low the everlasting heights, abolishing the ways of
 righteousness and removing the boundary with which the forefathers
 had marked out their inheritance, that he might cal down on them the
 curses of His Covenant and deliver them up to the avenging sword of
 the Covenant. For they sought smooth things and preferred ilusions
 (Isa. xxx, 10) and they watched for breaks (Isa. xxx, 13) and chose the
 fair neck; and they justified the wicked and condemned the just, and
 they transgressed the Covenant and violated the Precept. They
 banded together against the life of the righteous (Ps. xciv, 21) and
 loathed al who walked in perfection; they pursued them with the sword
 and exulted in the strife of the people. And the anger of God was
 kindled against I their congregation so that He ravaged al their
 multitude; and their deeds were defilement before Him.
 Hear now, al you who enter the Covenant, and I wil unstop your ears
 concerning the ways of the wicked.
 75
 God loves knowledge. Wisdom and understanding He has set
 before Him, and prudence and knowledge serve Him. Patience and
much forgiveness are with Him towards those who turn from
 transgression; but power, might, and great flaming wrath by the hand of
 al the Angels of Destruction towards those who depart from the way
 and abhor the Precept. They shal have no remnant or survivor. For
 from the beginning God chose them not; He knew their deeds before
 ever they were created and He hated their generations, and He hid His
 face from the Land until they were consumed. For He knew the years
 of their coming and the length and exact duration of their times for al
 ages to come and throughout eternity. He knew the happenings of their
 times throughout al the everlasting years. And in al of them He raised
 for Himself men caled by name
 76 that a remnant might be left to the
 Land, and that the face of the earth might be fi led with their seed. And
 He made known His Holy Spirit to them by the hand of His anointed
 ones, and He proclaimed the truth (to them). But those whom He hated
 He led astray.
 Hear now, my sons, and I wil uncover your eyes that you may see
 and understand the works of God, that you may choose that which
 pleases Him and reject that which He hates, that you may walk
 perfectly in al His ways and not folow after thoughts of the guilty
 inclination and after eyes of lust. For through them, great men have
 gone astray and mighty heroes have stumbled from former times til
 now. Because they walked in the stubbornness of their heart the
 Heavenly Watchers fel; they were caught because they did not keep
 the commandments of God. And their sons also fel who were tal as
 cedar trees and whose bodies were like mountains. Al flesh on dry
 land perished; they were as though they had never been because they
 did their own wi l and did not keep the commandment of their Maker so
 that His wrath was kindled against them. I Through it, the children of
 Noah went astray, together with their kin, and were cut off. Abraham
 did not walk in it, and he was accounted a friend of God because he
 kept the commandments of God and did not choose his own wil. And
 he handed them down to Isaac and Jacob, who kept them, and were
 recorded as friends of God and party to the Covenant for ever. The
 children of Jacob strayed through them and were punished in
 accordance with their error. And their sons in Egypt walked in the
 stubbornness of their hearts, conspiring against the commandments of
God and each of them doing that which seemed right in his own eyes.
 They ate blood, and He cut off their males in the wilderness. And at
 Kadesh He said to them, Go up and possess the land (Deut. ix, 23).
 But they chose their own wi l and did not heed the voice of their Maker,
 the commands of their Teacher, but murmured in their tents; and the
 anger of God was kindled against their congregation. Through it their
 sons perished, and through it their kings were cut off; through it their
 mighty heroes perished and through it their land was ravaged. Through
 it the first members of the Covenant sinned and were delivered up to
 the sword, because they forsook the Covenant of God and chose their
 own wil and walked in the stubbornness of their hearts, each of them
 doing his own wil.
 But with the remnant which held fast to the commandments of God
 He made His Covenant with Israel for ever, revealing to them the
 hidden things in which al Israel had gone astray. He unfolded before
 them His holy Sabbaths and his glorious feasts, the testimonies of His
 righteousness and the ways of His truth, and the desires of His wil
 which a man must do in order to live. And they dug a wel rich in water;
 and he who despises it shal not live. Yet they walowed in the sin of
 man and in ways of uncleanness, and they said, ‘This is our (way).’ But
 God, in His wonderful mysteries, forgave them their sin and pardoned
 their wickedness; and He built them a sure house in Israel whose like
 has never existed from former times ti l now. Those who hold fast to it
 are destined to live for ever and al the glory of Adam shal be theirs.
 As God ordained for them by the hand of the Prophet Ezekiel, saying,
 The Priests, the Levites, and the sons IV of Zadok who kept the
 charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel strayed from me,
 they sha l ofer me fat and blood (Ezek. xliv, 15).
 The Priests are the converts of Israel who departed from the land of
 Judah, and (the Levites are) those who joined them. The sons of
 Zadok are the elect of Israel, the men caled by name who shal stand
 at the end of days. Behold the exact list of their names according to
 their generations, and the time when they lived, and the number of their
 trials, and the years of their sojourn, and the exact list of their deeds...
 (They were the first men) of holiness whom God forgave, and who
 justified the righteous and condemned the wicked. And until the age is
completed, according to the number of those years, al who enter after
 them shal do according to that interpretation of the Law in which the
 first (men) were instructed. According to the Covenant which God
 made with the forefathers, forgiving their sins, so shal He forgive their
 sins also. But when the age is completed, according to the number of
 those years, there shal be no more joining the house of Judah, but
 each man shal stand on his watch-tower: The wal is built, the
 boundary far removed (Mic. vii, I).
 During al those years Belial shal be unleashed against Israel, as He
 spoke by the hand of Isaiah, son of Amoz, saying, Terror and the pit
 and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the land (Isa. xxiv, 17).
 Interpreted, these are the three nets of Belial with which Levi son of
 Jacob said that he catches Israel by setting them up as three kinds of
 righteousness. The first is fornication, the second is riches, and the
 third is profanation of the Temple. Whoever escapes the first is caught
 in the second, and whoever saves himself from the second is caught in
 the third (Isa. xxiv, 18).
 The ‘builders of the wal’ (Ezek. xiii, 10) who have folowed after
 ‘Precept’ - ‘Precept’ was a spouter of whom it is written, They sha l
 surely spout (Mic. ii, 6) - shal be caught in fornication twice by taking a
 second wife while the first is alive, whereas the principle of creation is,
 Male and female created He them (Gen. i, 27)’ V Also, those who
 entered the Ark went in two by two. And concerning the prince it is
 written, He sha l not multiply wives to himself (Deut. xvii, 17); but
 David had not read the sealed book of the Law which was in the ark
 (of the Covenant), for it was not opened in Israel from the death of
 Eleazar and Joshua, and the elders who worshipped Ashtoreth. It was
 hidden and (was not) revealed until the coming of Zadok. And the
 deeds of David rose up, except for the murder of Uriah, and God left
 them to him.
 Moreover, they profane the Temple because they do not observe the
 distinction (between clean and unclean) in accordance with the Law,
 but lie with a woman who sees her bloody discharge.
 And each man marries the daughter of his brother or sister, whereas
 Moses said, You shal not approach your mother’s sister; she is your
 mothers near kin (Lev. xviii, 13). But although the laws against incest
are written for men, they also apply to women. When, therefore, a
 brother’s daughter uncovers the nakedness of her father’s brother, she
 is (also his) near kin.
 Furthermore, they defile their holy spirit and open their mouth with a
 blaspheming tongue against the laws of the Covenant of God saying,
 ‘They are not sure.’ They speak abominations concerning them; they
 are al kindlers of fire and lighters of brands (Isa. 1, 11), their webs
 are spiders’ webs and their eggs are vipers’ eggs (Isa. lix, 5). No man
 that approaches them shal be free from guilt; the more he does so, the
 guiltier sha l he be, unless he is pressed. For (already) in ancient times
 God visited their deeds and His anger was kindled against their
 works; for it is a people of no discernment (Isa. xxvii, I), it is a nation
 void of counsel inasmuch as there is no discernment in them (Deut.
 xxxii, 28). For in ancient times, Moses and Aaron arose by the hand of
 the Prince of Lights and Belial in his cunning raised up Jannes and his
 brother when Israel was first delivered.
 77
 And at the time of the desolation of the land there arose removers of
 the bound who led Israel astray. And the land was ravaged because
 they preached rebelion against the commandments of God given by
 the hand of Moses and VI of His holy anointed ones, and because they
 prophesied lies to turn Israel away from folowing God. But God
 remembered the Covenant with the forefathers, and he raised from
 Aaron men of discernment and from Israel men of wisdom, and He
 caused them to hear. And they dug the Wel:
 78 the wel which the
 princes dug, which the nobles of the people delved with the stave
 (Num. xxi, 18).
 The Wel is the Law, and those who dug it were the converts of Israel
 who went out of the land of Judah to sojourn in the land of Damascus.
 God caled them al princes because they sought Him, and their
 renown was disputed by no man. The Stave is the Interpreter of the
 Law of whom Isaiah said, He makes a tool for His work (Isa. liv, 16);
 and the nobles of the people are those who come to dig the Wel with
 the staves with which the Stave ordained that they should walk in al the
 age of wickedness - and without them they shal find nothing - until he
 comes who shal teach righteousness at the end of days.
 None of those brought into the Covenant shal enter the Temple to
light His altar in vain. They shal bar the door, forasmuch as God said,
 Who among you wi l bar its door? And, You shal not light my altar in
 vain (Mal. i, 10). They shal take care to act according to the exact
 interpretation of the Law during the age of wickedness. They shal
 separate from the sons of the Pit, and shal keep away from the
 unclean riches of wickedness acquired by vow or anathema or from
 the Temple treasure; they shal not rob the poor of His people, to make
 of widows their prey and of the fatherless their victim (Isa. x, 2). They
 shal distinguish between clean and unclean, and shal proclaim the
 difference between holy and profane. They shal keep the Sabbath day
 according to its exact interpretation, and the feasts and the Day of
 Fasting according to the finding of the members of the New Covenant
 in the land of Damascus. They shal set aside the holy things according
 to the exact teaching concerning them. They shal love each man his
 brother as himself; they shal succour the poor, the needy, and the
 stranger.
 A man shal seek his brother’s wel-being VI and shal not sin
 against his near kin. They shal keep from fornication according to the
 statute. They shal rebuke each man his brother according to the
 commandment and shal bear no rancour from one day to the next.
 They shal keep apart from every uncleanness according to the
 statutes relating to each one, and no man shal defile his holy spirit
 since God has set them apart. For al who walk in these (precepts) in
 perfect holiness, according to al the teaching of God, the Covenant of
 God shal be an assurance that they shal live for thousands of
 generations (MS. B: as it is written, Keeping the Covenant and grace
 with those who love me and keep my commandments, to a thousand
 generations, Deut. vii, 9).
 And if they live in camps according to the rule of the Land (MS. B: as
 it was from ancient times), marrying (MS. B: according to the custom
 of the Law) and begetting children, they shal walk according to the
 Law and according to the statute concerning binding vows, according
 to the rule of the Law which says, Between a man and his wife and
 between a father and his son (Num. xxx, 17). And al those who
 despise (MS. B: the commandments and the statutes) shal be
 rewarded with the retribution of the wicked when God shal visit the
Land, when the saying shal come to pass which is written
 79 among the
 words of the Prophet Isaiah son of Amoz: He wi l bring upon you, and
 upon your people, and upon your father’s house, days such as have
 not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah (Isa. vii,
 17). When the two houses of Israel were divided, Ephraim departed
 from Judah. And al the apostates were given up to the sword, but
 those who held fast escaped to the land of the north; as God said, I wi l
 exile the tabernacle of your king and the bases of your statues from
 my tent to Damascus (Amos v, 26-7)
 The Books of the Law are the tabernacle of the king; as God said, I
 wi l raise up the tabernacle of David which is fa len (Amos ix, I). The
 king is the congregation; and the bases of the statues are the Books
 of the Prophets whose sayings Israel despised. The star is the
 Interpreter of the Law who shal come to Damascus; as it is written, A
 star sha l come forth out ofJacob and a sceptre sha l rise out of Israel
 (Num. xxiv, 17). The sceptre is the Prince of the whole congregation,
 and when he comes he shal smite al the children of Seth (Num. xxiv,
 17).
 At the time of the former Visitation they were saved, whereas the
 apostates V I were given up to the sword; and so shal it be for al the
 members of His Covenant who do not hold steadfastly to these (MS. B:
 to the curse of the precepts). They shal be visited for destruction by
 the hand of Belial. That shal be the day when God wil visit. (MS. B: As
 He said,) The princes of Judah have become (MS. B: like those who
 remove the bound); wrath shal be poured upon them (Hos. v, 10).
 For they shal hope for healing but He wil crush them. They are al of
 them rebels, for they
 80 have not turned from the way of traitors but have
 walowed in the ways of whoredom and wicked wealth. They have
 taken revenge and borne malice, every man against his brother, and
 every man has hated his felow, and every man has sinned against his
 near kin, and has approached for unchastity, and has acted arrogantly
 for the sake of riches and gain. And every man has done that which
 seemed right in his eyes and has chosen the stubbornness of his
 heart. They have not kept apart from the people (MS. B: and their sin)
 and have wilfuly rebeled by walking in the ways of the wicked of whom
 God said, Their wine is the venom of serpents, the cruel poison (or
head) of asps (Deut. xxxii, 33).
 The serpents are the kings of the peoples and their wine is their
 ways. And the head of asps is the chief of the kings of Greece who
 came to wreak vengeance upon them. But al these things the builders
 of the wa l and those who daub it with plaster (Ezek. xiii, 10) have not
 understood because a folower of the wind, one who raised storms and
 rained down lies, had preached to them (Mic. ii, 11), against al of
 whose assembly the anger of God was kindled.
 And as for that which Moses said, You enter to possess these
 nations not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your
 hearts (Deut. ix, 5) but because God loved your fathers and kept the
 oath (Deut. vii, 8), thus sha l it be with the converts of Israel who depart
 from the way of the people. Because God loved the first (men) who
 81
 testified in His favour, so wi l He love those who come after them, for
 the Covenant of the fathers is theirs. But He hated the builders of the
 wal and His anger was kindled (MS. B: against them and against al
 those who folowed them); and so shal it be for al who reject the
 commandments of God and abandon them for the stubbornness of
 their hearts. This is the word which Jeremiah spoke to Baruch son of
 Neriah, and which Elisha spoke to his servant Gehazi.
 None of the men who enter the New Covenant in the land of
 Damascus, (B I) and who again betray it and depart from the fountain
 of living waters, shal be reckoned with the Council of the people or
 inscribed in its Book from the day of the gathering in (B I) of the
 Teacher of the Community until the coming of the Messiah out of Aaron
 and Israel.
 And thus shal it be for every man who enters the congregation of
 men of perfect holiness but faints in performing the duties of the
 upright. He is a man who has melted in the furnace (Ezek. xxii, 22);
 when his deeds are revealed he shal be expeled from the
 congregation as though his lot had never falen among the disciples of
 God. The men of knowledge shal rebuke him in accordance with his
 sin against the time when he shal stand again before the Assembly of
 the men of perfect holiness. But when his deeds are revealed,
 according to the interpretation of the Law in which the men of perfect
 holiness walk, let no man defer to him with regard to money or work,
for a l the Holy Ones of the Most High have cursed him.
 And thus shal it be for al among the first and the last who reject (the
 precepts), who set idols upon their hearts and walk in the
 stubbornness of their hearts; they shal have no share in the house of
 the Law. They shal be judged in the same manner as their
 companions were judged who deserted to the Scoffer. For they have
 spoken wrongly against the precepts of righteousness, and have
 despised the Covenant and the Pact - the New Covenant - which they
 made in the land of Damascus. Neither they nor their kin shal have any
 part in the house of the Law.
 From the day of the gathering in of the Teacher of the Community
 until the end of al the men of war who deserted to the Liar there shal
 pass about forty years (Deut. ii, 14). And during that age the wrath of
 God shal be kindled against Israel; as He said, There shal be no
 king, no prince, no judge, no man to rebuke with justice (Hos. iii, 4).
 But those who turn from the sin of Jacob, who keep the Covenant of
 God, shal then speak each man to his felow, to justify each man his
 brother, that their step may take the way of God. And God wil heed
 their words and wil hear, and a Book of Reminder shal be written
 before Him of them that fear God and worship His Name, against the
 time when salvation and righteousness shal be revealed to them that
 fear God. And then shal you distinguish once more between the just
 and the wicked, between one that serves God and one that serves
 Him not (Mal. iii, 18); and He wi l show loving-kindness to thousands,
 to them that love Him and watch for Him, for a thousand generations
 (Exod. xx, 6).
 And every member of the House of Separation who went out of the
 Holy City and leaned on God at the time when Israel sinned and defiled
 the Temple, but returned again to the way of the people in smal
 matters, shal be judged according to his spirit in the Council of
 Holiness. But when the glory of God is made manifest to Israel, al
 those members of the Covenant who have breached the bound of the
 Law shal be cut off from the midst of the camp, and with them al those
 who condemned Judah in the days of its trials.
 But al those who hold fast to these precepts, going and coming in
 accordance with the Law, who heed the voice of the Teacher and
confess before God, (saying), ‘Truly we have sinned, we and our
 fathers, by walking counter to the precepts of the Covenant, Thy
 judgements upon us are justice and truth’; who do not lift their hand
 against His holy precepts or His righteous statutes or His true
 testimonies; who have learned from the former judgements by which
 the members of the Community were judged; who have listened to the
 voice of the Teacher of Righteousness and have not despised the
 precepts of righteousness when they heard them; they shal rejoice and
 their hearts shal be strong, and they shal prevail over al the sons of
 the earth. God wil forgive them and they shal see His salvation
 because they took refuge in His holy Name.
 82
 The Statutes
 ... (He shal not) XV swear by (the Name), nor by Aleph and Lamed
 (Elohim), nor by Aleph and Daleth (Adonai), but a binding oath by the
 curses of the Covenant.
 He shal not mention the Law of Moses for... were he to swear and
 then break (his oath) he would profane the Name.
 But if he has sworn an oath by the curses of the Covenant before the
 judges and has transgressed it, then he is guilty and shal confess and
 make restitution; but he shal not be burdened with a capital sin.
 And al those who have entered the Covenant, granted to al Israel
 for ever, shal make their children who have reached the age of
 enrolment, swear with the oath of the Covenant. And thus shal it be
 during al the age of wickedness for every man who repents of his
 corrupted way. On the day that he speaks to the Guardian of the
 congregation, they shal enrol him with the oath of the Covenant which
 Moses made with Israel, the Covenant to return to the Law of Moses
 with a whole heart and soul, to whatever is found should be done at
 that time. No man shal make known the statutes to him until he has
 stood before the Guardian, lest when examining him the Guardian be
 deceived by him. But if he transgresses after swearing to return to the
 Law of Moses with a whole heart and soul, they (the members) shal be
innocent should he transgress. And should he err in any matter that is
 revealed of the Law to the multitude of the camp, the Guardian shal
 {instruct} (4Q266, fr. 8 i, 5) him and shal issue directions concerning
 him: he should stu[dy] for a ful year.
 83 And according to his (the
 Guardian’s) knowledge, {no madman, or lunatic shal enter, no
 simpleton, or fool, no blind man, or maimed, or lame, or deaf man, and
 no minor, none of these shal enter into the Community, for the Angels
 of Holiness are [in their midst]} (4Q266, fr. 8 i, 6-9).
 (For God made) XVI a Covenant with you and al Israel; therefore a
 man shal bind himself by oath to return to the Law of Moses, for in it al
 things are strictly defined.
 As for the exact determination of their times to which Israel turns a
 blind eye, behold it is strictly defined in the Book of the Divisions of
 the Times into their Jubilees and Weeks. And on the day that a man
 swears to return to the Law of Moses, the Angel of Persecution shal
 cease to folow him provided that he fulfils his word: for this reason
 Abraham circumcised himself on the day that he knew.
 And concerning the saying, You sha l keep your vow by fulfi ling it
 (Deut. xxiii, 24), let no man, even at the price of death, annul any
 binding oath by which he has sworn to keep a commandment of the
 Law.
 But even at the price of death, a man shal fulfil no vow by which he
 has sworn to depart from the Law.
 Concerning the oath of a woman
 Inasmuch as He said, It is for her husband to cancel her oath (Num.
 xxx, 9), no husband shal cancel an oath without knowing whether it
 should be kept or not. Should it be such as to lead to transgression of
 the Covenant, he shal cancel it and shal not let it be kept. The rule for
 her father is likewise.
 Concerning the statute for free-will offerings
No man shal vow to the altar anything unlawfuly acquired. Also, no
 Priest shal take from Israel anything unlawfuly acquired. And no man
 shal consecrate the food of his house to God, for it is as he said, Each
 hunts his brother with a net (or votive-o fering: Mic. vii, 2). Let no man
 consecrate... And if he has consecrated to God some of his own field
 ... he who has made the vow shal be punished ... {[with] one sixth of his
 valuation money} (4Q266, fr. 8 ii, 2-3) ...
 IX
 84 Every vow by which a man vows another to destruction (cf. Lev.
 xxvii, 29) by the laws of the Gentiles shal himself be put to death. And
 concerning the saying, You sha l not take vengeance on the children
 of your people, nor bear any rancour against them (Lev. xix, 18), if
 any member of the Covenant accuses his companion without first
 rebuking him before
 85 witnesses; if he denounces him in the heat of
 his anger or reports him to his elders to make him look contemptible,
 he is one that takes vengeance and bears rancour, although it is
 expressly written, He takes vengeance upon His adversaries and
 bears rancour against His enemies (Nah. i, 2). If he holds his peace
 towards him from one day to another
 86 and thereafter speaks of him in
 the heat of his anger, he testifies against himself concerning a capital
 matter because he has not fulfi led the commandment of God which
 te ls him: You sha l rebuke your companion and not be burdened with
 sin because of him (Lev. xix, 17).
 Concerning the oath with reference to that which He said, You
 shall not take the law into your own hands (I Sam. XXV, 26)
 Whoever causes another to swear in the field instead of before the
 Judges, or at their decree, takes the law into his own hands. When
 anything is lost, and it is not known who has stolen it from the property
 of the camp in which it was stolen, its owner shal pronounce a curse,
 and any man who, on hearing (it), knows but does not tel, shal himself
 be guilty.
 When anything is returned which is without an owner, whoever
returns it sha l confess to the Priest, and apart from the ram of the sin
offering, it sha l be his.
 And likewise, everything which is found but has no owner shal go to
 the Priests, for the finder is ignorant of the rule concerning it. If no
 owners are discovered they shal keep it.
 Every sin which a man commits against the Law, and which his
 companion witnesses, he being alone, if it is a capital matter he shal
 report it to the Guardian, rebuking him in his presence, and the
 Guardian shal record it against him in case he should commit it again
 before one man and he should report it to the Guardian once more.
 Should he repeat it and be caught in the act before one man, his case
 shal be complete.
 And if there are two (witnesses), each testifying to a different matter,
 the man shal be excluded from the pure Meal provided that they are
 trustworthy and that each informs the Guardian on the day that they
 witnessed (the offence). In matters of property, they shal accept two
 trustworthy witnesses and shal exclude (the culprit) from the pure Meal
 on the word of one witness alone. No X Judge shal pass sentence of
 death on the testimony of a witness who has not yet attained the age of
 enrolment and who is not God-fearing.
 No man who has wilfuly transgressed any commandment shal be
 declared a trustworthy witness against his companion until he is
 purified and able to return.
 And this is the Rule for the Judges of the Congregation
 Ten shal be elected from the congregation for a definite time, four
 from the tribe of Levi and Aaron, and six from Israel. (They shal be)
 learned in the Book of Meditation and in the constitutions of the
 Covenant, and aged between twenty-five and sixty years. No man over
 the age of sixty shal hold office as Judge of the Congregation, for
 ‘because man sinned his days have been shortened, and in the heat of
 His anger against the inhabitants of the earth God ordained that their
 understanding should depart even before their days are completed’
 (Jubilees, xxiii, I).
Concerning purification by water
 No man shal bathe in dirty water or in an amount too shalow to
 cover a man. He shal not purify himself with water contained in a
 87
 vessel. And as for the water of every rock-pool too shalow to cover a
 man, if an unclean man touches it he renders its water as unclean as
 water contained in a vessel.
 Concerning the Sabbath to observe it according to its law
 No man shal work on the sixth day from the moment when the sun’s
 orb is distant by its own fulness from the gate (wherein it sinks); for this
 is what He said, Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy (Deut. v,
 12). No man shal speak any vain or idle word on the Sabbath day. He
 shal make no loan to his companion. He shal make no decision in
 matters of money and gain. He shal say nothing about work or labour
 to be done on the morrow.
 No man shal walk in the field
 88 to do business on the Sabbath. He
 shal not walk more than one thousand cubits beyond his town.
 No man shal eat on the Sabbath day except that which is already
 prepared. He shal eat nothing lying in the fields. He shal not drink
 except in the camp. XI If he is on a journey and goes down to bathe, he
 shal drink where he stands, but he shal not draw water into a vessel.
 He shal send out no stranger on his business on the Sabbath day. No
 man shal wear soiled garments, or garments brought to the store,
 unless they have been washed with water or rubbed with incense. No
 man shal wilingly mingle (with others) on the Sabbath.
 No man shal walk more than two thousand cubits after a beast to
 pasture it outside his town. He shal not raise his hand to strike it with
 his fist. If it is stubborn he sha l not take it out of his house.
 No man shal take anything out of the house or bring anything in. And
 if he is in a booth, let him neither take anything out nor bring anything
 in. He shal not open a sealed vessel on the Sabbath.
No man shal carry perfumes on himself whilst going and coming on
 the Sabbath. He shal lift neither stone nor dust in his dweling.
 No man minding a child shal carry it whilst going and coming on the
 Sabbath.
 No man shal chide
 89 his manservant or maidservant or labourer on
 the Sabbath.
 90 No man shal assist a beast to give birth on the
 Sabbath day. And if it should fal into a cistern or pit, he shal not lift it
 out on the Sabbath.
 No man shal spend the Sabbath in a place near to Gentiles on the
 Sabbath.
 No man shal profane the Sabbath for the sake of riches or gain on
 the Sabbath day. But should any man fal into water or (fire), let him not
 be puled out with the aid of a ladder or rope or (some such) utensil.
 No man on the Sabbath shal offer anything on the altar except the
 Sabbath burnt-offering; for it is written thus: Except your Sabbath
 oferings (Lev. xxiii, 38).
 No man shal send to the altar any burnt-offering, or cereal offering,
 or incense, or wood, by the hand of one smitten with any uncleanness,
 permitting him thus to defile the altar. For it is written, The sacrifice of
 the wicked is an abomination, but the prayer of the just is as an
 agreeable o fering (Prov. xv, 8).
 No man entering the house of worship shal come unclean and in
 need of washing. And at the sounding of the trumpets for assembly, he
 shal go there before or after (the meeting), and shal not cause the
 whole service to stop, X I for it is a holy service.
 No man shal lie with a woman in the city of the Sanctuary, to defile
 the city of the Sanctuary with their uncleanness.
 Every man who preaches apostasy under the dominion of the spirits
 of Belial shal be judged according to the law relating to those
 possessed by a ghost or familiar spirit (Lev. xx, 27). But no man who
 strays so as to profane the Sabbath and the feasts shal be put to
 death; it sha l fa l to men to keep him in custody. And if he is healed of
 his error, they shal keep him in custody for seven years and he shal
 afterwards approach the Assembly.
 No man shal stretch out his hand to shed the blood of a Gentile for
 the sake of riches and gain. Nor shal he carry off anything of theirs,
lest they blaspheme, unless so advised by the company of Israel.
 No man shal sel clean beasts or birds to the Gentiles lest they offer
 them in sacrifice. He shal refuse, with al his power, to sel them
 anything from his granary or wine-press, and he shal not sel them his
 manservant or maidservant inasmuch as they have been brought by
 him into the Covenant of Abraham.
 No man shal defile himself by eating any live creature or creeping
 thing, from the larvae of bees to al creatures which creep in water.
 They shal eat no fish unless split alive and their blood poured out. And
 as for locusts, according to their various kinds they shal plunge them
 alive into fire or water, for this is what their nature requires.
 Al wood and stones and dust defiled by the impurity of a man shal
 be reckoned like men having defilement of oil on them; whoever
 touches them shal be defiled by their defilement. And every nail or peg
 in the wal of a house in which a dead man lies shal become unclean
 as any working tool becomes unclean (Lev. xi, 32).
 The Rule for the assembly of the towns of Israel shal be according to
 these precepts that they may distinguish between unclean and clean,
 and discriminate between the holy and the profane.
 And these are the precepts in which the Master shal walk in his
 commerce with al the living in accordance with the statute proper to
 every age. And in accordance with this statute shal the seed of Israel
 walk and they shal not be cursed.
 This is the Rule for the assembly of the camps
 Those who folow these statutes in the age of wickedness until the
 coming of the Messiah of Aaron X I and Israel shal form groups of at
 least ten men, by Thousands, Hundreds, Fifties, and Tens (Exod.
 xviii, 25)-And where the ten are, there shal never be lacking a Priest
 learned in the Book of Meditation; they shal al be ruled by him.
 But should he not be experienced in these matters, whereas one of
 the Levites is experienced in them, then it shal be determined that al
 the members of the camp shal go and come according to the latter’s
 word.
But should there be a case of applying the law of leprosy to a man,
 then the Priest shal come and shal stand in the camp and the
 Guardian shal instruct him in the exact interpretation of the Law.
 Even if the Priest is a simpleton, it is he who shal lock up (the leper);
 for theirs is the judgement.
 This is the Rule for the Guardian of the camp
 He shal instruct the Congregation in the works of God. He shal
 cause them to consider His mighty deeds and shal recount al the
 happenings of eternity to them [according to] their [ex]planation
 (4Q267, fr. 9 iv, 2). He shal love them as a father loves his children,
 and shal carry them in al their distress like a shepherd his sheep. He
 shal loosen al the fetters which bind them that in his Congregation
 there may be none that are oppressed or broken. He shal examine
 every man entering his Congregation with regard to his deeds,
 understanding, strength, ability and possessions, and shal inscribe
 him in his place according to his rank in the lot of L[ight].
 No member of the camp shal have authority to admit a man to the
 Congregation against the decision of the Guardian of the camp.
 No member of the Covenant of God shal give or receive anything
 from the sons of Dawn (shahar) [or: of the Pit (shahat)] except for
 payment.
 No man shal form any association for buying and seling without
 informing the Guardian of the camp and shal act on (his) advice and
 they shal not go {astray. Likewise he who marri[es]} (4Q266, fr. 9 ii, 4)
 a woma[n] ... advice. Likewise he who divorces (his wife). And he (the
 Guardian) shal instruct {their sons [and their daughters in a spiri]t}
 (4Q266, fr. 9 ii, 6-7) of humility and in loving-kindness and shal not
 keep {anger} (4Q266, fr. 9 ii, 8) towards them ...
 This is the Rule for the assembly of the camps during al [the age of
 wickedness, and whoever does not hold fast to] these (statutes) shal
 not be fit to dwel in the Land [when the Messiah of Aaron and Israel
 shal come at the end of days].
 [And] these are the [precepts] in which the Master [shal walk in his
commerce with al the living until God shal visit the earth. As He said,
 There shal come upon you, and upon your people, and upon your
 father’s house, days] XIV such as have not come since Ephraim
 departed from Judah (Isa. vii, 17); but for whoever shal walk in these
 (precepts), the Covenant of God shal stand firm to save him from al
 the snares of the Pit, whereas the foolish shal be punished.
 91
 The Rule for the assembly of all the camps
 They shal al be enroled by name: first the Priests, second the
 Levites, third the Israelites, and fourth the proselytes. And they sha l be
 inscribed by name, one after the other: the Priests first, the Levites
 second, the Israelites third, and the proselytes fourth. And thus shal
 they sit and thus be questioned on al matters. And the Priest who is
 appointed {to head} (4Q267, fr. 9 v, I) the Congregation shal be from
 thirty to sixty years old, learned in the Book of Meditation and in al the
 judgements of the Law so as to pronounce them correctly.
 The Guardian of al the camps shal be from thirty to fifty years old,
 one who has mastered al the secrets of men and the languages of al
 their clans. Whoever enters the Congregation shal do so according to
 his word, each in his rank. And whoever has anything to say
 92 with
 regard to any suit or judgement, let him say it to the Guardian.
 This is the Rule for the Congregation by which it shall provide
 for all its needs
 They shal place the earnings of at least two days out of every month
 into the hands of the Guardian and the Judges, and from it they shal
 give to the fatherless, and from it they shal succour the poor and the
 needy, the aged sick and the man who is stricken (with disease), the
 captive taken by a foreign people, the virgin with no near kin, and the
 ma[id for] whom no man cares ...
 And this is the exact statement of the assembly ...
This is the exact statement of the statutes in which [they shall
 walk until the coming of the Messia]hof Aaron and Israel who
 will pardon their iniquity
 [Whoever] deliberately lies in a matter of property... and shal do
 penance for six days ...
 [Whoever slanders his companion or bears rancour] unjustly [shal
 do penance for one] year...
Damascus Document manuscripts from Cave 4
 Three Qumran caves have provided supplementary documentation to
 the text preserved in the Cairo Genizah. Of these the evidence
 furnished by Caves 5 (CD IX, 7-10) and 6 (CD IV, 19-21, v, 13-14, v,
 18-VI, 2, VI, 20-V I, 1) is negligible, but the fragments discovered in
 Cave 4 (4Q266-273) are of the highest importance. Furthermore
 4Q265 provides a kind of hybrid connecting the Damascus Document
 and the Community Rule. Palaeographicaly 4Q266-73 are dated from
 the mid-first century BCE to the beginning of the first century CE.
 The 4Q material represents (1) a prologue missing from CD
 (4Q266, fr. I—b; fr. 2 i, 1-6, combined with 4Q267, fr. 1 and 268, fr. 1)
 and substantial legal sections which folow the broken ending of the
 Statutes of CD. These laws relate to (2) the admission or dismissal of
 candidates (4Q266, fr. 5); to (3) criteria for disqualifying priests
 (4Q266, fr. 5; 267, fr. 5 ii; 273, frs. 2, 4 i); to (4) detailed rulings
 concerning the diagnosis and quarantining of persons suffering from
 skin disease (4Q266, fr. 6; 272, fr. 1); to (5) laws pertaining to
 gleanings (4Q266, fr. 6 iii-iv) and to the agricultural priestly dues
 (4Q270, fr. 3 ii-iii; 271, fr. 2; 269, fr. 8 i-ii). (6) A penal code partly
 overlapping with 1QS VI folows (4Q266, fr. 10; 270, fr. 7 i; 269, fr. I i
ii). The two main manuscripts (4Q266, fr. I and 270, fr. 7i-ii) end with
 the ritual for the dismissal of unworthy members used in the ceremony
 marking entry into and expulsion from the Covenant. This festival was
 celebrated in the third month and coincided with the Feast of Weeks or
 Pentecost. Finaly (7) the hybrid S-D (4Q265), in which the Community
 Rule and the Damascus Document merge, alows a glimpse into the
 interrelationship between the two main constitutional documents of the
 Community.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XV I. For
 4Q269, see H. Stegemann, DJD, XXXVI, 201-11.
(1) THE OPENING OF THE DAMASCUS
 DOCUMENT ACCORDING TO 4QD
 (4Q266-8)
 Three Cave 4 manuscripts of the Damascus Document (4Q266, fr. 1a
b; fr. 2 i, 1-6, combined 4Q267 fr. 1 and 268 fr. 1) have preserved
 parts of a prologue unattested in the Cairo version. The prologue
 contains a title vaguely reminiscent of the opening of 4QSd. The
 context is eschatological and aludes to a revelation by God to those
 ‘who search His commandments and walk in the perfection of way’.
 CD 11,1 folows on directly from the end of the prologue.
 4Q266, fr. Ia-b
 [For the Master to instruct the s]ons of Light to keep away from the
 way[s of wickedness] ... until the completion of the appointed time for
 the visitation of [the spirit of injustice] ... God [wi l destro]y al her
 deeds, bringing destruction on ... the removers of boundaries and He
 wi l inflict destruction [on the assembly] of wickedness. [And now listen]
 to me and I wil let you know the awesome des[igns of God] and His
 marvelous [mighty deeds]. I wi l recount to you [al that is concealed]
 from man [al the d]ays of his life...
 Fr. 2 (4Q267, fr. 1; 268, fr. 1)
 I flesh and creature... until it comes to them for they shal not be either
 early or late from their appointed times... He decreed an age of wrath
 for the people who did not know Him, and He established appointed
 times of goodwil for those who search His commandments and walk
 in the perfection of way. And He revealed hidden things to their eyes,
 and opened their ears so that they might hear deep (secrets) and
understand al future things before they befal them. Listen now, al you
 who know righteousness... (=CD 1, 1).
 (2) INITIATION RULES
 (4Q266, fr. 5)
 This fragment contains echoes of the Community Rule’s regulations
 regarding admission and dismissal of candidates and CD’s
 identification of the sons of Zadok as the ‘converts of Israel’.
 I ... ... [that they may bring near] each according to [his] spirit [and
 deeds] ... they shal depart by the decision of the Guardian (cf. 1QS VI,
 16-17) ... [And these are the precepts] in which al the converts of Israel
 [sha l wa]lk ... the sons of Zadok, the Priests (cf. CD IV, 2-3), behold
 the[y are the converts of Israel... [the interpretation of the] last Law. And
 these are the precepts for the Mas[ter] in which [he shal walk (1QS IX,
 12)] in regard to al Israel, for [God] shal not save any of those who are
 not established] in His ways to walk perfec[tly] ...
 (3) RULES RELATING TO THE
 DISQUALIFICATION OF PRIESTS
 4Q 266, fr. 5 i (4Q267, fr. 5 i; 273, frs. 2, 4 i)
 In this section of priestly legislation, the Community specifies (I) that
 only priests able to speak clearly and distinctly were alowed to read
 the Bible in public; (2) that priests who had been war prisoners were
 disqualified from Temple service; and (3) that priests who migrated to
 Gentile countries were deprived of their leading position and forbidden
to partake in holy things.
 I Whoever speaks too fast (or: too quietly, lit. swift or light with his
 tongue) or with a staccato voice and does not split his words to make
 [his voice] heard, no one from among these shal read the Book of [the]
 La[w] that he may not misguide someone in a capital matter.... [Any
 man] from among the sons of Aaron who has been taken prisoner by
 the nations... to defile him with their uncleanness. He shal not come
 close to the [holy] worship... Let him not eat the most holy [things] ...
 Any son of Aaron who retreats to ser[ve the nations] ... to teach his
 people the constitution of the people and also to betray... [Any son] of
 Aaron whose name has been rejected from the Truth... [who has
 walked] in the stubbornness of his heart, eating from the holy ... from
 Israel, the Council of the sons of Aaron... who eats, he shal become
 guilty of the blood... in genealogy. And this is the rule for the dweling
 [of the towns of Israel ... for the men] of holin[ess in] their [camps and]
 in their towns in a[l] ...
 (4) DIAGNOSIS OF SKIN DISEASE
 (4Q 266,269,272,273)
 The rules relating to the diagnosis of a skin disease affecting the scalp
 and the face (Lev. xiii, 29-37) are missing from the Cairo manuscripts,
 but can be partialy reconstructed from 4Q272 and 266 and also from
 4Q269 and 273. The introductory formula prefixed to Lev. xiii, 33, viz.,
 ‘And as for that which is said’, usualy indicative of a repeat citation,
 suggests that a longer Leviticus quotation preceded it. The skin
 disease section is folowed by laws relating to various sexual
 discharges causing uncleanness and impurity linked with childbirth.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XV I, 50-51,
 186-7.
4Q 266, fr. 6 i (4Q272 1 273 i, 269 7)
 I ... a discoloration or a scab or a bright spot ... And the scab resulting
 from a blow by wood [or st]one or whatever blow, when the spi[rit]
 enters [and sei]zes the artery, and the blood recedes up and down,
 and the artery... after the blood ...
 [And the priest shal observe the skin, the living and] the dead. If the
 dead (skin) [exceeds] the living (skin), he shal lock him up [until the
 blood re]turns to the artery until the flesh grows. And the priest shal
 observe him and shal make a comparison [on] the seventh [d]ay, [and
 if the spirlit of life is moving up and down, and the flesh grows, [the
 plague is healed, clean is] the scab. The priest shal not observe the
 skin on the flesh.
 4Q266, fr. 6
 I But if the discoloration or the scab is lower [than the skin... and the
 Pr]iest sees it as the appearance of living flesh, it is [a ‘leprosy’ (skin
 disease)] which has seized the living skin. And a similar rule
 concerning ... the Priest shal see on the seventh day. If some living
 flesh has become dead, the leprosy is malignant. And the law for the
 scab of the head or the bea[rd, when the Priest shal see] that the spirit
 has entered the head and the beard seizing the artery, and [the plague]
 spreads from under the hair and turns its appearance to fine yelow; for
 it is like a plant which has a worm under it and bites its root and makes
 its flower wither. And as for that which is said, And the Priest sha l
 order that they shave his head, but sha l not shave the scab (Lev. xiii,
 33). This is in order that the Priest may count the dead and live hair.
 And he wil see whether anything has been added from the live to the
 dead (hair) during the seven days. If there has, he is unclean. But if
 nothing has been added from the live (hair) to the dead, and the artery
 is fi led with bl[ood] and the sp[i]rit of life goes up and down in it, this
 plague [is cured]. And this is the rule of the law of ‘leprosy’ for the sons
 of Aaron to set apart...
And the law concerning a man with a flux. Any man with a [fl]ux
 issuing from [his] flesh, [o]r one that causes a [lew]d thought to arise or
 ... I the woma[n] ... [the man who ap]proaches [her] wi l have [the s]in of
 menstrual uncleanness on him. And if she sees (blood) a[gain] and this
 is not [during the uncleanness] of seven days, she shal not eat sacred
 (food) and shal not en[ter] the Sanctuary until the sun has set on the
 eighth day. vacat
 And a woman who [conceiv]es and bears a male child [shal be
 unclean] for seven [days like] in her menstrual d[ays. On the eighth
 day the flesh of his] foreskin [shal be circumcised. She shal
 continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her purifying. But if she
 bears a female child, she sha l be unclean for a fortnight as in] her
 [menstr]uation. For [sixty-six days she sha l continue in her blood of
 purifying (Lev. xii, 2-5). And she] sha l not eat [sacred (food) and shal
 not enter the Sanctuary, for] it is a capital crime... [Let her give the
 chi]ld to a wet-nurse who is in [(the state of) pur]ity.... [And] if she
 cannot aford a lamb, then she shal take a turtledove or a young
 pigeon (Lev. xii, 8) and she shal substitute it for the [lamb]....
 (5) RULES CONCERNING GLEANINGS AND
 AGRICULTURAL PRIESTLY DUES
 (4Q 266,269,270,271)
 I ... [Concer]ning [gleanings (of grain) and the gleanings (of grapes)
 from the vine]yard. (A cluster is up to ten berries.)
 And al the gleanings (of grain) up to a seah (measure of capacity=c.
 12 litres) per bet seah (area requiring one seah of seed for sowing) ...
 [And a field] which produces no seed, is not subject to (a levy of)
 terumah-o fering or of falen grapes or of clusters up to ten berries.
 And for the harvest of olives and the fruit of its produce, if it is
 complete, isolated olives are one in thirty.
 But if the field was ravaged or consumed by burning,
4Q 270, fr. 3
 should the amount (remaining) be a seah per bet seah, it is to be
 tithed. If one person gleans one seah from it one day, the terumah wi l
 be one isaron (=30 per cent of a seah). [Concerning the two] loaves of
 the terumah. Al the families (lit. houses) of Israel, those who eat the
 bread of the land, are to offer the terumah once a year (cf. Num. xv,
 19-20; Lev. xxiii, 17). One (loaf) sha l be one isaron.
 4Q 266, fr. 6
 IV ... Al sacred offerings from the planting of vineyards and al fruit
 trees (producing) food shal belong to them (the priests), as is decreed
 for them, in the holy [lan]d and in the land of (their) sojourn. And
 afterwards they may sel of them to bu[y] ... a man may plant, in the
 fourth year he may n[ot ea]t (of it) for they sanctified it in [that] y[ear] ...
 4Q 271, fr. 2 (4Q269, fr. 8 i- i; 270, fr. 3 i)
 ... he shal take off from (the grain of) the threshing-floor one tenth of a
 ho[mer (measure of volume, c. 220 litres), that is one eph]ah [or bath
 (22 litres), as is established]. The ephah and the bath are both the
 same measure. And from [the wheat o]ne sixth of [an ephah out of a
 homer and one tenth of a bath] for the fruit of trees. Let no one
 separate himself (from the norm of I out of 200, cf. Ezek. xlv, 15) by
 offering one lamb out of a hundred. Let [no] man eat [from the
 threshing-floor] and from the garden before [the prie]sts have stretched
 out their hand [to ble]ss first.... a house belonging to a man, he may sel
 and with... and he shal be innocent.... Let no man bring... to his pure
 food. Neither shal he bring close to his pure food any gold or silver or
 [copper], or tin or le[ad] from which the nations have made idols,
 except new (metal) coming straight from the furnace. Let no man bring
 any leather or garment or any vessel [which is used for] work and which
has been defiled by the corpse of a man unless they were sprinkled
 according to the law [of purity with the water] for uncleanness in the
 age of wickedness (by) a man pure of al uncleanness who has
 alowed the sun to set (i.e. one who after bathing himself did not
 proceed until after sunset). No young man who has not yet reached the
 age to pass the mu[ster shal sprinkle] ...
 (6) THE PENAL CODE AND THE RENEWAL OF
 THE COVENANT RITUAL
 (4Q 266,270)
 CD XIV ends with scrappy relics of a penal code. The Cave 4
 manuscripu Da and De include a list of breaches of the rule punished
 by exclusion and penance of varying lengths. They closely resemble
 the code contained in the Community Rule (1QS VI). The principal
 difference consists in the explicit mention of women (fornication with
 one’s wife and murmuring against the Mothers) which once again
 renders the silence of Serekh concerning any matter pertaining to the
 female sex particularly eloquent. The penal code is folowed by a
 Covenant ritual, which ends the Cave 4 version of the Damascus
 Document and contains the words spoken by the priestly head of the
 sect, folowing the expulsion of the unfaithful members of the
 congregation. The passage includes the reference to the ‘third month’
 as the date of this festive assembly and presents the message of this
 writing as ‘the last interpretation of the Law’.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DVD, XV I, 72-8,
 162-70.
 4Q266, fr. 10 (4Q270, fr. 7 i; 269, fr. 11 i- i)
 . I [He shal be excluded for] two [hundred] days and do penance
for one hundred days. But if it was a capital matter and he bears (a
 grudge), [he] shal not return [again. And whoev]er has in[sulted] his
 companion without a reason [shal be exc]luded for one year and do
 pe[nan]ce for s[ix months] (cf. 1QS VI, 4). Whoever has spoken a
 foolish word, shal do penance for t[wen]ty [days and wi l be excluded]
 for three month[s (cf. 1QS VI, 9). And whoever in]terrupts the w[ords of
 his companion and lets himself go, wi l do penance for ten] days (1QS
 VI, 9-10). [And whoever lies do]wn [and] fals asleep at [the mee]t[ing
 of the Congregation ... shal be excluded] for thirty days [and] do
 penance for ten days. [And likewise, whoever has] left [without the
 consent of the Congregation and gratu]itously as many as three ti[mes
 in] one [session], he [shal do penance for ten] days. But if he has left
 the session [when they were standing, he shal do penance for thir]ty
 day[s]. And whoever has walked [naked] before [his] companion,
 whether he has walked in the house or in the field, he has walked
 n[aked before the peo]ple; he shal be excluded for six [months] ...
 (1QS VI, 10-12). And whoever has [d]rawn his hand from under [his]
 gar[ment and he was so poorly dressed that his nakedness was seen,
 he shal be separated for thir]ty [day]s and shal do penance for ten
 (1QS VI, 13-14). And whoever has gu[ffawed foolishly making his
 voi]c[e heard, sha l be excluded for th]irty (days) and shal do penance
 for fif[teen days. And whoever has drawn out] his le[ft h]and [to
 gesticu]late with it, sha l do penance [for ten days (1QS VI, 14-15).
 And who]ever has gone [slandering his com]panion, they shal exclude
 him from the purity for one year.
 4Q 270, fr. 7
 I [and shal do penance for six months. But whoever has slandered the
 Congregation shal be expeled] and shal not return ag[ain] (1QS VI,
 15-16). [If he has murmured against his companion unjustly, he shal do
 penance for six months (1QS VI, 17-18). And] the m[a]n whose spirit
 has so trembled [before the authority of the Community that he has
 betrayed the truth and walked in the stubbornness of his heart, he shal
 be excluded for two years] and do penance for sixty [days] (1QS VI,
18-19). [When his two years are completed, the Congregation shal
 consider [his ca]se, [and if he is admitted,] he shal be ins[cribed in his
 rank and may then question about the law (1QS VI, 20—21). And
 whoever] has despised the law of the Congregation shal leave and
 [sha l not return again. And whoever has taken] his food (from another
 person) outside the rules, he shal return it to the man fr[om whom] he
 has taken it. vacat And whoever has approached his wife, not
 according to the rules, (thus) fornicating, he shal leave and wi l not
 return again. [If he has murmured] against the Fathers, he shal leave
 and shal not return [again (cf. 1QS VI, 17). But if he has murmured]
 against the Mothers, he shal do penance for ten days. For the Mothers
 have no rwqmh(distinction ?) within [the Congregation. vacat
 And these are the r]ules in [which they shal walk, al those who have
 been corrected. Whoev]er comes [to report some]one to the Priest
 [over]seeing
 4Q 266, fr. I4Q270, fr. 7 i- i)
 I the Congregation, he shal wi lingly accept His judgement, as He has
 ordered by the hand of Moses regarding the soul that sins by
 inadvertence that he shal bring his sin-offering and his guilt-offering.
 And concerning Israel it is written, I wi l go to the ends [of] heaven and
 wi l not smel the smel of your sweet odour (Lev. xxvi, 31). And in
 another passage it is written, To return to God with crying and fasting
 (Joel ii, 13). And in another passage it is written, Rend your heart and
 not your garment (ibid.) and it is written to return to God with fasting
 and weeping (Joel ii, 12). And whoever rejects these rules which folow
 al the precepts found in the Law of Moses, shal not be counted with al
 the sons of His truth, for his soul has detested the righteous corrections
 (cf. 1QS I, I). As a rebel, he shal be dismissed from the
 Congregation. The Priest [over]seeing the Congregation shal speak
 about him. Answering, [he shal] say: ‘Blessed art Thou, “Lord” of the
 universe. Everything is in Thine hands and Thou art the maker of
 everything. Thou hast founded the [pe]oples according to their families
 and the languages of their nations. Thou hast made them err in
confusion without a way. And Thou hast chosen our Fathers and hast
 given to their seed the precepts of Thy truth and Thine holy judgements
 by which a man, if he practises them, shal live. And Thou hast
 established boundaries for us and cursed those who transgress them.
 And we are the people of Thy redemption and the flock of Thy pasture.
 Thou hast cursed those who transgress it (the boundary?) but we
 maintain (it).’ And the dismissed man shal leave, and whoever eats
 from what is his, and greets (literaly, inquires about the welfare 
shalom– of) the man who has been dismissed, and agrees with him,
 his case shal be recorded by the Guardian according to the decree,
 and his judgement shal be complete. And al [the inhabitants] of the
 camps shal assemble in the third month and shal curse him who turns
 aside, to the right [or to the left from the] Law. And this (the foregoing)
 is the interpretation of the laws which they shal observe in al the age
 [of visitation which wi l be visited on them during al]l the age of wrath
 and in their marches for al those who dwel in their camps and al their
 towns. Behold al this is according to the last interpretation of the Law.
 (7) A HYBRID COMMUNITY RULE – DAMASCUS
 DOCUMENT TEXT
 (4Q265)
 Twelve fragments of a manuscript, dating probably to the end of the
 first century BCE, have preserved remains of a writing dependent both
 on the Community Rule and on the Damascus Document but also
 including material which is in neither of these sources. Fr. I deals with
 the initiation into the Community and the penal code in terms recaling
 1QS VI-VI, and fr. 7, lines 7-10 contains a description of the Council of
 the Community which is an abridged version of 1QS V I, 1—9. It is
 worth noting that the ‘twelve men and three priests’ of 1QS V I, I is
 replaced here by‘fift[een men]’. Elements of the Sabbath laws from CD
 XI figure on columns I-I of fr. 7, while on one point the borrowing is
probably from the Temple Scrol LI, 17-18. As for material alien to
 1QS and CD, fr. 2 cites Isaiah liv, 1-2 in ful and the last four lines of fr.
 7 ii reproduce Lev. xii, 2, 4a, 5, 4b, but omitting xii, 3. This quotation is
 part of an account of the ages of the world arranged according to
 weeks, beginning with the garden of Eden.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XXXV, 57-58.
 Fr. 1
 ... as it is written [in the Book of] ... [as] it is written in the B[ook] of
 Isaiah the prophet: [Sing, o barren one, who did not bear; break forth
 in singing and] cry aloud you who have not been in travail! For the
 sons [of the desolate one] wi l be more [than the children of her who
 is married, says the Lord]. Enlar[ge] the place of [your] ten[t] ... (Isa.
 liv, 1-2) Its interpretation concerns...
 Fr. 3
 ... Why does a ma[n] betray his brother ... [Let no] young man or
 woman eat [the sacrifice] of Passover...
 Fr. 4
 I ... [and he shal be punished for t]en d[a]ys ... [and he shal be
 punished] thirty days ... [and he shal be punished during that time with
 the half of his food for fifte[en days] ... and he shal be punished for
 three months wi[th half of his food. The man who speaks before] his
 fe low inscribed before him, shal be excluded from purity for six
 months [and he shal be punished with half of his food.] vacat And the
 man who insu[Its his felow... shal be punished] for thirty days. vacat
 And the man who know[ingly] deceives [shal be separated for six]
 months (IQS VI, 3-4) and shal be punished during that time with half of
 his food. [And the man who lies] knowingly in any matter shal be
punished for thirty days vacat [And the man who lies concerning
 property] know[ingly], they sha l exclude him for six months. [And the
 man who lies down] I ... [and fals asle]ep during a session of the
 Congregation shal be punished for thirt[y days. And if... to read from]
 the book, he fals asleep up to three times and if [he goes out, he shal
 be punished for ten days.] And the man who comes to j[oi]n the Council
 of the [Commu]nity [the Guardian of] the Congregation [shal examine
 him]. If it fa ls to him he shal instruct him for [one] year. [And after he
 shal stand] before the Congregation and they shal deliberate [over
 h]im (cf. 1QS VI, 15). If he is not found [fit for the discipline (cf. 1QS VI,
 14), he shal depart (1QS VI, 16). If he is to enter,] the Guardian shal
 [teach him the interpretation] of the Law. He shal not [touch the pure
 Meal of the Congregation until] another ful year (1QS VI, 16-17). [And
 on completing] his year (1QS VI, 18) [they shal hand over his property
 to] the Guardian of the Congregation ... [Wh]en he comes ...
 Fr. 6
 ... on Sabbath day let no [man wear] soiled [garment]s (CD XI, 3). No
 man shal be dr[ess]ed in garments on which there is dust or ... on the
 Sabbath day. No [ma]n shal ta[ke] out of his tent a vessel and foo[d] on
 the Sabbath day. No man shal lift an animal which has falen into water
 on the Sabbath day (CD xi, 13-14). But if a man fals into water on the
 Sabbath [day], he shal pass to him his garment to lift him out, but he
 shal not carry an instrument [to lift him out on] the Sabbath [day] (cf.
 CD XI, 16-17). And if the army... I ... [on] the Sabbath [day]. And let no
 ... Let [n]o man of the seed of Aaron sprinkle [purifying] w[aters (cf.
 1QS I, 9; IV, 21) on the Sabbath day.] ... And with a beast he shal
 walk two thousand cubits [on the Sabbath day (CD xi, 5-6). Every
 beast with a defect in it shal be kept at a distance of(?)] thirty stadia
 [from the city of the Sanc]tuary (cf. IQTemple LI, 17-18) ... When there
 shal be in the Council of the Community fift[een men, perfectly versed
 in al that is revealed of the Law (1QS V I, I) and the Pr]ophets, the
 Council of the Community shal be established [in truth (1QS V I, 5).
 They shal be witnesses to the truth at the judgement and elect] of
Goodwil. They shal be an agreeable offering atoning on behalf of the
 Land (cf. 1QS V I, 6, 9) for a[l iniquity ... He shal terminate the ages of
 injustice (cf. 1QS IV, 18) ...
 Fr. 7
 ... on the day of s[abbath ... on the da]y of sabbath... [N]o man from the
 seed of Aaron shal sprinkle wa[ter of purification ... They shal not
 bathe or wa]sh (their garments) [on] the great day and fast, on the day
 of [Atonement. He who goes outside his town to graze the] animals
 may go (to a distance of) two thousand cubits. [No man shal eat a
 blemished animal] within thirty stadia [from the sanctu]ary (cf. 1 1QT v,
 16-18).... When there shal be in the Council of the Community fift[een
 men as God had said through His servants, the pr]ophets, the Council
 of the Community shal be established [in truth as an everlasting
 plantation, witnesses of truth and elect] of Goodwi l, sweet fragrance to
 atone for the land... the ages of injustice wi l end by the judgement and
 the ... (cf. 1QS V I, 1-10).
 vacat In the first week [Adam was created... until] he was not brought
 to the garden of Eden and a bone [from his bones was taken to
 become the woman] .... but she (Eve) had [no name (?)] until she was
 not brought to him (Adam) ... For holy is a garden of Eden, and every
 fresh shoot that is in it is holy [as it is written, If a woman conceives
 and bears a male child,] then she shal be unclean for seven days;
 as at the time of her menstruation, she sha l be unclean (Lev. xii, 2).
 Then [she shal continue for] thi[rty-three days in the blood] of her
 purifying (Lev. xii, 4). But if she bears a female child, [then she sha l
 be unclean two weeks as in her menstruation. And she shal
 contin]ue in the blood of her purifying [for sixty-six days (Lev. xii, 5).
 She shal not touch ] any halowed things, nor come into the
 Sanctuary until the days of her purification are completed](Lev. xii, 4).
The Messianic Rule
 (1QSa=1Q28a)
 The Messianic Rule was published in 1955 by D. Barthélemy in DJD,I
 (Oxford, 1955, pp. 107-18). Originaly included in the same Scrol as
 the Community Rule, this short but complete work presents the
 translator with great difficulties owing to its bad state of preservation
 and to the carelessness of the scribe.
 Barthélemy named the work ‘The Rule of the Congregation’, but I
 have given it a new title for the folowing reasons: (1) it was intended
 for ‘al the congregation in the last days’; (2) it is a Rule for a
 Community adapted to the requirements of the messianic war against
 the nations; (3) it refers to the presence of the Priest and the Messiah
 of Israel at the Council, and at the Meal described in column I.
 As in the Cave I version of the Community Rule and in the
 Damascus Document, but contrary to the version preserved in 4QSd
 (=4Q258) and 4QSb (=4Q256), ‘the sons of Zadok, the Priests’ form
 the chief authority in the sect.
 In the main, the precepts and the doctrinal concepts of the
 Messianic Rule foreshadow those of the War Rule. A mid-first-century
 BCE date may safely be proposed. Hundreds of tiny papyrus
 fragments of this text written in a cryptic script have been found in
 Cave 4. However, the pieces are so smal that they cannot
 independently contribute to the textual criticism of 1QSa. See S. J.
 Pfann, 4Q249a-h, DJD, XXXVI, 515-74.
 I This is the Rule for al the congregation of Israel in the last days,
 when they shal join [the Community to wa]lk according to the law of
the sons of Zadok the Priests and of the men of their Covenant who
 have turned aside [from the] way of the people, the men of His
 Council who keep His Covenant in the midst of iniquity, ofering
 expiation [for the Land]
 When they come, they shal summon them al, the little children and
 the women also, and they shal read into their [ears a]l the precepts of
 the Covenant and shal expound to them al their statutes that they may
 no longer stray in their [errors].
 And this is the Rule for al the hosts of the congregation, for every
 man born in Israel
 From [his] youth they shal instruct him in the Book of Meditation and
 shal teach him, according to his age, the precepts of the Covenant. He
 [sha l be edu]cated in their statutes for ten years...
 At the age of twenty years [he shal be] enroled, that he may enter
 upon his alotted duties in the midst of his family (and) be joined to the
 holy congregation. He shal not [approach] a woman to know her by
 lying with her before he is fuly twenty years old, when he shal know
 [good] and evil. And thereafter, he shal be accepted when he cals to
 witness the judgements of the Law, and shal be (alowed) to assist at
 the hearing of judgements.
 At the age of twenty-five years he may take his place among the
 foundations (i.e. the officials) of the holy congregation to work in the
 service of the congregation.
 At the age of thirty years he may approach to participate in lawsuits
 and judgements, and may take his place among the chiefs of the
 Thousands of Israel, the chiefs of the Hundreds, Fifties, and Tens, the
 Judges and the officers of their tribes, in al their families, [under the
 authority] of the sons of [Aar]on the Priests. And every head of family in
 the congregation who is chosen to hold office, [to go] and come before
 the congregation, shal strengthen his loins that he may perform his
 tasks among his brethren in accordance with his understanding and
 the perfection of his way. According to whether this is great or little, so
 shal one man be honoured more than another.
 When a man is advanced in years, he shal be given a duty in the
 [ser]vice of the congregation in proportion to his strength.
 No simpleton shal be chosen to hold office in the congregation of
Israel with regard to lawsuits or judgement, nor carry any responsibility
 in the congregation. Nor shal he hold any office in the war destined to
 vanquish the nations; his family shal merely inscribe him in the army
 register and he shal do his service in task-work in proportion to his
 capacity.
 The sons of Levi shal hold office, each in his place, under the
 authority of the sons of Aaron. They shal cause al the congregation to
 go and come, each man in his rank, under the direction of the heads of
 family of the congregation - the leaders, Judges, and officers,
 according to the number of al their hosts - under the authority of the
 sons of Zadok the Priests, [and] (under the direction) [of al the] heads
 of family of the congregation. And when the whole assembly is
 summoned for judgement, or for a Council of the Community, or for
 war, they shal sanctify them for three days that every one of its
 members may be prepared.
 These are the men who shal be caled to the Council of the
 Community .
 Al the wi[se men] of the congregation, the learned and the
 inte ligent, men whose way is perfect and men of ability, together with
 the tribal chiefs and al the Judges and officers, and the chiefs of the
 Thousands, [Hundreds,] I Fifties, and Tens, and the Levites, each man
 in the [cla]ss of his duty; these are the men of renown, the members of
 the assembly summoned to the Council of the Community in Israel
 before the sons of Zadok the Priests.
 And no man smitten with any human uncleanness shal enter the
 assembly of God; no man smitten with any of them shal be confirmed
 in his office in the congregation. No man smitten in his flesh, or
 paralysed in his feet or hands, or lame, or blind, or deaf, or dumb, or
 smitten in his flesh with a visible blemish; no old and tottery man
 unable to stay sti l in the midst of the congregation; none of these shal
 come to hold office among the congregation of the men of renown, for
 the Angels of Holiness are [with] their [congregation]. Should [one] of
 them have something to say to the Council of Holiness, let [him] be
 questioned privately; but let him not enter among [the congregation] for
 he is smitten.
[This sha l be the ass]embly of the men of renown [caled] to the
 meeting of the Council of the Community
 When God engenders
 93 (the Priest-) Messiah, he shal come with
 them [at] the head of the whole congregation of Israel with al [his
 brethren, the sons] of Aaron the Priests, [those caled] to the assembly,
 the men of renown; and they shal sit [before him, each man] in the
 order of his dignity. And then [the Mess]iah of Israel shal [come], and
 the chiefs of the [clans of Israel] sha l sit before him, [each] in the order
 of his dignity, according to [his place] in their camps and marches. And
 before them shal sit al the heads of [family of the congreg]ation, and
 the wise men of [the holy congregation,] each in the order of his dignity.
 And [when] they shal gather for the common [tab]le, to eat and [to
 drink] new wine, when the common table shal be set for eating and the
 new wine [poured] for drinking, let no man extend his hand over the
 firstfruits of bread and wine before the Priest; for [it is he] who shal
 bless the firstfruits of bread and wine, and shal be the first [to extend]
 his hand over the bread. Thereafter, the Messiah of Israel shal extend
 his hand over the bread, [and] al the congregation of the Community
 [sha l utter a] blessing, [each man in the order] of his dignity.
 It is according to this statute that they sha l proceed at every me[al at
 which] at least ten men are gathered together.
The War Scrol
 (IQM, 1Q33, 4Q491-7, 4Q471)
 The nineteen badly mutilated columns of this manuscript from Cave 1
 first appeared in 1954 in a posthumous work by E. L. Sukenik, and
 were re-edited in 1955, with an English introduction, under the title The
 Dead Sea Scrols of the Hebrew University (Jerusalem). A few
 detached scraps are represented by 1Q33 and copious fragments of
 six further manuscripts were discovered in Cave 4, and published in
 1982 by M. Bailet in DJD, VI (4Q491-6 or 4QMa-f). 4Q497 represents
 tiny fragments of a related text, and 4Q471 or 4QMg a shorter version
 of 1QM (cf. E. and H. Eshel, DJD, XXXVI, 439-45). For a new edition
 of al the War Scrol material except 4Q471 see J. Duhaime in J. H.
 Charlesworth et al., eds., The DSS I, Damascus Document, War
 Scro l and Related Documents, 1995, 80-203.
 Some of the 4Q fragments basicaly reflect the Cave 1 text and help
 to complete its gaps: Ma, Mb, Md and Me have been used for this
 purpose, especialy in columns I, XIV and XIX. On the other hand, Ma
 and Mc attest different recensions of the War Rule. Representative
 sections from these manuscripts wi l be translated separately.
 The contents of the War Rule are as folows:
 Proclamation of war against the Kittim (I) 
Reorganization of Temple worship (I) 
Programme of the forty years’ war (I) 
The trumpets ( I) 
The standards ( I-IV) 
Disposition and weapons of the front formations (v) 
Movements of the attacking infantry (VI) 
Disposition and movements of the cavalry (VI) 
Age of the soldiers (VI-V I) 
The camp (VI) 
Duties of the Priests and Levites 
(exhortation, trumpet signals) (V I-IV) 
Addresses and prayers of the battle liturgy (X-X I) 
Prayer recited at the moment of victory (X I) 
Thanksgiving ceremony (XIV) 
Battle against the Kittim (XV-XIX)
 Since the five last columns are more or less repetitious, there has
 been some doubt concerning the unity of the composition as a whole.
 Those who consider al nineteen columns to be the work of one writer
 find in column 1 an introduction, in columns I-XIV general rules, and in
 columns XV-XIX a ‘prophetic’ description of the final battle fought
 according to those rules. Other experts explain that columns XV-XIX
 are a Rule annexe dependent on the principal Rule (I-XIV).
 I am myself inclined to folow the theory first advanced by J. van der
 Ploeg (Le Rouleau de la guerre, Leiden, 1959, 11-22). The primitive
 work, represented in the present composition by columns 1 and XV
XIX, draws its inspiration from Daniel xi, 40-X I, 3, and describes the
 final battle against the Kittim. This account was later combined with the
 concept of a holy forty years’ war against the entire Gentile world, and
 was extended by the addition of a long series of Rules concerned with
 the military and religious preparation and with the conduct of the
 fighting (columns I-XIV). This appears to me to offer a more
 satisfactory explanation of the literary complexities of the manuscript
 than do the previous hypotheses. The text of the manuscripts from
 Cave 4, especialy Ma (4Q491) and Mc (4Q493)> indicate that diverse
 redactions of the War Rule coexisted in the Qumran library.
 The only certain pointer to the date of the compilation of the War
 Rule is that, since the author made use of the Book of Daniel written
 shortly after 164 BCE, his own work must have been started after that
 time. But a more accurate dating may be attempted by studying the
 military strategy and tactics described in the Scrol. Scholars are
 divided in their opinion as to whether the sons of light modeled them
 on Greek or Roman custom, or whether they merely drew their ideas
 from the Bible. Scripture doubtless exercised a definite influence on
the author of this Rule, but there is nevertheless a great deal of
 material completely foreign to it, and he must have possessed, in
 addition, at least some acquaintance with contemporary warfare.
 With Y. Yadin and other archaeologists and historians, I believe that
 both the weapons and the tactics of the War Rule correspond to the art
 of war practised by the Roman legion rather than by the Greek
 phalanx. In particular, the square shield (scutum) of the foot-soldier,
 and the buckler of the horseman (parma or clipeus), the battle array of
 three lines (acies triplex), the ‘gates of war’ or openings between the
 units (interva la), seem to be characteristica ly Roman. In addition, only
 the cavalry were to wear greaves - a custom introduced into the
 Roman army during the time of Julius Caesar in the middle of the first
 century BCE. This and similar details, as wel as the general
 representation of the Kittim as masters of the world, lead one to
 conclude that the War Rule was written some time after the middle of
 the first century BCE, and since the reference to the ‘king’ of the Kittim
 points to the Imperial epoch (after 27 BCE), the date of its composition
 should probably be placed in the last decades of the first century BCE
 or at the beginning of the first century CE.
 This work should not be mistaken for a manual of military warfare
 pure and simple. It is a theological writing, and the war of which it
 treats symbolizes the eternal struggle between the spirits of Light and
 Darkness. The phases of its battle are fixed in advance, its plan
 established and its duration predetermined. The opposing forces are
 equaly matched and only by the intervention of ‘the mighty hand of
 God’ is the balance between them to be disturbed when he deals an
 ‘everlasting blow’ to ‘Belial and a l the host of his kingdom’.
 I For the M[aster. The Rule of] War on the unleashing of the a tack of
 the sons of light against the company of the sons of darkness, the
 army of Belial: against the band of Edom, Moab,and the sons
 ofAmmon, and [against the army of the sons of the East and] the
 Philistines, and against the bands of the Ki tim of Assyriaand their
 alies the ungodly of the Covenant.
 The sons of Levi, Judah, and Benjamin, the exiles in the desert, shal
 battle against them in ... al their bands when the exiled sons of light
return from the Desert of the Peoples to camp in the Desert of
 Jerusalem; and after the battle they shal go up from there (to
 Jerusalem?).
 [The king] of the Kittim [shal enter] into Egypt, and in his time he
 shal set out in great wrath to wage war against the kings of the north,
 that his fury may destroy and cut the horn of [Israel]. This shal be a time
 of salvation for the people of God, an age of dominion for al the
 members of His company, and of everlasting destruction for al the
 company of Belial. The confusion of the sons of Japheth shal be
 [great] and Assyria shal fal unsuccoured. The dominion of the Kittim
 shal come to an end and iniquity shal be vanquished, leaving no
 remnant; [for the sons] of darkness there shal be no escape. [The sons
 of righteous]ness sha l shine over al the ends of the earth; they shal go
 on shining until al the seasons of darkness are consumed and, at the
 season appointed by God, His exalted greatness shal shine eternaly
 to the peace, blessing, glory, joy, and long life of a l the sons of light.
 On the day when the Kittim fal, there shal be battle and terrible
 carnage before the God of Israel, for that shal be the day appointed
 from ancient times for the battle of destruction of the sons of darkness.
 At that time, the assembly of gods and the hosts of men shal battle,
 causing great carnage; on the day of calamity, the sons of light shal
 battle with the company of darkness amid the shouts of a mighty
 multitude and the clamour of gods and men to (make manifest) the
 might of God. And it shal be a time of [great] tribulation for the people
 which God shal redeem; of al its afflictions none shal be as this, from
 its sudden beginning until its end in eternal redemption.
 On the day of their battle against the Kittim [they shal set out for]
 carnage. In three lots shal the sons of light brace themselves in battle
 to strike down iniquity, and in three lots shal Belial’s host gird itself to
 thrust back the company [of God. And when the hearts of the
 detach]ments of foot-soldiers faint, then sha l the might of God fortify
 [the hearts of the sons of light]. And with the seventh lot, the mighty
 hand of God shal bring down [the army of Belial, and al] the angels of
 his kingdom, and al the members [of his company in everlasting
 destruction] ...
 {... The priests, the Levites and the heads of [the tribes] ... the priests
as wel as the Levites and the divisions of} (4Q464) I the fifty-two
 heads of family of the congregation.
 They shal rank the chief Priests below the High Priest and his vicar.
 And the twelve chief Priests shal minister at the daily sacrifice before
 God, whereas the twenty-six leaders of the priestly divisions shal
 minister in their divisions.
 Below them, in perpetual ministry, shal be the chiefs of the Levites
 to the number of twelve, one for each tribe. The leaders of their
 divisions sha l minister each in his place.
 Below them shal be the chiefs of the tribes together with the heads
 of family of the congregation. They shal attend daily at the gates of the
 Sanctuary, whereas the leaders of their divisions, with their numbered
 men, shal attend at their appointed times, on new moons and on
 Sabbaths and on al the days of the year, their age being fifty years
 and over.
 These are the men who shal attend at holocausts and sacrifices to
 prepare sweet-smeling incense for the good pleasure of God, to
 atone for al His congregation, and to satisfy themselves perpetualy
 before Him at the table of glory. They shal arrange al these things
 during the season of the year of Release.
 During the remaining thirty-three years of the war, the men of
 renown, those summoned to the Assembly, together with al the heads
 of family of the congregation, shal choose for themselves fighting-men
 for al the lands of the nations. They shal arm for themselves warriors
 from al the tribes of Israel to enter the army year by year when they are
 summoned to war. But they shal arm no man for entry into the army
 during the years of Release, for they are Sabbaths of rest for Israel. In
 the thirty-five years of service, the war shal be fought during six; the
 whole congregation shal fight it together. And during the remaining
 twenty-nine years the war shal be divided. During the first year they
 shal fight against Aram-Naharaim; during the second, against the
 sons of Lud; during the third, against the remnant of the sons of Aram,
 against Uz and Hul and Togar and Mesha beyond the Euphrates;
 during the fourth and fifth, they shal fight against the sons of
 Arpachshad; during the sixth and seventh, against al the sons of
 Assyria and Persia and the East as far as the Great Desert; during the
eighth year they shal fight against the sons of Elam; during the ninth,
 against the sons of Ishmael and Keturah. In the ten years which folow,
 the war shal be divided against al the sons of Ham according to [their
 clans and in their ha]bitations; and during the ten years which remain,
 the war shal be divided against al [the sons of Japheth in] their
 habitations.
 [The Rule for the trumpets of Summons and the trumpe]ts of Alarm
 according to a l their duties
 ... [the trumpets of Summons shal sound for disposal in] I battle
 formations and to summon the foot-soldiers to advance when the
 gates of war shal open; and the trumpets of Alarm shal sound for
 massacre, and for ambush, and for pursuit when the enemy shal be
 smitten, and for retreat from battle.
 On the trumpets caling the congregation they shal write, The Ca led
 of God.
 On the trumpets caling the chiefs they shal write, The Princes of
 God.
 On the trumpets of the levies they shal write, The Army of God.
 On the trumpets of the men of renown and of the heads of family of
 the congregation gathered in the house of Assembly they shal write,
 Summoned by God to the Council of Holiness.
 On the trumpets of the camps they shal write, The Peace of God in
 the Camps of His Saints.
 And on the trumpets for breaking camp they shal write, The mighty
 Deeds of God shal Crush the Enemy, Puting to Flight al those who
 Hate Righteousness and bringing Shame on those who Hate Him.
 On the trumpets for battle formations they shal write, Formations of
 the Divisions of God for the Vengeance of His Wrath on the Sons of
 Darkness.
 On the trumpets summoning the foot-soldiers to advance towards
 the enemy formations when the gates of war are opened they shal
 write, Reminder of Vengeance in God’s Appointed Time.
 On the trumpets of massacre they shal write, The Mighty Hand of
 God in War shal Cause al the Ungodly Slain to Fal.
 On the trumpets of ambush they shal write, The Mysteries of God
sha l Undo Wickedness.
 On the trumpets of pursuit they shal write, God has Smi ten A l the
 Sons of Darkness; His Fury shal not End until They are Uterly
 Consumed.
 On the trumpets of retreat, when they retreat from battle to the
 formation, they sha l write, God has Reassembled.
 On the trumpets of return from battle against the enemy when they
 journey to the congregation in Jerusalem they shal write, Rejoicings of
 God in the Peaceful Return.
 The Rule for the standards of the whole congregation according to
 their levies
 On the great standard at the head of the people they shal write, The
 People of God, together with the names of Israel and Aaron, and the
 names of the twelve [tribes of Israel]. according to the order of their
 precedence.
 On the standards of the camp columns formed by three tribes they
 shal write, ... of God, together with the name of the leader of the camp
 ...
 On the standard of the tribe they shal write, Banner of God, together
 with the name of the leader of [the tribe and the names of the chiefs of
 its clans].
 [On the standard of the Myriad they shal write, ... of God, together
 with] the name of the chief of the Myriad and the names of the [leaders
 of its Thousands].
 [On the standard of the Thousand they shal write, ... of God, together
 with the name of the chief of the Thousand and the names of the
 leaders of its Hundreds].
 [On the standard of Hundred] ...
 IV On the standard of Merari they shal write, The Votive-Ofering of
 God, together with the name of the chief of Merari and the names of
 the leaders of its Thousands.
 On the standard of the Thousand they shal write, The Wrath of God
 is Kindled against Belial and against the Men of his Company,
 Leaving no Remnant, together with the name of the chief of the
 Thousand and the names of the leaders of its Hundreds.
On the standard of the Hundred they shal write, From God comes
 the Might of War against A l Sinful Flesh, together with the name of
 the chief of the Hundred and the names of the leaders of its Fifties.
 On the standard of the Fifty they shal write, The Stand of the
 Ungodly is Ended by the Power of God, together with the name of the
 chief of the Fifty and the names of the leaders of its Tens.
 On the standard of the Ten they shal write, Praised be God on the
 Ten-stringed Harp, together with the name of the chief of the Ten and
 the names of the nine men under his command.
 When they march out to battle they shal write on their standards, Truth
 of God, Justiceof God, Glory of God, Judgement of God, folowed by
 the whole ordered list of their names.
 When they approach for battle they shal write on their standards,
 Right Hand of God, Appointed Time of God, Tumult of God, Slain of
 God, folowed by the whole list of their names.
 When they return from battle they shal write on their standards,
 Honour of God, Majesty of God, Splendour of God, Glory of God,
 together with the whole list of their names.
 The Rule for the standards of the congregation
 When they set out for battle they shal write on the first standard
 Congregation of God, on the second standard Camps of God, on the
 third standard Tribes of God, on the fourth standard Clans of God, on
 the fifth standard Divisions of God, on the sixth standard Assembly of
 God, on the seventh standard The Caled of God, on the eighth
 standard Hosts of God; and they shal write the list of their names with
 al their order.
 When they approach for battle they shal write on their standards,
 War of God, Vengeance of God, Trial of God, Reward of God, Power
 of God, Retributions of God, Might of God, Extermination of God for
 al the Nations of Vanity; and they shal write on them the whole list of
 their names.
 When they return from battle they shal write on their standards,
 Salvation of God, Victory of God, Help of God, Support of God, Joy of
God, Thanksgivings of God, Praise of God, Peace of God.
 [The measurements of the standards.] The standard of the whole
 congregation shal be fourteen cubits long; the standard [of the three
 tribes,] thirteen cubits long; [the standard of the tribe,] twelve cubits;
 [the standard of the Myriad], eleven cubits; [the standard of the
 Thousand, ten cubits; the standard of the Hundred,] nine cubits; [the
 standard of the Fifty, eight] cubits; the standard of the Ten, s[even
 cubits] ...
 V And on the sh[ield of] the Prince of al the congregation they shal
 write his name, together with the names of Israel, Levi and Aaron, and
 the names of the twelve tribes of Israel according to the order of their
 precedence, with the names of their twelve chiefs.
 The Rule for the ordering of the batle divisions to complete a front
 formation when their host has reached its fu l number
 The formation shal consist of one thousand men ranked seven lines
 deep, each man standing behind the other.
 They shal al hold shields of bronze burnished like mirrors. The
 shield shal be edged with an interlaced border and with inlaid
 ornament, a work of art in pure gold and silver and bronze and
 precious stones, a many-coloured design worked by a craftsman. The
 length of the shield shal be two and a half cubits and its width one and
 a half cubits.
 In their hands they shal hold a spear and a sword. The length of the
 spear shal be seven cubits, of which the socket and spike shal
 measure half a cubit. The socket shal be edged with three embossed
 interlaced rings of pure gold and silver and bronze, a work of art. The
 inlaid ornaments on both edges of the ring shal be bordered with
 precious stones - patterned bands worked by a craftsman - and
 (embossed) with ears of corn. Between the rings, the socket shal be
 embossed with artistry like a pi lar. The spike shal be made of bri liant
 white iron, the work of a craftsman; in its centre, pointing towards the
 tip, sha l be ears of corn in pure gold.
 The swords shal be made of pure iron refined by the smelter and
blanched to resemble a mirror, the work of a craftsman; on both sides
 (of their blades) pointing towards the tip, figured ears of corn shal be
 embossed in pure gold, and they shal have two straight borders on
 each side. The length of the sword shal be one and a half cubits and
 its width four fingers. The width of the scabbard shal be four thumbs.
 There shal be four palms to the scabbard (from the girdle), and it shal
 be attached (to the girdle) on both sides for a length of five palms (?).
 The hilt of the sword shal be of pure horn worked by a craftsman, with
 patterned bands in gold and silver and precious stones... vacat
 When... shal stand, the ... they shal order the seven battle divisions,
 division after division... thirty cubits where the me[n of the division] sha l
 stand...
 VI seven times and shal return to their positions.
 And after them, three divisions of foot-soldiers shal advance and
 shal station themselves between the formations, and the first division
 shal hurl seven javelins of war towards the enemy formation. On the
 point of the javelins they shal write, ShiningJavelinof the Power of
 God; and on the darts of the second division they shal write, Bloody
 Spikes to Bring Down the Slain by the Wrath of God; and on the
 javelins of the third division they sha l write, Flaming Blade to Devour
 the Wicked Struck Down by the Judgement of God. Al these shal hurl
 their javelins seven times and shal afterwards return to their positions.
 Then two divisions of foot-soldiers shal advance and shal station
 themselves between the two formations. The first division shal be
 armed with a spear and a shield, and the second with a shield and a
 sword, to bring down the slain by the judgement of God, and to bend
 the enemy formation by the power of God, to pay the reward of their
 wickedness to al the nations of vanity. And sovereignty shal be to the
 God of Israel, and He shal accomplish mighty deeds by the saints of
 his people.
 Seven troops of horsemen shal also station themselves to the right
 and to the left of the formation; their troops shal stand on this (side)
 and on that, seven hundred horsemen on one flank and seven hundred
horsemen on the other. Two hundred horsemen shal advance with the
 thousand men of the formation of foot-soldiers; and they shal likewise
 station themselves on both [flanks] of the camp. Altogether there shal
 be four thousand six hundred (men), and one thousand cavalrymen
 with the men of the army formations, fifty to each formation. The
 horsemen, together with the cavalry of the army shal number six
 thousand: five hundred to each tribe.
 The horses advancing into battle with the foot-soldiers shal al be
 sta lions; they sha l be swift, sensitive of mouth, and sound of wind, and
 of the required age, trained for war, and accustomed to noise and to
 every (kind of) sight. Their riders shal be galant fighting men and
 ski led horsemen, and their age shal be from thirty to forty-five years.
 The horsemen of the army shal be from forty to fifty years old. They
 [and their mounts shal wear breast-plates,] helmets, and greaves; they
 shal carry in their hands bucklers, and a spear [eight cubits] long. [The
 horseman advancing with the foot-soldiers shal carry] bows and
 arrows and javelins of war. They shal al hold themselves prepared ...
 of God and to spil the blood of the wicked ...
 VI The men of the army shal be from forty to fifty years old. The
 inspectors of the camps shal be from fifty to sixty years old. The
 officers sha l be from forty to fifty years old. The despoilers of the slain,
 the plunderers of booty, the cleansers of the land, the keepers of the
 baggage, and those who furnish the provisions shal be from twenty
five to thirty years old.
 No boy or woman shal enter their camps, from the time they leave
 Jerusalem and march out to war until they return. No man who is lame,
 or blind, or crippled, or afflicted with a lasting bodily blemish, or smitten
 with a bodily impurity, none of these shal march out to war with them.
 They shal al be freely enlisted for war, perfect in spirit and body and
 prepared for the Day of Vengeance. And no man shal go down with
 them on the day of battle who is impure because of his ‘fount’, for the
 holy angels shal be with their hosts. And there shal be a space of
 about two thousand cubits between al their camps for the place
serving as a latrine, so that no indecent nakedness may be seen in the
 surroundings of their camps.
 When the battle formations are marshaled facing the enemy
 formation facing formation, seven Priests of the sons of Aaron shal
 advance from the middle gates to the place between the formations.
 They shal be clothed in vestments of white cloth of flax, in a fine linen
 tunic and fine linen breeches; and they shal be girdled with fine cloth of
 flax embroidered with blue, purple, and scarlet thread, a many
coloured design worked by a craftsman. And on their heads they shal
 wear mitred turbans. These shal be battle raiment; they shal not take
 them into the Sanctuary.
 The first Priest shal advance before the men of the formation to
 strengthen their hand for battle, and the six other Priests shal hold in
 their hands the trumpets of Summons, and the trumpets of the
 Reminder, and the trumpets of Alarm (for massacre), and the trumpets
 of Pursuit, and the trumpets of Retreat. And when the Priests advance
 to the place between the formations, seven Levites shal accompany
 them bearing in their hands seven rams’ horns; and three officers of
 the Levites shal walk before the Priests and Levites. The Priests shal
 sound the two trumpets of Sum[mons for the gates of] war to open fifty
 shields (wide) and the foot-soldiers shal advance, fifty from one gate
 [and fifty from the other. With them shal advance] the officers of the
 Levites, and they shal advance with every formation according to al
 this R[ule].
 [The Priests shal sound the trumpets, and two divisions of foot-]
 soldiers [sha l advance] from the gate [and shal] station [themselves]
 between the two [formations] ... V I the trumpets shal sound to direct
 the slingers until they have cast seven times. Afterwards, the Priests
 shal sound for them the trumpets of Retreat and they shal return to the
 flank of the first formation to take up their position.
 Then the Priests shal sound the trumpets of Summons and three
 divisions of foot-soldiers sha l advance from the gates and shal station
 themselves between the formations; the horsemen shal be on their
 flanks, to the right and to the left. The Priests shal sound a sustained
 blast on the trumpets for battle array, and the columns shal move to
their (battle) array, each man to his place. And when they have taken
 up their stand in three arrays, the Priests shal sound a second signal,
 soft and sustained, for them to advance until they are close to the
 enemy formation. They shal seize their weapons, and the Priests shal
 then blow a shril staccato blast on the six trumpets of Massacre to
 direct the battle, and the Levites and al the blowers of rams’ horns
 shal sound a mighty alarm to terrify the heart of the enemy, and
 therewith the javelins shal fly out to bring down the slain. Then the
 sound of the horns shal cease, but the Priests shal continue to blow a
 shri l staccato blast on the trumpets to direct the battle until they have
 thrown seven times against the enemy formation. And then they shal
 sound a soft, a sustained, and a shril sound on the trumpets of
 Retreat.
 It is according to this Rule that the Priests shal sound the trumpets
 for the three divisions. With the first throw, the [Priests] sha l sound [on
 the trumpets] a mighty alarm to direct the ba[ttle until they have thrown
 seven times. Then] the Priests [shal sound] for them on the trumpets
 [of Retreat a soft, a sustained, and a shri l sound, and they shal return]
 to their positions in the formation.
 [Then the Priests shal blow the trumpets of Summons and the two
 divisions of foot-soldiers sha l advance from the gates] and shal stand
 [between the formations. And the Priests shal then blow the trumpets
 of] Massacre, [and the Levites and al the blowers of rams’ horns shal
 sound an alarm, a mighty blast, and therewith] IX they shal set about to
 bring down the slain with their hands. Al the people shal cease their
 clamour but the Priests shal continue to blow the trumpets of
 Massacre to direct the battle until the enemy is smitten and put to flight;
 and the Priests shal blow to direct the battle.
 And when they are smitten before them, the Priests shal sound the
 trumpets of Summons and al the foot-soldiers shal raly to them from
 the midst of the front formations, and the six divisions, together with the
 fighting division, sha l take up their stations. Altogether, they sha l be
 seven formations: twenty-eight thousand fighting men and six thousand
 horsemen.
 Al these shal pursue the enemy to destroy him in an everlasting
 destruction in the battle of God. The Priests shal sound for them the
trumpets of Pursuit, and they shal deploy against al the enemy in a
 pursuit to destruction; and the horsemen shal thrust them back on the
 flanks of the battle until they are utterly destroyed.
 And as the slain men fal, the Priests shal trumpet from afar; they
 shal not approach the slain lest they be defiled with unclean blood. For
 they are holy, and they shal not profane the anointing of their
 priesthood with the blood of nations of vanity.
 The Rule for changes in batle order to form the position of a squa[re
 with towers], a concave line with towers, a convex line with towers, a
 sha low convex line obtained by the advance of the centre, or (by the
 advance of) both flanks to terrify the enemy
 The shields of the towers shal be three cubits long and their spears
 eight cubits. The tower shal advance from the formation and shal have
 one hundred shields to each side; in this [manner,] the tower shal be
 surrounded on three sides by three hundred shields. And it shal also
 have two gates, [one to the right] and one to the left.
 They shal write on al the shields of the towers: on the first, Michael,
 [on the second, Gabriel, on the third,] Sariel, and on the fourth,
 Raphael. Michael and Gabriel [shal stand on the right, and Sariel and
 Raphael on the left] ... they shal set an ambush to...
 ... X our camps and to keep us from al that is indecent and evil.
 Furthermore, (Moses) taught us, ‘Thou art in the midst of us, a
 mighty God and terrible, causing al our enemies to flee before [us].’
 He taught our generations in former times saying, When you draw
 near to batle, the Priest sha l rise and speak to the people saying,
 Hear, O Israel! You draw near to batle this day against your
 enemies. Do not fear! Do not let your hearts be afraid! Do not be
 [terrified], and have no fear! For your God goes with you to fight for
 you against your enemies that He may deliver you’ (Deut. XX, 2-4).
 Our officers shal speak to al those prepared for battle. They shal
 strengthen by the power of God the freely devoted of heart, and shal
 make al the fearful of heart withdraw; they shal fortify al the mighty
 men of war. They shal recount that which Thou [saidst] through Moses:
 When you go to war in your land against the oppressor who
 oppresses you, [you] shal blow the trumpets, and you shal be
remembered before your God and shal be saved from your enemies
 (Num. x, 9).
 O God of Israel, who is like Thee 
in heaven or on earth? 
Who accomplishes deeds and mighty works like Thine? 
Who is like Thy people Israel 
which Thou hast chosen for Thyself 
from al the peoples of the lands; 
the people of the saints of the Covenant, 
instructed in the laws 
and learned in wisdom ... 
who have heard the voice of Majesty 
and have seen the Angels of Holiness, 
whose ear has been unstopped, 
and who have heard profound things?
 [Thou, O God, hast created] the expanse of the heavens 
and the host of heavenly lights, 
the tasks of the spirits 
and the dominion of the Holy Ones, 
the treasury of glory 
[and the canopy of the] clouds. 
(Thou art Creator of) the earth 
and of the laws dividing it into desert and grassland;
 of al that it brings forth 
and of al its fruits [according to their kinds;] 
of the circle of the seas 
and of the gathering-place of the rivers 
and of the divisions of the deeps; 
of the beasts and birds 
and of the shape of Adam 
and of the gene[rations of] his [seed]; 
of the confusion of tongues 
and of the scattering of the peoples, 
of the dweling in clans 
and of the inheritance of lands; 
...of the sacred seasons 
and of the cycles of the years 
and of time everlasting.
 XI Truly the battle is Thine! Their bodies are crushed by the might of
 Thy hand and there is no man to bury them.
 Thou didst deliver Goliath of Gath, the mighty warrior, into the hands
 of David Thy servant, because in place of the sword and in place of the
 spear he put his trust in Thy great Name; for Thine is the battle. Many
 times, by Thy great Name, did he triumph over the Philistines. Many
 times hast Thou also delivered us by the hand of our kings through Thy
 loving-kindness, and not in accordance with our works by which we
 have done evil, nor according to our rebelious deeds.
 Truly the battle is Thine and the power from Thee! It is not ours. Our
 strength and the power of our hands accomplish no mighty deeds
 except by Thy power and by the might of Thy great valour. This Thou
 hast taught us from ancient times, saying, A star sha l come out of
 Jacob, and a sceptre shal rise out of Israel. He shal smite the
 temples of Moab and destroy al the children of Sheth. He shal rule
 out of Jacob and shal cause the survivors of the city to perish. The
 enemy shal be his possession and Israel shal accomplish mighty
 deeds (Num. xxiv, 17-19).
 By the hand of Thine anointed, who discerned Thy testimonies, Thou
 hast revealed to us the [times] of the battles of Thy hands that Thou
 mayest glorify Thyself in our enemies by leveling the hordes of Belial,
 the seven nations of vanity, by the hand of Thy poor whom Thou hast
 redeemed [by Thy might] and by the fulness of Thy marvelous power.
 (Thou hast opened) the door of hope to the melting heart: Thou wilt do
 to them as Thou didst to Pharaoh, and to the captains of his chariots in
 the Red Sea. Thou wilt kindle the downcast of spirit and they shal be a
 flaming torch in the straw to consume ungodliness and never to cease
 ti l iniquity is destroyed.
 From ancient times Thou hast fore[told the hour] when the might of
 Thy hand (would be raised) against the Kittim, saying, Assyria sha l
fa l by the sword of no man, the sword of no mere man shal devour
 him (Isa. xxxi, 8). For Thou wilt deliver into the hands of the poor the
 enemies from al the lands, to humble the mighty of the peoples by the
 hand of those bent to the dust, to bring upon the [head of Thine
 enemies] the reward of the wicked, and to justify Thy true judgement in
 the midst of al the sons of men, and to make for Thyself an everlasting
 Name among the people [whom Thou hast redeemed] ... of battles to
 be magnified and sanctified in the eyes of the remnant of the peoples,
 that they may know... when Thou chastisest Gog and al his assembly
 gathered about him ...
 For Thou wilt fight with them from heaven... X I For the multitude of
 the Holy Ones [is with Thee] in heaven, and the host of the Angels is in
 Thy holy abode, praising Thy Name. And Thou hast established in [a
 community] for Thyself the elect of Thy holy people. [The list] of the
 names of al their host is with Thee in the abode of Thy holiness; [the
 reckoning of the saints] is in Thy glorious dweling-place. Thou hast
 recorded for them, with the graving-tool of life, the favours of [Thy]
 blessings and the Covenant of Thy peace, that Thou mayest reign
 [over them] for ever and ever and throughout al the eternal ages. Thou
 wilt muster the [hosts of] Thine [el]ect, in their Thousands and Myriads,
 with Thy Holy Ones [and with al] Thine Angels, that they may be mighty
 in battle, [and may smite] the rebels of the earth by Thy great
 judgements, and that [they may triumph] together with the elect of
 heaven.
 For Thou art [terrible], O God, in the glory of Thy kingdom, and the
 congregation of Thy Holy Ones is among us for everlasting succour.
 We wil despise kings, we wil mock and scorn the mighty; for our Lord
 is holy, and the King of Glory is with us together with the Holy Ones.
 Valiant [warriors] of the angelic host are among our numbered men,
 and the Hero of war is with our congregation; the host of His spirits is
 with our foot-soldiers and horsemen. [They are as] clouds, as clouds of
 dew (covering) the earth, as a shower of rain shedding judgement on
 al that grows on the earth.
 Rise up, O Hero! 
Lead off Thy captives, O Glorious One! 
Gather up Thy spoils, O Author of mighty deeds! 
Lay Thy hand on the neck of Thine enemies 
and Thy feet on the pile of the slain! 
Smite the nations, Thine adversaries, 
and devour the flesh of the sinner with Thy sword! 
Fi l Thy land with glory 
and Thine inheritance with blessing! 
Let there be a multitude of cattle in Thy fields, 
and in Thy palaces silver and gold and precious stones!
 O Zion, rejoice greatly! 
O Jerusalem, show thyself amidst jubilation! 
Rejoice, a l you cities of Judah; 
keep your gates ever open 
that the hosts of the nations 
may be brought in!
 Their kings shal serve you 
and al your oppressors shal bow down before you; 
[they sha l lick] the dust [of your feet]. 
Shout for joy, [O daughters of] my people! 
Deck yourselves with glorious jewels 
and rule over [the kingdoms of the nations! 
Sovereignty shal be to the Lord] 
and everlasting dominion to Israel.
 ... X I (The High Priest) shal come, and his brethren the Priests and
 the Levites, and al the elders of the army shal be with him; and
 standing, they shal bless the God of Israel and al His works of truth,
 and shal execrate Belial there and al the spirits of his company.
 Speaking, they shal say:
 Blessed be the God of Israel for al His holy purpose and for His
 works of truth! Blessed be al those who [serve] Him in righteousness
 and who know Him by faith!
 Cursed be Belial for his sinful purpose and may he be execrated for
 his wicked rule! Cursed be al the spirits of his company for their
ungodly purpose and may they be execrated for al their service of
 uncleanness!
 Truly they are the company of Darkness, but the company of God is
 one of [eternal] Light.
 [Thou art] the God of our fathers; we bless Thy Name for ever. We
 are the people of Thine [inheritance]; Thou didst make a Covenant with
 our fathers, and wilt establish it with their children throughout eternal
 ages. And in al Thy glorious testimonies there has been a reminder of
 Thy mercies among us to succour the remnant, the survivors of Thy
 Covenant, that they might [recount] Thy works of truth and the
 judgements of Thy marvelous mighty deeds.
 Thou hast created us for Thyself, [O God], that we may be an
 everlasting people. Thou hast decreed for us a destiny of Light
 according to Thy truth. And the Prince of Light Thou hast appointed
 from ancient times to come to our support; [al the sons of
 righteousness are in his hand], and al the spirits of truth are under his
 dominion. But Belial, the Angel of Malevolence, Thou hast created for
 the Pit; his [rule] is in Darkness and his purpose is to bring about
 wickedness and iniquity. A l the spirits of his company, the Angels of
 Destruction, walk according to the precepts of Darkness; towards
 them is their [inclination].
 But let us, the company of Thy truth, rejoice in Thy mighty hand and
 be glad for Thy salvation, and exult because of Thy suc[cour and]
 peace. O God of Israel, who can compare with Thee in might? Thy
 mighty hand is with the poor. Which angel or prince can compare with
 Thy [redeeming] succour? [For Thou hast appointed] the day of battle
 from ancient times ... [to come to the aid] of truth and to destroy
 iniquity, to bring Darkness low and to magnify Light ... to stand for ever,
 and to destroy al the sons of Darkness ...
 ... XIV like the fire of His wrath against the idols of Egypt.
 And when they have risen from the slain to return to the camp, they
 shal al sing the Psalm of Return. And in the morning, they shal wash
 their garments, and shal cleanse themselves of the blood of the
 bodies of the ungodly. And they shal return to the positions in which
 they stood in battle formation before the fal of the enemy slain, and
there they shal al bless the God of Israel. Rejoicing together, they shal
 praise His Name, and speaking they shal say:
 Blessed be the God of Israel 
who keeps mercy towards His Covenant, 
and the appointed times of salvation 
with the people He has delivered!
 He has caled them that staggered 
to [marvelous mighty deeds], 
and has gathered in the assembly of the nations 
to destruction without any remnant. 
He has lifted up in judgement the fearful of heart 
and has opened the mouth of the dumb 
that they might praise {the mighty} (4Q491) works [of God]. 
He has taught war [to the hand] of the feeble 
and steadied the trembling knee; 
he has braced the back of the smitten. 
Among the poor in spirit [there is power] 
over the hard of heart, 
and by the perfect of way 
al the nations of wickedness have come to an end: 
not one of their mighty men stands, 
but we are the remnant [of Thy people.]
 {Blessed be} (4Q491) Thy Name, O God of mercies, 
who hast kept the Covenant with our fathers. 
In al our generations Thou hast bestowed 
Thy wonderful favours on the remnant [of Thy people] 
under the dominion of Belial. 
During al the mysteries of his Malevolence 
he has not made [us] stray from Thy Covenant; 
Thou hast driven his spirits [of destruction] 
far from [us], 
Thou hast preserved the soul of Thy redeemed 
[when the men] of his dominion {acted wickedly) (4Q491). 
Thou hast raised the falen by Thy strength, 
but hast cut down the great in height 
[and hast brought down the lofty]. 
There is no rescue for al their mighty men 
and no refuge for their swift men; 
Thou givest to their honoured men a reward of shame, 
al their empty existence [hast Thou turned to nothing].
 But we, Thy holy people, wi l praise Thy Name 
because of the works of Thy truth. 
We wil exalt Thy splendour because of Thy mighty deeds 
[in a l the] seasons and appointed times for ever, 
at the coming of day and at nightfal 
and at the departure of evening and morning. 
For great {is the design of Thy glory} (4Q49I) 
and of Thy wonderful mysteries on high 
that [Thou shouldst raise up] dust before Thee 
and lay low the ‘gods’.
 Rise up, rise up, O God of gods, 
raise Thyself in mig{ht, King of Kings} (4.Q491)! 
May al the sons of Darkness [scatter before Thee]! 
The light of Thy greatness [shal shine forth] 
[on ‘go] ds’ and men. 
[It sha l be like a fire bur]ning 
in the dark places of perdition; 
it sha l burn the sinners in the perdition of hel, 
in an eternal blaze 
... in a l the eternal seasons.
 They shal recite there [al the] war [hy]mns. Afterwards they shal
 return to [their] cam[ps] ... XV For this shal be a time of distress for
 Israel, [and of the summons] to war against al the nations. There shal
 be eternal deliverance for the company of God, but destruction for al
 the nations of wickedness.
 Al those [who are ready] for battle shal march out and shal pitch
their camp before the king of the Kittim and before al the host of Belial
 gathered about him for the Day [of Revenge] by the Sword of God.
 Then the High Priest shal rise, with the [Priests], his brethren, and
 the Levites, and al the men of the army, and he shal recite aloud the
 Prayer in Time of War [written in the Book] of the Rule concerning this
 time, and also al their Hymns. He shal marshal al the formations
 there, as is [written in the Book of War], and the priest appointed for
 the Day of Revenge by the voice of al his brethren shal go forward to
 strengthen the [hearts of the fighting men]. Speaking, he shal say:
 Be strong and valiant; be warriors! Fear not! Do not be [confused
 and do not let your hearts be afraid!] Do not be fearful; fear them not!
 Do not fal back ... for they are a congregation of wickedness and al
 their works are in Darkness; they tend towards Darkness. [They make
 for themselves] a refuge [in falsehood] and their power shal vanish like
 smoke. Al the multitudes of their community... shal not be found.
 Damned as they are, al the substance of their wickedness shal
 quickly fade, like a flower in [the summer-time].
 [Be brave and] strong for the battle of God! For this day is [the time
 of the battle of] God against al the host of Belial, [and of the judgement
 of] al flesh. The God of Israel lifts His hand in His marvelous [might]
 against al the spirits of wickedness. [The hosts of] the warrior ‘gods’
 gird themselves for battle, [and the] formations of the Holy Ones
 [prepare themselves], for the Day [of Revenge] ... XVI . For the God of
 Israel has caled out the sword against al the nations, and He wil do
 mighty deeds by the saints of His people.
 And they shal obey al this Rule [on] the [day] when they stand
 before the camps of the Ki tim
 The Priests shal afterwards sound for them the trumpets of the
 Reminder, and the gates of war shal open; the foot-soldiers shal
 advance and the columns shal station themselves between the
 formations. The Priests shal sound for them the signal, ‘Battle Array’,
 and at the sound of the trumpets the columns [shal deploy] until every
 man is in his place. The Priests shal then sound a second signal [for
 them to advance], and when they are within throwing distance of the
 formation of the Kittim, each man shal seize his weapon of war. Then
the six [Priests shal blow on] the trumpets of Massacre a shril
 staccato blast to direct the battle, and the Levites and al the blowers of
 rams’ horns shal sound [a battle alarm], a mighty clamour; and with
 this clamour they shal begin to bring down the slain from among the
 Kittim. A l the people shal cease their clamour, [but the Priests shal
 continue to] sound the trumpets of Massacre, and battle shal be fought
 against the Kittim (vacat). And when [Belial] girds himself to come to
 the aid of the sons of darkness, and when the slain among the foot
soldiers begin to fal by the mysteries of God, and when al the men
 appointed for battle are put to ordeal by them, the Priests shal sound
 the trumpets of Summons for another formation of the reserve to
 advance into battle; and they shal take up their stand between the
 formations. And for those engaged [in battle] they shal sound the
 ‘Retreat’.
 Then the High Priest shal draw near, and standing before the
 formation, he shal strengthen by the power of God their hearts [and
 hands] in His battle. Speaking he shal say: ... the slain, for you have
 heard from ancient times through the mysteries of God ...
 ... XV I He wil pay their reward with burning [fire by the hand of]
 those tested in the crucible. He wi l sharpen His weapons and wil not
 tire until al the wicked nations are destroyed. Remember the
 judgement [of Nadab and Ab]ihu, sons of Aaron, by whose judgement
 God showed Himself holy in the eyes [of Israel. But Eleazar] and
 Ithamar He confirmed in an everlasting [priestly] Covenant.
 Be strong and fear not; [for they tend] towards chaos and confusion,
 and they lean on that which is not and [shal not be. To the God] of
 Israel belongs al that is and shal be; [He knows] al the happenings of
 eternity. This is the day appointed by Him for the defeat and overthrow
 of the Prince of the kingdom of wickedness, and He wil send eternal
 succour to the company of His redeemed by the might of the princely
 Angel of the kingdom of Michael. With everlasting light He wil
 enlighten with joy [the children] of Israel; peace and blessing shal be
 with the company of God. He wil raise up the kingdom of Michael in
 the midst of the gods, and the realm of Israel in the midst of al flesh.
 Righteousness shal rejoice on high, and al the children of His truth
 shal jubilate in eternal knowledge. And you, the sons of His Covenant,
be strong in the ordeal of God! His mysteries shal uphold you until He
 moves His hand for His trials to come to an end.
 After these words, the Priests shal sound to marshal them into the
 divisions of the formation; and at the sound of the trumpets the
 columns shal deploy until [every man is] in his place. Then the Priests
 shal sound a second signal on the trumpets for them to advance, and
 when the [foot-]soldiers approach throwing distance of the formation of
 the Kittim, every man shal seize his weapon of war. The Priests shal
 blow the trumpets of Massacre, [and the Levites and al] the blowers of
 rams’ horns shal sound a battle alarm, and the foot-soldiers shal
 stretch out their hands against the host of the Kittim; [and at the sound
 of the alarm] they shal begin to bring down the slain. Al the people
 shal cease their clamour, but the Priests shal continue to blow [the
 trumpets of Massacre and battle shal be fought against the Kittim.]
 ... and in the third lot ... that the slain may fal [by the mysteries] of
 God ... XV I [In the seventh lot] when the great hand of God is raised in
 an everlasting blow against Belial and al the hosts of his kingdom, and
 when Assyria is pursued [amidst the shouts of Angels] and the clamour
 of the Holy Ones, the sons of Japheth shal fal to rise no more. The
 Kittim shal be crushed without [remnant, and no man shal be saved
 from among them].
 [At that time, on the day] when the hand of the God of Israel is raised
 against al the multitude of Belial, the Priests shal blow [the six
 trumpets] of the Reminder and al the battle formations shal raly to
 them and shal divide against al the [camps of the] Kittim to destroy
 them utterly. [And as] the sun speeds to its setting on that day, the High
 Priest shal stand, together [with the Levites] who are with him and the
 [tribal] chiefs [and the elders] of the army, and they shal bless the God
 of Israel there. Speaking they shal say:
 Blessed be Thy Name, O God [of gods], for Thou hast worked great
 marvels [with Thy people]! Thou hast kept Thy Covenant with us from of
 old, and hast opened to us the gates of salvation many times. For the
 [sake of Thy Covenant Thou hast removed our misery, in accordance
 with] Thy [goodness] towards us. Thou hast acted for the sake of Thy
 Name, O God of righteousness ... [Thou hast worked a marvelous]
 miracle [for us], and from ancient times there never was anything like it.
For Thou didst know the time appointed for us and it has appeared
 [before us] this day ... [Thou hast shown] us [Thy merciful hand] in
 everlasting redemption by causing [the dominion of] the enemy to fal
 back for ever. (Thou hast shown us) Thy mighty hand in [a stroke of
 destruction in the war against al] our enemies.
 And now the day speeds us to the pursuit of their multitude ... Thou
 hast delivered up the hearts of the brave so that they stand no more.
 For Thine is the power, and the battle is in Thy hands! ... XIX For our
 Sovereign is holy and the King of Glory is with us; the [host of his
 spirits is with our foot-soldiers and horsemen. They are as clouds, as
 clouds of dew] covering the earth, and as a shower of rain shedding
 righteousness on [al that grows there].
 [Rise up, O Hero! 
Lead off Thy captives, O Glorious One! 
Gather up] Thy spoils, O Author of mighty deeds! 
Lay Thy hand on the neck of Thine enemies 
and Thy feet [on the pile of the slain! 
Smite the nations, Thine adversaries], 
and devour flesh with Thy sword! 
Fi l Thy land with glory 
and Thine inheritance with blessing!
 [Let there be a multitude of cattle in Thy fields, 
and in] Thy palaces 
[silver and gold and precious stones]!
 O Zion, rejoice greatly! 
Rejoice al you cities of Judah! 
[Keep your gates ever open 
that the] hosts of the nations 
[may be brought in]! 
Their kings shal serve you 
and al your oppressors shal bow down before you; 
[they sha l lick the dust of your feet. 
Shout for joy, O daughters of] my people! 
Deck yourselves with glorious jewels 
[and rule over the kingdom of the nations! 
Sovereignty shal be to the Lord] 
and everlasting dominion to Israel.
 (1QM combined with 4QMb=4Q492)
 {Then they shal gather in} the camp that night to rest until the morning.
 And in the morning {they shal go to the place where the formation
 stood before the} warriors of the Kittim fel, as wel as the multitudes of
 Assyria, and the hosts of al the [assembled] nations {to discover
 whether} the multitude of the stricken are dead {with none to bury
 them}, those who fel there under the Sword of God. And the High
 Priest shal draw near, [with his vicar, and the chief Priests] {and the
 Levites} with the Prince of the battle, and al the chiefs of the
 formations and their numbered men; [they shal return to the positions
 which they held before the] slain [began to fal] from among the Kittim,
 and there they shal praise the God {the Most High} ...
The War Scrol from Cave 4
 (4Q491, 493)
 Of the two groups of fragments belonging to Ma (4Q491), the first
 echoes sections from columns I, VI, XVI and XVI of 1QM, but it also
 contains passages without paralels there. The second unit, a poem,
 entitled by the editor ‘The Song of Michael and of the Just’, is
 additional to 1QM.
 As for the manuscript designated Mc (4Q493), its surviving lines
 reca l 1QM VI, xvi, etc., but do not represent the same recension.
 Ma = 4Q491, frs. 1-3
 ... There shal be one thousand cubits between the [camp and the
 latrine and] no nakedness [whatever] shal be seen in their
 surroundings. And when they set out to prepare the battle [to cur]b [the
 enemy, there shal be] among them some exempted in the lot of each
 tribe according to their numbered men for [each] day’s duty. On that
 day, some men from al their tribes shal set out from their camps
 towards the House of Meeting ... the [Priest]s, the Levites, and al the
 chiefs of the camps shal go out towards them. They wil pass there
 before ... according to the Thousands, Hundreds, Fifties and Tens.
 Whoever shal not [be clean because of his ‘fount’ on] that [nig]ht shal
 not go with them to the battle, for the holy angels shal be with their
 formations together ... When the formation caled up for that day’s
 battle to pass to al ... of the war, three formations shal stand,
 formations behind formations. They shal set a space between [al] the
 formations [and they shal go out] to battle in succession. These are the
 [foot-soldie]rs and beside them the [horse]men. [They shal stand
between the forma]tions. And if they set up an ambush for a formation,
 the three ambushing formations shal be at a distance and shal not
 ri[se] ... of the war and they [shal he]ar the trumpets of Alarm and the
 [foot-]soldiers [wi l begin to bring dow]n the guilty dead. Afterwards the
 ambush shal rise from its hiding-place arranged in formations. The
 reassembly: from the right and from the left, from be[hind and from the
 front, f]our direction[s] ... in the battles of annihilation. And al the
 formations engaged in combat with the ene[my wil be in] one [place.
 The f]irst formation [wi l go out to the battle] and the second stand ... on
 their post. With the completion of their time, the first shal return and
 rise ... The sec[ond] ... When the battle is joined. And the second
 formation shal have completed its time and they shal return and st[and
 on their post]. And the th[ird] ...
 And the chief Priest and his brethren, [the Priests, and] the Levites
 and the m[en of the orde]r [shal stand]. And the Priests shal blow the
 trumpets continuously ... and a girdle of fine cloth of flax embroidered
 with blue, purple and scarlet threads, a many-coloured design
 produced by a craftsman, and a fine linen tunic and fine linen breeches
 and a mitred turban [on their heads]. They shal not take them to the
 sanctuary f[or] they are ba[ttle] raiments. According to a l this rule ...
The Book of War
 (4Q285, 11Q14)
 A colection of ten smal fragments, designated by J. T. Milik as
 Serekh ha-Milhamah or Rule of War, are akin to the War Scrol,
 probably representing its missing end section. A lusions are found to
 Levites blowing trumpets (fr. 8), to the archangel Michael (fr. 10), to the
 Prince of the Congregation, identified as the Branch of David (frs. 4
 and 7), as wel as to the Kittim and their slain (frs. 2, 4, 7), al familiar
 from 1QM. The poorly preserved benediction (fr. 8) can be
 reconstructed with the help of 11Q14 which contains, however, some
 notable variants. Fragment 4 seems to identify the defeated opponent
 as the biblical Gog (Ezek. xxxix), the chief foe of the final age, here no
 doubt equated with the king of the Kittim. Fragment 7, erroneously
 labe led by some as the ‘Pierced Messiah fragment’, is based on an
 interpretation of Isa. x, 34-xi, 1, and should be read in connection with
 4Q161, frs. 8-10, an Isaiah Commentary from Cave 4, and the
 Blessing of the Prince of the Congregation (1QSb, v, 20-29), both
 referring to the triumphant Davidic Messiah, expected to put an
 opponent, no doubt the king of the Kittim, to death. Only frs. 1, 4, 7 and
 8 are suitable for translation.
 For the editioprinceps, see P. S. Alexander and G. Vermes, DJD,
 XXXVI, 228-46. For 11Q14, see F. García Martinez et a/., DJD, XX I,
 243-51. For a preliminary study, see G. Vermes, ‘The Oxford Forum
 for Qumran Research: Seminar on the Rule of War (4Q285)’, JJS 43
 (1992), 85-90.
4Q285, fr. 1
 ... because of Thy name and ... Michael, G[abrie]l, [Sariel and Raphael]
 ... with the elect of ...
 4Q285, fr. 4
 ... wickedness wi l be smitten ... [the Prin]ce of the Congregation and
 al Is[rael] ... [which wa]s written [in the book of Ezekiel the Prophet, I
 wi l strike your bow from your left hand and wi l make your arrows drop
 from your right hand.] On the mountains of [Israel you sha l fa l] ...
 [the king of] the Kittim ... [the Pr]ince of the congregation [wi l pursue
 them] as far as the [Great] Sea ... [and they shal fle]e from before
 Israel. In that time ... he shal stand against them and they shal be
 stirred against them ... and they shal return to the dry land. In that time
 ... and they shal bring him (the king of the Kittim?) before the Prince [of
 the Congregation]
 4Q285.fr. 7
 The Messiah, Branch of David
 [As it is written in the book of] Isaiah the Prophet, [The thickets of the
 forest] wi l be cut [down with an axe and Lebanon by a majestic one
 wi l f] a l. And there sha l come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse
 [ .] the Branch of David and they wil enter into judgement with [...] and
 the Prince of the Congregation, the Br[anch of David] wi l ki l him [ ... by
 strok]es and by wounds. And a Priest [of renown(?)] wi l command [ ...
 the s]lai[n] of the Kitti[m ... ]
4Q285, fr.8
 [Answering, he shal say] to the sons of [I]srael: May you be blessed in
 the name of the Most High [God] ... and may His holy name be blessed
 for ever and ever. [May al His holy angels be blessed. May] the M[ost
 High] God [bless] you. [May He shine His face towards you and open
 for you His] good [treasure] which is in heaven [to bring down on your
 land] showers of blessing, dew, rain, [early rain] and late rain in His/its
 time, and to give [you the fruit of the produce of corn, wine and o]il
 plentiful. And may the land [prod]uce for [you fruits of delight. And you
 shal eat and grow fa]t. And there shal be no miscarriage [in yo]ur
 [la]n[d] and no [sickness, blight or mildew] shal be seen in [its]
 produ[ce. And there shal be no loss of children n]or stumbling in [your]
 congrega[tion, and wild beasts shal withdraw] from your land and there
 shal be no pestil[ence in your land.] For God is wi[th you and His holy
 angels stand in your congregation, and His] holy [name] shal be
 invoked upon you ... in your midst...
 11Q14
 And he shal bless them in the name [of the God] of Israel. Answering
 he shal say, ... to the sons of Israel: May [yo]u be blessed for ever and
 ever and may His ... be blessed ... and may His holy angels be
 blessed. May the Most High God bless you. May He shine His face
 towards you and open to you His good treasure which is in heaven to
 bring down on your land showers of blessing, dew, rain, early rain and
 late rain in His/its time to give you the fruit of the produce of corn, wine
 and oil plentiful. May the land produce for you fruits of delight. And you
 shal eat and grow fat. And there shal be no miscarriage in your land
 and no sickness, blight or mildew shal be seen in its produce. There
 shal be no loss of children, nor stumbling in your congregation and the
wild beasts shal withdraw from [your land.] The sword shal not pass
 through your land. For God is with you and His holy angels shal be
 present in your congregation, and His holy name shal be invoked upon
 you.
The Temple Scrol
 (11QT=11Q19-21, 4Q365a, 4Q524)
 Discovered in 1956 in Cave I, the Temple Scrol did not emerge from
 semi-clandestinity until the Six Day War in June 1967. It is the longest
 Qumran manuscript, measuring over twenty-eight feet. There are also
 other fragments pertaining to the same document from Cave 11
 (11Q20) and from Cave 4 (4Q365a). Originaly it consisted of sixty
seven columns.
 The major part of the scrol deals with the Temple (building and
 furniture) and cultic worship, especia ly sacrifices on Sabbaths and the
 many feasts of the year. Most of the legislation depends, directly or
 indirectly, on Exodus, Leviticus, and more particularly on Deuteronomy,
 but there are also occasional non-biblical regulations. The beginning of
 the manuscript is badly mutilated. Column I is missing. Columns I-XI
 are so fragmented that only a very hypothetical reconstruction,
 exclusively from biblical texts, is possible (cf. most extensively E.
 Qimron, The Temple Scrol, 1996). I have decided not to translate
 them but indicate their probable contents in the summary that folows:
 1. Covenant between God and Israel (I).
 2. Building of the Temple, measurements of the Sanctuary, the
 Holy of Holies, the chambers and colonnades ( I-VI).
 3. Description of the mercy seat, the cherubim, the veil, the table,
 the golden lamp-stand, etc. (V I-XI).
 4. Outline of the sacrificesand the altar (XI-X I).
 5. Daily, weekly and monthly sacrifices and those offered on
 festivals (X I-XXIX).
 6. Buildings in the Temple courtyards: the stairhouse, the house of
the laver, the house for sacred vessels, the slaughterhouse, etc.
 (xxx-xxxv).
 7. The three courtyards of the Temple, one for the priests, one for
 Jewish men over twenty years of age, and one for women and
 children (XXXVI-XLV).
 8. Purity regulations concerning the Temple and the city of the
 Sanctuary (XLVI-XLV I).
 9. Purity regulations concerning the cities of Israel (XLV I-LI).
 10. Judges and officers (LI).
 11. Laws relating to idolatry and to sacrificial animals (LI-L I).
 12. Vows and oaths (L I-LIV).
 13. Laws against apostasy (LIV-LV).
 14. Laws relating to priests and Levites and detailed statutes of
 the Jewish king (LVI-LIX).
 15. Miscelaneous laws regarding priestly dues, idols, witnesses,
 the conduct of war, the rebelious son, crimes punishable by
 ‘hanging’, and incestuous relations (LX-LXVI).
 The sequence of subjects generaly folows the Bible, but an obvious
 effort has been made to systematize, harmonize and reinterpret the
 laws. Sections complementary to Scripture include the Temple
 legislation ( I-X I, XXX-XLV), festivals (XV I-XXIX), purity material as
 rules relating to the Temple and the city (XLVI-XLV I), and the statutes
 of the king (LVI—LIX). The aim of the redactor is to present the
 message of the scrol not as an interpretation of the Bible, but as an
 immediate divine revelation. For this purpose, not only does he
 formulate the supplementary legislation as directly spoken by God, but
 also frequently substitutes ‘I’ for ’the Lord = YHWH’ of Scripture.
 Although the view has been advanced that the Temple Scrol is not a
 Qumran composition, the contrary thesis has a solid foundation. The
 relationship between this writing and the Damascus Document is
 particularly striking in the case of the prohibition of royal polygamy, of
 marriage between uncle and niece, and of marital relations within the
 city of the Sanctuary (compare CD IV, 20-V, I; XI, 1-2 with TS LVI, 16
18; LXVI, 15-17; XLV, 11-12), to name the most significant instances.
 Note also that the death penalty of ‘hanging’ (probably crucifixion)
 reserved for traitors appears both in TS LXIV, 6-13 and in the Nahum
Commentary (cf. p. 504). Since the Damascus Document and the
 Nahum Commentary are more likely to depend on the Temple Scrol
 than vice versa, the latter may safely be dated to the second century
 BCE. But it may also have an antecedent history reaching back to the
 pre-Qumran age.
 As noted, Cave 4 has also yielded five fairly mutilated fragments
 (4Q365a), palaeographicaly dated to the mid-first century BCE, some
 of which have been used by Yadin. Fragment 1 deals with the festival
 of Unleavened Bread (11QTS XVI, I); fragment 2 corresponds to
 11QTS XXXV I, 4-15 while the other three fragments cannot be placed
 within the known version of the text.
 The composition is available in a magisterial edition by Yigael
 Yadin, who first published it in Hebrew in 1977 and subsequently,
 shortly before his death, in English under the title The Temple Scro l I
I (Jerusalem, 1983). My translation is often indebted to Yadin’s
 editorial work. Further improvements are due to E. Qimron, The
 Temple Scrol: A Critical Edition with Extensive Reconstructions
 (Beer-Sheva/Jerusalem, 1996). For 11Q20-21, see F. García Martínez
 et al., DJD, XX I, 357-414. For 4Q365a, see S. White, DJD, X I, 319
33. For 4Q524, see E. Puech, DJD, XXV, 79-114.
 I [Behold, I wi l make a covenant.]
 [For it is something dreadful that I] wi l do [to you.] [I myself wi l expel
 from before you] the A[morites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the
 Girgashit]es, the Pe[rizzites, the Hivites and] the Jebusites. Ta[ke care
 not to make a cove]nant with the inhabitants of the country [which you
 are to] enter so that they may not prove a sn[are for you.] You must
 destroy their [alta]rs, [smash their] pi lars [and] cut down their [sacred
 trees and burn] [their] idols [with fire]. You must not desire silver and
 gold so [that you may not be ensnared by them; for that would be
 abominable to me]. You must [not] br[ing any abominable idol] into your
 house [and come] under the ban together with it. You shal de[test and
 abominate it], for it is under the ban. You shal not worship [another]
 go[d, for YHWH, whose name is] [Jealous], is a jealous God. Take
 care not to make a [covenant with the inhabitants of the country] [so
 that, when they whore] after [their go]ds [and] sacrifice to [them and
invite you,] [you may not eat of their sacrifices and] t[ake their
 daughters for your sons, and their daughters may not whore after] their
 [gods] and cau[se your sons to whore after them.] ... 
94
 X I [This is what you shal offer on the altar:] t[wo y]ear[ling lambs]
 without blemish [every day as a perpetual holocaust. You shal offer the
 first in the morning; and you shal offer the other lamb in the evening;
 the corresponding grain-offering wi l be a te]nth of fine flour mixed with
 [a quarter of a hin of beaten oil; it shal be a perpetual holocaust of
 soothing odour, an offering by fire] to YHWH; and the corresponding
 drink-offering sha l be a quart[er of a hin of] wine. [The priest who
 offers the holocaust shal receive the skin of] the burnt-[offering which
 he has offered. You shal offer the other lamb in the even]ing with the
 same grain-[offering as in the] morning and with the corresponding
 drink-offering as an offering by fire, a soothing odour to YHWH ...
 On the S[abbath] days you shal offer two [yearling rams without
 blemish and two] XIV [tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with oil,
 for a grain-offering and the corresponding drink-offering. This is the
 holocaust of every Sabbath in addition to the perpetual holocaust and
 the corresponding drink-offering. On the first day of each month you
 shal offer a holocaust to YHWH: two young buls, one ram, seven
 yearling rams without blemish and a grain-offe]ring of fine flour, [three
 tenths of an ephah] mix[ed with half a hin of oil, and a drink-offering,
 ha]lf a hin for [each young bul and a grain-offering of fine flour mixed
 with oil, two tenths of an ephah] with a third [of a hin, and wine for a
 drink-offering, one third of a hinfor each ram;] ... one tenth [of fine flour
 for] a grain-[offering, mixed with a quarter of a hin, and wine, a quarter
 of a hi]n for each lamb ... a soothing [odour] to YHWH on the first day
 of each month. This is the burnt-offering for each month for the months
 of the year ... On the first day of the [first] month [the months (of the
 year) shal start; it sha l be the first month] of the year [for you. You shal
 do no] work. [You shal offer a he-goat for a sin-offering.] It shal be
 offered by itself to expiate [for you. You shal offer a holocaust: a
 bulock], a ram, [seven yearli]ng ram lambs [without blemish] ...
 [ad]di[tional to the bu]r[nt-offering for the new moon, and a grain
offering of three tenths of fine flour mixed with oil], half a hin [for each
 bulock, and wi]ne for a drink-offering, [half a hin, a soothing odour to
YHWH, and two] tenths of fine flour mixed [with oil, one third of a hin.
 You shal offer wine for a drink-offering,] one th[ird] of a hin for the ram,
 [an offering by fire, of soothing odour to YHWH; and one tenth of fine
 flour], a grain-offerin[g mixed with a quarter of a hinof oil. You shal
 offer wine for a drink-offering, a quarter of a hin] for each [ram] ...
 lambs and for the he-g[oat] ... XV [ea]ch day ... seven [year]ling [lambs]
 and a he-[goat] ... according to this statute. For the ordination (of the
 priests), one ram for each [day, and] baskets of bread for al the ra[ms
 of the ordination, one basket for] each [ram]. They shal divide al the
 rams and the baskets for the seve[n days of the ordination for each]
 day; according to [their] division[s, they sha l offer to YHWH the right
 thigh] of the ram as a holocaust and [the fat covering the entrails and
 the] two kidneys and the fat on them [and on] the loins and the whole fat
 tail close to the backbone and the appendage of the liver and the
 corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering according to the
 sta[tute. They shal take one unleavened cake from the] basket and
 one cake of bread with oil and [one] wafer, [and they shal put it al on
 the fat] together with the offering of the right thigh. Those who sacrifice
 sha l wave the rams and the baskets of bread as a wa[ve-offering
 be]fore YHWH. This is a holocaust, an offering by fire, of soothing
 odour before YHWH. [They shal burn everything on the altar over] the
 holocaust, to complete their ordination during the seven days of
 [ordination].
 If the High Priest is to [minister to YHWH, whoever] has been
 ordained to put on the vestments in place of his father, shal offer [a bul
 fo]r a l the people and another for the priests. He shal offer the one for
 the priests first. The elders of the priest[s] shal lay [their hands] XVI
 [on] its [hea]d and after them the High Priest and al the [priests. They
 shal slaughter] the bul [before YHWH]. The elders of the priests shal
 take from the blood of the bul and [place] it [with their finger on the
 horns of the altar] and they shal pour [the blood] around the four
 corners of the [altar] ledge ... [and they shal take from its blood and
 pl]ace it [on his right ear lobe and on the thumb of his right hand and
 the big toe of his] right [foot. They shal sprinkle on him and his
 vestments some of the blood which was on the altar]... [he] shal be
 [holy] a l his days. [He shal not go near any dead body]. He shal [not]
render himself unclean [even for his father or mother,] for [he is] hol[y to
 YHWH, his God] ... [He shal offer on the al]tar and burn [the fat of the
 first bul] ... [a l] the fat on the entrails and [the appendage of the liver
 and the two kidne]ys and the fat on the[m] and [the fat on] the loins, and
 the corresponding grain-offering and drink-[offering according to their
 statute,] he sha l bur[n them on the altar.] It sha l be [a burnt-]offering, an
 offering by fire, of soothing odour be[fore YHWH. The flesh of the bul],
 its skin and offal, they shal burn outside the [sanctuary city on a wood
 fire] in a place reserved for sin-offerings. There they shal bur[n it with
 its head and legs] together with al its entrails. They shal burn al of it
 there except the fat. It is a sin-[offering]. He sha l take the second bul,
 which is for the people, and by it he shal expiate [for al the people of]
 the assembly, by its blood and fat. As he did with the fir[st] bul, [so he
 shal do] with the bul of the assembly. He shal place with his finger
 some of its blood on the horns of the [altar, and the remainder of] its
 blood, he shal sprinkle o[n the f]our corners of the altar ledge, and [its
 fat and] the corresponding [grain-] offering and drink-offering, he sha l
 burn on the altar. It is a sin-offering for the assembly. XV I ... They shal
 rejoice because expiation has been made for them ... This day [shal]
 be a holy gathering for them, [an eternal rule for al their generations]
 wherever they dwel. They shal rejoice and ...
 [Let] them [prepare on the fourtee]nth day of the first month [between
 dusk and dark the Passover of YHWH]. They shal sacrifice (it) before
 the evening offering and shal sacrifice ... men from twenty years of age
 and over shal prepare it. They shal eat it at night in the holy courts.
 They shal rise early and each shal go to his tent ...
 On the fifteenth day of this month (there shal be) a ho[ly] gathering.
 You shal do no work of labour on it. (It shal be) a seven-day feast of
 unleavened bread for YHWH. You shal offer on each of the[se] seven
 days a holocaust to YHWH: two young buls, a ram, and seven ram
 lambs without blemish and a he-goat for a sin-offering and the
 corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering [according to the
 sta]tute for the young buls, rams, l[am]bs and the he-goat. On the
 seventh day [(there shal be) an assembly] for [YHWH]. You shal do no
 work on it. XV I ... [he-] goat for a sin-offering ... [the corresponding
 grain-offering and drink-] offering according to the statute; one tenth of
fine flour [mixed with a quarter of a hin of oil and] a quarter of a hin of
 wine for a drink-offering ... [he shal expiate] for al the guilt of the
 people of the assembly ... This shal be an eternal [ru]le for you [for your
 generations wherever you dwel.] Then they shal offer the one ram,
 on[ce], on the day of the waving of the sheaf.
 You shal count seven complete Sabbaths from the day of your
 bringing the sheaf of [the wave-offering. You shal c]ount until the
 morrow of the seventh Sabbath. You shal count [fifty] days. You shal
 bring a new grain-offering to YHWH from your homes, [a loaf of fine
 fl]ou[r], freshly baked with leaven. They are firstfruits to YHWH, wheat
 bread, twe[lve cakes, two] tenths of fine flour in each cake ... the tribes
 of Israel. They shal offer XIX ... their [grain-offerin]g and dr[ink-offering]
 according to the statute. The [priests] shal wave ... [wave-offering with
 the bread of] the firstfruits. They sha l b[elong to] the priests and they
 shal eat them in the [inner] court[yard], [as a ne]w [grain-offering], the
 bread of the firstfruits. Then ... new bread from freshly ripened ears.
 [On this] da[y] there sha l be [a holy gathering, an eter]nal [rule] for their
 generations. [They] sha l [do] no work. It is the feast of Weeks and the
 feast of Firstfruits, an eterna[l] memorial.
 You [shal count] seven weeks from the day when you bring the new
 grain-offering to YHW [H], the bread of firstfruits. Seven ful Sabbaths
 [sha l elapse un]til you have counted fifty days to the morrow of the
 seventh Sabbath. [You] shal [bring] new wine for a drink-offering, four
 hins from al the tribes of Israel, one third of a hin for each tribe.
 They shal offer on this day with the wine twelve rams to YHWH; al
 the chiefs of the clans of Israel XX ... [r]ams and the corresponding
 grain-offering according to the statute: two [tenths of fine flour mixed
 with oil, one third of a h]in of oil for a ram; with this drink-offering ...
 seven yearling ram lambs and a he-[goat] ... assembly ... their [grain
offering and drink-offering] (shal be) according to the statute
 concerning young buls and the ram ... to YHWH. At the quarter of the
 day, they shal offer ... [the r]ams and the drink-offering. They sha l offer
 ... fourteen yearling ram lambs ... the burnt-offering. They sha l prepare
 them ... and they shal burn their fat on the altar, [the fat covering the
 entrails] and the fat that is on them, and [the appendage of the liver
 with] the kidneys he shal remove and the fat on [them], and that which
is on the loins and the fat tail close to the backbone. They shal b[urn al
 on the altar] together with the corresponding grain-offering and drink
offering, an offering by fire, of soothing odou[r before YHWH]. They
 shal offer every grain-offering joined to a drink-offering according to
 [the statute]. They shal take a handful from [eve]ry grain-offering
 offered either with frankincense or dry, (this being) its [memorial
 portion], and burn it on the altar. They shal eat the remainder in the
 [in]n[er] courtyard. The priests sha l e[a]t it unleavened. It sha l not be
 eaten with leaven. It shal be ea[ten] on that day [before] sun[se]t. They
 shal salt al their offerings. You sha l never alow the covenant of salt to
 fail.
 They shal offer to YHWH an offering from the rams and the lambs,
 the right thigh, the breast, [the cheeks, the stomac]h and the foreleg as
 far as the shoulder bone, and they shal wave them as a wave-offering.
 XXI [The priests’] portions [shal] be the thigh of the offering and the
 breast ... [the foreleg]s, the cheeks and the stomachs ... [as an eternal
 rule, from the children of Isra]el and the shoulder remaining of the
 foreleg [sha l be for the Levites] ... an eternal rule for them and for their
 seed .. the princes of the Thousands ... [from] the rams and from [the
 lambs, one ram and one ram lamb (shal belong) to the priests; to the
 Levites], one [ra]m, one lamb; and to every [tribe, on]e [ram], one lamb
 for al the tri[bes], the [twe]lve tribes of Israel. They sha l eat them [on
 that day, in the out]er [courtyard] before YHWH.
 ... [the priest]s sha l drink there first and the Levites [second] ... the
 princes of the standards first ... [men of] renown. After them the whole
 people, from the great to the smal, shal begin to drink the new wine.
 They [shal not e]a[t] any un[ri]pe grapes from the vines, for [on] this
 [da]y they shal expiate for the tirosh. The children of Israel shal rejoice
 before YHWH, an eternal [rule] for their generations wherever they
 dwel. They shal rejoice on [this] d[ay for they have begun] to pour out
 an intoxicating drink-offering, the new wine, on the altar of YHWH, year
 by year.
 [You sha]l count from that day seven weeks, seven times (seven
 days), forty-nine days; there shal be seven ful Sabbaths; until the
 morrow of the seventh Sabbath you shal count fifty days. You shal then
 offer new oil from the homes of [the tr]ibes of the ch[ildren of Is]rael, half
a hin from a tribe, new beaten oil ... oil on the altar of the holocaust,
 firstfruits before YHWH. XXI ... [shal expi]ate with it for al the
 congregation before [YHWH] ... with this oil, half a hin ... [according to
 the st]atute, a holocaust, an offering by fire, of soothing [odour to
 YHWH] ... [With] this oil they shal light the lamps ... the princes of the
 Thousands with ... fourteen [yearling] m[ale lamb]s and the
 corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering ... [for the lambs and]
 the rams. The Levites shal slaughter ... [and] the priests, the sons of
 Aaron, [shal spri]nkle their blood [on the altar al around] ... [and] they
 shal burn their fat on the altar of the [holocaust] ... [and the
 corresponding grain-offering] and drink-offering, they sha l burn over
 the fats ... [an offering by fire, of soothing odour to] YHWH. They shal
 take away fr[om] ... the right thigh and the breast ... the cheeks and the
 stomach shal be the priests’ portion according to the statute
 concerning them. (They shal give) to the Levites the shoulder.
 Afterwards they shal bring them (the offerings) out to the children of
 Israel, and the children of Israel shal give the prie[st]s one ram, one
 lamb, and to the Levites, one ram, one lamb, and to each tribe, one
 ram, one lamb. They shal eat them on that day in the outer courtyard
 before YHWH, an eternal rule for their generations, year by year.
 Afterwards they shal eat from the olives and anoint themselves with
 the new oil, for on this day they shal expiate for [al]l [the o]il of the land
 before YHWH once yearly. They shal rejoice XX I ...
 The High Priest shal offer the [holocaust of the Levites] first, and
 afterwards he shal send up in smoke the holocaust of the tribe of
 Judah, and w[hen he] is sending it up in smoke, they shal slaughter
 before him the he-goat first and he shal lift up its blood in a bowl to the
 altar and with his finger he shal pu[t some] of the blood to the four
 horns of the alta[r] of the holocaust and to the four corners of the altar
 ledge, and shal toss the blood towards the bas[e] of the altar ledge al
 around. He shal burn its fat on the altar, the fat covering the entrails
 and that over the entrails. The appendage of the liver with the kidneys
 he shal remove as wel as the fat over them and on the loins. He shal
 send up in smoke al of them on the altar together with the
 corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering, an offering by fire of
 soothing odour to YHWH. And XXIV ... the flesh, of [soothing] odour; it
shal be [an offering by fire to YHWH. Thus they must do to every]
 young bul, and to every ram and to [every lamb] and its limbs (?) shal
 remain apart. The corresponding [grain-offering] and drink-offering
 shal be on it, an [eternal] rule for your generations before YHWH.
 After this holocaust he shal offer the holocaust of the tribe of Judah
 separately. As he has done with the holocaust of the Levites, so shal
 he do with the holocaust of the children of Judah after the Levites. On
 the second day he shal first offer the holocaust of Benjamin and after it
 he shal offer the holocaust of the children of Joseph, Ephraim and
 Manasseh together. On the third day, he shal offer the holocaust of
 Reuben separately, and the holocaust of Simeon separately. On the
 fourth day he shal offer the holocaust of Issachar separately and the
 holocaust of Zebulun separately. On the fifth day he shal offer the
 holocaust of Gad separately and the holocaust of Asher separately. On
 the sixth day XXV [he shal offer the holocaust of Dan separately and
 the holocaust of Naphtali separately] ...
 In the [seventh] m[onth, on the first day of the month, you shal have] a
 sacred rest, a remembrance announced by a trumpet blast, a [holy]
 ga[thering. You shal offer a holocaust, an offering by fire, of soothing
 odour be]fore YHWH. You shal o[ffer on]e [young bul,] one ram,
 seve[n] ye[ar]ling [lamb]s [without blemish and one he-goat for a sin
offering, and] the corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering
 according to the statute concerning the[m, of soothing odour to YHWH,
 in addition to] the perpetual [holocaus]t [and the holo]caust of the new
 moon. Afterwards [you shal offer] this [holocaust] at the third part of the
 day, an eternal rule for your generation[s wherever you dwel.] You shal
 rejoice on this day. On it you shal do no work. A sacred rest shal this
 day be for you.
 The tenth of this month is the Day of Atonement. You shal mortify
 yourselves. For any person who does not mortify himself on this
 selfsame day shal be cut off from his people. You shal offer on it a
 holocaust to YHWH: one young bul, one ram, seven ram lambs, one
 he-goat for a sin-offering, in addition to the sin-offering of the
 atonement and the corresponding grain-offering and drink-offering
 according to the statute concerning the young bul, the ram, the lambs
 and the he-goat. For the sin-offering of the atonement you shal offer
two rams for holocaust. The High Priest shal offer one for himself and
 his father’s house XXVI ... [The High Prie]st [shal cast lots on the two
 goats,] o[ne] lot for YHWH and one for Azazel. He shal slaughter the
 goat [on] which [YHWH’s lot has falen and shal lift up] its blood in a
 golden bowl which is in [his ha]nd, [and do] with its blo[od as he has
 done with the blood of] his young bul and shal expiate with it for al the
 people of the assembly. He shal send up in smoke its fat and the
 corresponding grain-and drink-offering on the altar of the holocaust. Its
 flesh, skin and dung they shal burn beside his young bul. It is a sin
offering for the whole assembly. He shal expiate with it for al the
 people of the assembly and it shal be forgiven to them. He shal wash
 his hands and feet of the blood of the sin-offering and shal come to the
 living goat and shal confess over its head the iniquities of the children
 of Israel together with al their guilt, a l their sins. He shal put them on
 the head of the goat and despatch it to Azazel in the desert by the
 hand of the man who is waiting ready. The goat shal bear al the
 iniquities of (the children of Israel). XXV I ... [and he sha l expiate] for a l
 the children of Israel and it shal be forgiven to them ... Afterwards he
 shal offer the young bul, the r[a]m, and [the lambs, according to] the
 [sta]tute relating to them, on the altar of the holocaust, and the
 [ho]locaust wi l be accepted for the children of Israel, an eternal rule for
 their generations. Once a year this day shal be for them a memorial.
 They shal do no work on it, for it shal be [to] them a Sabbath of sacred
 rest. Whoever shal do work on it or shal not mortify himself on it, shal
 be cut off from the midst of his people. A Sabbath of sacred rest, a
 holy gathering shal this day be for you. You shal sanctify it as a
 memorial wherever you dwel and you shal do no work.
 On the fifteenth day of this month XXV I ... [the corresponding] grain
offering [and drink-offering, a l on] the altar, an offering by fire, of
 s[oothing odour to YHWH. On] the second [day:] twelve young buls,
 [two rams, four]teen [lambs] and one he-goat [for a sin-offerin]g [and
 the corresponding gr]ai[n-offering and drink-offering] according to the
 statute concerning the young buls, the ram[s], the lambs [and] the he
goat; it is an offering by fire, of soothing odour to YHWH.
 On the third day eleven young buls, two rams, fourteen lambs and
 one he-goat for a sin-offering and the corresponding grain-offering and
drink-offering according to the statute concerning the young buls, the
 rams, the lambs and the he-goat.
 On the fo[ur]th day ten young buls, two rams, fourteen yearling ram
 lambs and one he-goat for a sin-offering and the corresponding grain
offering and drink-offering for the young buls, XXIX [the rams, the
 lambs and the he-goat ... On the fifth day ... and the corresponding
 grain-offering] and drink-offer[ing] ... in the house on which I [shal
 cause] my name to rest ... holocausts, [each on its] day according to
 the law of this statute, always from the children of Israel in addition to
 their freewi lofferings in regard to a l that they offer, their drink-offerings
 and al their gifts that they shal bring to me in order to be acceptable. I
 shal accept them and they shal be my people and I shal be for them
 for ever. I wi l dwel with them for ever and ever and wil sanctify my
 [sa]nctuary by my glory. I wi l cause my glory to rest on it until the day of
 creation on which I shal create my sanctuary, establishing it for myself
 for al time according to the covenant which I have made with Jacob in
 Bethel.
 XXX ... You shal make ... for stairs, a stair[case] ... in the house
 which you shal build ... You [shal make] a staircase north of the
 Temple, a square house, twenty cubits from one corner to the other
 alongside its four corners. Its distance from the wal of the Temple shal
 be seven cubits on the north-west. You shal make the width of its wal
 four cubits ... like the Temple and its inside from corner to corner
 twelv[e cubits.] (There sha l be) a square column in its middle, in the
 centre; its width four cubits on each side around which the stairs wind
 ... XXXI In the upper chamber of [this] ho[use you shal make a ga]te
 opening to the roof of the Temple and a way (shal be) made through
 this gate towards the entrance ... of the Temple by which one can
 reach the upper chamber of the Temple. Overlay with gold [a]l this
 stairhouse, its wals, its gates and its roof, from inside [and from]
 outside, its column and its stairs. [You] sha l do everything as I tel you.
 You shal make a square house for the laver in the south-east, on al its
 sides, (each) twenty-one cubits; fifty cubits distant from the altar. The
 width of the wal shal be four cubits, and the height [t]wenty cubits ...
 Make gates for it on the east, on the north and on the west. The width
 of the gates shal be four cubits and the height seven XXX I ... You shal
make in the wal of this house, on the inside, recesses, and in them ...
 one cubit (in) width and their height four cubits above the ground. They
 shal be overlaid with gold on which they shal place their clothes which
 they have worn on arrival. Above the house of the ... when they come to
 minister in the sanctuary. You shal make a trench around the laver
 beside its house and the trench shal go [from the house of] the laver to
 a cavity. It sha l descend [rapid]ly to the ground where the water shal
 flow and disappear. It shal not be touched by any man for it is mingled
 with the blood of the holocaust. XXX I They shal sanctify my people in
 the sacred vestments which ...
 You shal make a house east of the house of the [l]av[er] according
 to the measurement of [the house of the bas]in. Its wal shal be at a
 distance of seven cubits from the wal of the house of the laver. Its
 whole building and rafters shal be like (those of) the house of the laver.
 It sha l have two gates on the north and the south, one opposite the
 other, according to the measurement of the gates of the house of the
 laver. Inside a l the wals of this house shal have apertures, their width
 (and depth) two cubits each and their height four (?) with which the
 entrails and the feet are raised to the altar. When they have completed
 the sending up in smoke XXXIV ... They close the wheels and ... and
 tie the horns of the young buls to the rings and ... by the rings.
 Afterwards they shal slaughter them and colect [the blood] in bowls
 and toss it around the altar base. They shal open the wheels and strip
 the skin of the young buls from their flesh and cut them up into pieces,
 salt the pieces, wash the entrails and the legs, salt them and send
 them up in smoke on the fire which is on the altar, each young bul with
 its pieces beside it and the corresponding grain-offering of fine flour
 on it, the wine of the drink-offering beside it and some of it on it. The
 priests, the sons of Aaron, shal send everything up in smoke on the
 altar, an offering by fire, of soothing odour before YHWH. You shal
 make chains hanging from the rafters of the twelve columns XXXV ...
 whoever is not a priest shal die, and whoever ... [a prie]st who shal
 come ... and he is not clothed in the [holy] vest[ments in which] he was
 ordained, they too shal be put to death and shal not pro[fane the
 san]ctuary of their God, thus incurring the iniquity of mortal guilt. You
 shal sanctify the environs of the altar, the Temple, the laver and the
colonnade and they shal be most holy for ever and ever.
 You shal make a place west of the Temple, a colonnade of pilars
 standing around for the sin-offerings and the guilt-offerings, divided
 from one another, the sin-offerings of the priests, the he-goats, and the
 sin-offerings of the people and their guilt-offerings. None of these sha l
 be mingled one with another, for their places shal be divided from one
 another in order that the priests may not err concerning al the sin
offerings of the people, and al the rams (?) of the guilt-offerings, (thus)
 incurring the sin of guilt.
 The birds for the altar: he shal prepare turtledoves XXXVI ... from
 the corner of ... [to the corne]r of the gat[e, one hundred and twenty
 cubits.] The gate (shal be) forty [cubits] wide. Each side shal be
 [according to this measurement. The wid]th of [its wa]l shal be seven
 cubits, [and] its [height forty]-five [cubits to the raft]ers of [its] roof. The
 width of its ch[ambers] (shal be) twenty-six cubits from corner to
 corner. The gates of entrance and exit: the gate shal be fourteen
 cubits wide and [tw]enty-eight cubits high from the threshold to the
 lintel. The height of the rafters above the lintel sha l be fourteen cubits.
 (The gate shal be) roofed with a paneling of cedar wood overlaid with
 pure gold. Its doors shal be overlaid with fine gold.
 From the corner of the gate to the second angle of the courtyard,
 (there shal be) one hundred and twenty cubits. Thus shal be the
 measurement of al these gates of the inner courtyard. The gates shal
 lead inside into the courtyard. XXXV I You shal make [in]side the
 court[yard] seats for the priests, and tables in front of the seats, in the
 inner colonnade by the outer wal of the courtyard, places made for the
 priests and their sacrifices, for the firstfruits and the tithes, for their
 peace-offering sacrifices which they shal sacrifice. The sacrifices of
 the peace-offerings of the children of Israel shal not be mingled with
 the sacrifices of the priests.
 In the four corners of the courtyard you shal make for them a place
 for cooking-stoves where they shal seethe their sacrifices [and] sin
offerings. XXXV I ... There they shal eat ... the bird, the turtle-dove and
 the young pigeons ...
 You shal make a second [co]urtyard aro[u]nd [the in]ner [courtyard],
 one hundred cubits wide, and four hundred and eighty cubits long on
the east side, and thus shal be the width and length of al its sides: to
 the south, to the west and to the north. Its wal shal be [fo]ur cubits wide
 and twenty-eight cubits high. Chambers shal be made in the wal
 outside and between each chamber there shal be three-[and-a-half
 cubits] XXXIX ... that al the congregation of the children of Israel may
 bow down before me ... No woman shal come there, nor a child until
 the day that he has fulfi led the rule ... [and has paid for] himself [a
 ransom] to YHWH, half a shekel, an eternal rule, a memorial wherever
 they dwel. The shekel (consists of) twenty gerahs.
 When they shal colect from him the half-shekel... to me. Afterwards
 they shal enter from the age of twenty ... The na[mes of the g]ates of
 this [co]urtyard sha[l b]e according to the nam[es of] the children of
 Is[ra]el: Simeon, Levi and Judah in the east; Reuben, Joseph and
 Benjamin in the south; Issachar, Zebulun and Gad in the west; Dan,
 Naphtali and Asher in the north. Between each gate the measurement
 (sha l be): from the north-eastern corner to the gate of Simeon, ninety
nine cubits, and the gate twenty-eight cubits. From this gate of Simeon
 to the gate of Levi, ninety-nine cubits, and the gate, twenty-eight cubits.
 From the gate of Levi to the gate of Judah XL ... You shal make a third
 courtyard ... to their daughters and to the strangers who [were] born ...
 [wi]de around the middle courtyard ... in length about one thousand six
 [hundred] cubits from one corner to the next. Each side shal be
 according to this measurement: on the east, the south, the west and
 the no[rt]h. The wal shal be seven cubits wide and forty-nine cubits
 high. Chambers shal be made between its gates along the foundation
 as far up as its ‘crowns’ (= crenelations: Yadin). There shal be three
 gates in the east, three in the south, three in the west and three in the
 north. The gates shal be fifty cubits wide and their height seventy
 cubits. Between one gate and another there shal be three hundred
 and sixty cubits. From the corner to the gate of Simeon, three hundred
 and sixty cubits. From the gate of Simeon to the gate of Levi, likewise.
 From the gate of Levi to the gate of Judah, likewise three [hundred
 and] sixty (cubits). XLI ... From the gate of Issachar [to the gate of
 Zebulun, three] hundred [and sixty] cubits. From the gate of Zebulun to
 the gate of Gad, three hundred and sixty cubits. From the ga[te of] Gad
 to the northern corner, three hundred and sixty cubits. From this corner
to the gate of Dan: three hundred and sixty cubits. Thus from the gate
 of Dan to the gate of Naphtali, three hundred and sixty cubits. From the
 gate of Naphtali to the gate of Asher, three hundred and sixty cubits.
 From the gate of Asher to the eastern corner, three hundred and sixty
 cubits. The gates shal jut outwards from the wal of the courtyard seven
 cubits, and extend inwards from the wal to the courtyard thirty-six
 cubits. The entrance of the gate shal be fourteen cubits wide and
 twenty-eight cubits high up to the lintel. The rafters at the doorways (?)
 shal be of cedar wood and overlaid with gold. The doors shal be
 overlaid with pure gold. Between each gate inwards you shal make
 storehouses, XL I [rooms and colonnades.]
 The room shal be ten cubits wide, twenty cubits long, and four[teen]
 cubits high ... with cedar wood. The wal shal be two cubits wide. On
 the outside there shal be storehouses. [The storehouse shal be ten
 cubits wide and] twenty cubits [long]. The wal shal be two cubits wide
 [and fourteen cubits high] up to the lintel. Its entrance shal be three
 cubits wide. [You shal make in this way] al the storehouses and the
 [corresponding] rooms. The colon[nade] ... shal be ten cubits [wi]de.
 Between each gate [you shal make eight]een storehouses and the
 corresponding eight[een] rooms ...
 You shal make a staircase next to the wals of the gates towards the
 colonnade. Winding stairs shal go up to the second and third
 colonnades and to the roof. You shal build storehouses and
 corresponding rooms and colonnades as on the ground floor. The
 second and the third (levels) shal folow the measurement of the lower
 one. On the roof of the third you shal make pilars roofed with rafters
 from one pilar to the next (providing) a place for tabernacles. The
 (pi lars) sha l be eight cubits high and the tabernacles shal be made
 on their (roof) each year at the feast of the Tabernacles for the elders
 of the congregation, for the princes, the heads of the fathers’ houses of
 the children of Israel, the captains of the thousands, the captains of the
 hundreds, who wil ascend and dwel there until the sacrificing of the
 holocaust on the festival which is the feast of the Tabernacles, each
 year. Between each gate there shal be XL I ... on the days of the
 firstfruits of the corn, of the w[ine (tirosh) and the oil, and at the festival
 of the offering of] wood. On these days (the tithe) shal be eaten. They
shal not put aside anything from it from one year to another. For they
 shal eat it in this manner. From the feast of the Firstfruits of the corn of
 wheat they shal eat the corn until the next year, until the feast of the
 Firstfruits, and (they sha l drink) the wine from the day of the festival of
 Wine until the next year, until the day of the festival of the Wine, and
 (they shal eat) the oil from its festival, until the next year, until the
 festival, the day of offering the new oil on the altar. Whatever is left (to
 last beyond) their festivals sha l be sanctified by being burnt with fire. It
 shal no longer be eaten for it is holy. Those who live within a distance
 of three days’ walk from the sanctuary shal bring whatever they can
 bring. If they cannot carry it, they sha l sel it for money and buy with it
 corn, wine, oil, cattle and sheep, and shal eat them on the days of the
 festivals. On working days they shal not eat from this in their weariness
 for it is holy. On the holy days it shal be eaten, but it shal not be eaten
 on working days. XLIV ...
 You shal alot [the rooms and the corresponding chambers. From
 the gate of Simeo]n to the gate of Judah shal be for the priests ... Al
 that is to the right and to the left of the gate of Levi, you shal alo[t] to
 Aaron, your brother, one hundred and eight rooms and corresponding
 chambers and two tabernacles which are on the roof. (You shal alot)
 to the sons of Judah (the area) from the gate of Judah to the corner:
 fifty-four rooms and corresponding chambers and the tabernacle that
 is over them. (You shal alot) to the sons of Simeon (the area) from the
 gate of Simeon to the second corner: their rooms, the corresponding
 chambers and tabernacles. (You shal alot) to the sons of Reuben (the
 area) from the corner which is beside the sons of Judah to the gate of
 Reuben: fifty-two rooms and the corresponding chambers and
 tabernacles. (The area) from the gate of Reuben to the gate of Joseph
 (you shal alot) to the sons of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh. (The
 area) from the gate of Joseph to the gate of Benjamin (you shal alot)
 to the sons of Kohath from the Levites. (The area) from the gate of
 Benjamin to the western corner (you shal alot) to the sons of
 Benjamin. (The area) from this corner to the gate of Issachar (you shal
 alot) to the sons of Issachar. (The area) from the gate (of Issachar)
 XLV . the second (= incoming) [priestly course] shal enter on the left
 ... and the first (= outgoing) shal leave on the right. They shal not
mingle with one another nor their vessels. [Each] priestly course shal
 come to its place and they shal stay there. One shal arrive and the
 other leave on the eighth day. They shal clean the rooms, one after the
 other, when the first (priestly course) leaves. There sha l be no mingling
 there.
 No man who has had a nocturnal emission shal enter the sanctuary
 at al until three days have elapsed. He shal wash his garments and
 bathe on the first day and on the third day he shal wash his garments
 and bathe, and after sunset he shal enter the sanctuary. They shal not
 enter my sanctuary in their impure uncleanness and render it unclean.
 No man who has had sexual intercourse with his wife shal enter
 anywhere into the city of the sanctuary where I cause my name to
 abide, for three days. No blind man shal enter it in al his days and
 shal not profane the city where I abide, for I, YHWH, abide amongst
 the children of Israel for ever and ever.
 Whoever is to purify himself of his flux shal count seven days for his
 purification. He sha l wash his garments on the seventh day and bathe
 his whole body in running water. Afterwards he shal enter the city of
 the sanctuary. No one unclean through contact with a corpse shal enter
 there until he has purified himself. No leper nor any man smitten (in his
 body) shal enter there until he has purified himself and has offered ...
 XLVI ... [No] unclean bird shal fly over [my] sanctua[ry] ... the roofs of
 the gates ... the outer courtyard ... be in my sanctuary for ever and ever
 al the time that I [abide] among them.
 You shal make a terrace round about, outside the outer courtyard,
 fourteen cubits wide like the entrances of al the gates. You shal make
 twelve steps (leading) to it by which the children of Israel shal ascend
 there to enter my sanctuary.
 You shal make a one-hundred-cubits-wide ditch around the
 sanctuary which shal divide the holy sanctuary from the city so that no
 one can rush into my sanctuary and defile it. They shal sanctify my
 sanctuary and hold it in awe because I abide among them.
 You shal make for them latrines outside the city where they shal go
 out, north-west of the city. These shal be roofed houses with holes in
 them into which the filth shal go down. It shal be far enough not to be
 visible from the city, (at) three thousand cubits.
You shal make three areas to the east of the city, divided from one
 another, where the lepers, those suffering from a flux and men who
 have had a (nocturnal) emission XLV I ...
 Their cities [sha l be] pure ... for ever. The city which I wi l sanctify,
 causing my name and [my] sanctuar[y] to abide [in it], shal be holy and
 pure of al impurity with which they can become impure. Whatever is in
 it sha l be pure. Whatever enters it shal be pure: wine, oil, al food and
 al moistened (food) shal be clean. No skin of clean animals
 slaughtered in their cities shal be brought there (to the city of the
 sanctuary). But in their cities they may use them for any work they
 need. But they shal not bring them to the city of my sanctuary, for the
 purity of the skin corresponds to that of the flesh. You shal not profane
 the city where I cause my name and my sanctuary to abide. For it is in
 the skins (of animals) slaughtered in the sanctuary that they shal bring
 their wine and oil and al their food to the city of my sanctuary. They
 shal not polute my sanctuary with the skins of animals slaughtered in
 their country which are tainted (= unfit for the Temple). You cannot
 render any city among your cities as pure as my city, for the purity of
 the skin of the animal corresponds to the purity of its flesh. If you
 slaughter it in my sanctuary, it sha l be pure for my sanctuary, but if you
 slaughter it in your cities, it sha l be pure (only) for your cities. Whatever
 is pure for the sanctuary, shal be brought in skins (fit) for the sanctuary,
 and you shal not profane my sanctuary and my city where I abide with
 tainted skins.
 XLV I ... [the cormorant, the stork, every ki]nd of [heron,] the
 hoop[oe and the bat] ...
 You may eat [the folowing] flying [insects]: every kind of great locust,
 every kind of long-headed locust, every kind of green locust, and every
 kind of desert locust. These are among the flying insects which you
 may eat: those which walk on four legs and have legs jointed above
 their feet to leap with them on the ground and wings to fly with. You
 shal not eat the carcass of any bird or beast but may sel it to a
 foreigner. You shal not eat any abominable thing, for you are a holy
 people to YHWH, your God.
 You are the sons of YHWH, your God. You shal not gash yourselves
 or shave your forelocks in mourning for the dead, nor shal you tattoo
yourselves, for you are a holy people to YHWH, your God. You shal not
 profane your land.
 You shal not do as the nations do; they bury their dead everywhere,
 they bury them even in their houses. Rather you shal set apart areas in
 the midst of your land where you shal bury your dead. Between four
 cities you shal designate an area for burial. In every city you shal set
 aside areas for those stricken with leprosy, with plague and with scab,
 who shal not enter your cities and profane them, and also for those
 who suffer from a flux; and for menstruating women, and women after
 childbirth, so that they may not cause defilement in their midst by their
 impure uncleanness. The leper suffering from chronic leprosy or scab,
 who has been pronounced unclean by the priest XLIX ... with cedar
 wood, hyssop and ... your cities with the plague of leprosy and they
 shal be unclean.
 If a man dies in your cities, the house in which the dead man has
 died shal be unclean for seven days. Whatever is in the house and
 whoever enters the house shal be unclean for seven days. Any food on
 which water has been poured shal be unclean, anything moistened
 shal be unclean. Earthenware vessels shal be unclean and whatever
 they contain shal be unclean for every clean man. The open (vessels)
 shal be unclean for every Israelite (with) whatever is moistened in
 them.
 On the day when the body is removed from there, they shal cleanse
 the house of al polution of oil, wine and water moisture. They shal rub
 its (the house’s) floor, wa ls and doors and shal wash with water the
 bolts, doorposts, thresholds and lintels. On the day when the body is
 removed from there, they shal purify the house and al its utensils,
 hand-mi ls and mortars, al utensils of wood, iron and bronze and al
 utensils capable of purification. Clothes, sacks and skins shal be
 washed. As for the people, whoever has been in the house or has
 entered the house shal bathe in water and shal wash his clothes on
 the first day. On the third day they shal sprinkle purifying water on them
 and shal bathe. They shal wash their garments and al the utensils in
 the house.
 On the seventh day they shal sprinkle (them) a second time. They
 shal bathe, wash their clothes and utensils and shal be clean by the
evening of (the impurity contracted) from the dead so as to (be fit to)
 touch their pure things. As for a man who has not been rendered
 unclean on account of L ... they have been unclean. No longer ... until
 they have sprinkled (them) the second [time] on the seventh day and
 shal be clean by the evening at sunset.
 Whoever touches the bone of a dead person in the fields, or one
 slain by the sword, or a dead body or the blood of a dead person, or a
 tomb, he shal purify himself according to the rule of this statute. But if
 he does not purify himself according to the statute of this law, he is
 unclean, his uncleanness being sti l in him. Whoever touches him must
 wash his clothes, bathe and he shal be clean by the evening.
 If a woman is with child and it dies in her womb, as long as it is dead
 in her, she shal be unclean like a tomb. Any house that she enters shal
 be unclean with al its utensils for seven days. Whoever touches it shal
 be unclean ti l the evening. If anyone enters the house with her, he shal
 be unclean for seven days. He shal wash his clothes and bathe in
 water on the first (day). On the third day he shal sprinkle and wash his
 clothes and bathe. On the seventh day he shal sprinkle a second time
 and wash his clothes and bathe. At sunset he shal be clean.
 As for al the utensils, clothes, skins and al the materials made of
 goat’s hair, you shal deal with them according to the statute of this law.
 Al earthenware vessels shal be broken for they are unclean and can
 no more be purified ever.
 Al creatures that teem on the ground you shal proclaim unclean: the
 weasel, the mouse, every kind of lizard, the wal gecko, the sand
 gecko, the great lizard and the chameleon. Whoever touches them
 dead LI ... [and whatever com]es out of the[m] ... [shal be] unclean [to
 you.] You shal [not] render yourselves unclean by th[em. Whoever
 touches them] dead shal be unclean un[til the] evening. He shal wash
 his clothes and bathe [in water and at] sun[set] he shal be clean.
 Whoever carries any of their bones, their carcass, skin, flesh or claw
 shal wash his clothes and bathe in water. After sunset he shal be
 clean. You shal forewarn the children of Israel about al the impurities.
 They shal not render themselves unclean by those of which I tel you
 on this mountain and they shal not be unclean.
 For I, YHWH, abide among the children of Israel. You shal sanctify
them and they shal be holy. They shal not render themselves
 abominable by anything that I have separated for them as unclean and
 they shal be holy.
 You shal establish judges and officers in al your towns and they
 shal judge the people with just judgement. They shal not be partial in
 (their) judgement. They shal not accept bribes, nor shal they twist
 judgement, for the bribe twists judgement, overturns the works of
 justice, blinds the eyes of the wise, produces great guilt, and profanes
 the house by the iniquity of sin. Justice and justice alone shal you
 pursue that you may live and come to inherit the land that I give you to
 inherit for al days. The man who accepts bribes and twists just
 judgement shal be put to death. You shal not be afraid to execute him.
 You shal not do in your land as the nations do. Everywhere they
 sacrifice, plant sacred trees, erect sacred pi lars and set up carved
 stones to bow down before them and build for them L I ... You shal not
 plant [any tree as a sacred tree beside my altar to be made by you.]
 You shal not erect a sacred pilar [that is hateful to me.] You shal not
 make anywhere in your land a carved stone to bow down before it. You
 shal not sacrifice to me any cattle or sheep with a grave blemish, for
 they are abominable to me. You shal not sacrifice to me any cattle or
 sheep or goat that is pregnant, for this would be an abomination to me.
 You shal not slaughter a cow or a ewe and its young on the same day,
 neither sha l you ki l a mother with her young.
 Of al the firstlings born to your cattle or sheep, you shal sanctify for
 me the male animals. You shal not use the firstling of your cattle for
 work, nor shal you shear the firstling of your smal cattle. You shal eat it
 before me every year in the place that I shal choose. Should it be
 blemished, being lame or blind or (afflicted with) any grave blemish,
 you shal not sacrifice it to me. It is within your towns that you shal eat
 it. The unclean and the clean among you together (may eat it) like a
 gazele or a deer. It is the blood alone that you shal not eat. You shal
 spi l it on the ground like water and cover it with dust. You shal not
 muzzle an ox while it is threshing. You shal not plough with an ox and
 an ass (harnessed) together. You shal not slaughter clean cattle or
 sheep or goat in any of your towns, within a distance of three days’
 journey from my sanctuary. It is rather in my sanctuary that you shal
slaughter it, making of it a holocaust or peace-offering. You shal eat
 and rejoice before me in the place on which I choose to set my name.
 Every clean animal with a blemish, you shal eat it within your towns,
 away from my sanctuary at a distance of thirty stadia. You shal not
 slaughter it close to my sanctuary for its flesh is tainted. You shal not
 eat in my city, which I sanctify by placing my name in it, the flesh of
 cattle, sheep or goat which has not entered my sanctuary. They shal
 sacrifice it there, toss its blood to the base of the altar of holocaust and
 shal burn its fat. L I [When I extend your frontiers as I have told you,
 and if the place where I have chosen to set my name is too distan]t,
 and you say, ‘I wil eat meat’, because you [l]ong for it, [whatever you
 desire,] you may eat, [and you may slau]gh[ter] any of your smal cattle
 or cattle which I give you according to my blessing. You may eat it
 within your towns, the clean and the unclean together, like gazele or
 deer (meat). But you shal firmly abstain from eating the blood. You
 shal spi l it on the ground like water and cover it with dust. For the
 blood is the life and you shal not eat the life with the flesh so that it may
 be wel with you and with your sons after you for ever. You shal do that
 which is correct and good before me, for I am YHWH, your God.
 But al your devoted gifts and votive donations you shal bring when
 you come to the place where I cause my name to abide, and you shal
 sacrifice (them) there before me as you have devoted and vowed them
 with your mouth. When you make a vow, you shal not tarry in fulfi ling it,
 for surely I wi l require it of you and you shal become guilty of a sin. You
 shal keep the word uttered by your lips, for your mouth has vowed
 freely to perform your vow.
 When a man makes a vow to me or swears an oath to take upon
 himself a binding obligation, he must not break his word. Whatever has
 been uttered by his mouth, he shal do it.
 When a woman makes a vow to me, or takes upon herself a binding
 obligation by means of an oath in her father’s house, in her youth, if her
 father hears of her vow or the binding obligation which she has taken
 upon herself and remains silent, al her vows shal stand, and her
 binding obligation which she has taken upon herself shal stand. If,
 however, her father definitely forbids her on the day that he hears of it,
 none of her vows or binding obligations which she has taken upon
herself shal stand, and I wil absolve her because (her father) has
 forbidden her LIV [when he] h[eard of them. But if he annuls them after]
 the da[y that he has] hea[rd of them, he shal bear] her guilt: [her] fa[ther
 has annuled them. Any vow] or binding oath (made by a woman) [to
 mortify herself,] her husband may confi[rm it] or annul it on the day that
 he hears of it, and I wi l absolve her.
 But any vow of a widow or a divorced woman, whatever she has
 taken upon herself shal stand in conformity with al that her mouth has
 uttered.
 Everything that I command you today, see to it that it is kept. You
 shal not add to it, nor detract from it.
 If a prophet or a dreamer appears among you and presents you with
 a sign or a portent, even if the sign or the portent comes true, when he
 says, ‘Let us go and worship other gods whom you have not known!’,
 do not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer, for I am
 testing you to discover whether you love YHWH, the God of your
 fathers, with a l your heart and soul. It is YHWH, your God, that you must
 fo low and serve, and it is him that you must fear and his voice that you
 must obey, and you must hold fast to him. That prophet or dreamer
 shal be put to death for he has preached rebelion against YHWH, your
 God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from
 the house of bondage, to lead you astray from the path that I have
 commanded you to folow. You shal rid yourself of this evil.
 If your brother, the son of your father or the son of your mother, or
 your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend
 who is like your own self, (seeks to) entice you secretly, saying, ‘Let us
 go and worship other gods whom you have not known’, neither you, LV
 [nor] your [fa]thers, some of the gods [of the peoples that are round
 about you, whether near you or far off from you], from the one end of
 the earth to [the other, you shal not yield to him or listen to him, nor
 shal your eye pity] him, nor shal you spare [him, nor shal you conceal
 him; but you shal ki l him; your hand shal be first against him to put him
 to death, and afterwards the hand of al the people. You shal stone him
 to death with stones because he sought to] draw you away [from me
 who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
 And al Israel shal hear, and fear, and never again do such an evil
thing] among you. If in on[e of your cities in which I] give you to dw[el]
 you hear this said: ‘Men, [s]ons of [Beli]al have arisen in your midst and
 have led astray al the inhabitants of their city saying, “Let us go and
 worship gods whom you have not known!”,’ you shal inquire, search
 and investigate carefuly. If the matter is proven true that such an
 abomination has been done in Israel, you shal surely put al the
 inhabitants of that city to the sword. You shal place it and al who are in
 it under the ban, and you shal put the beasts to the sword. You shal
 assemble al the booty in (the city) square and shal burn it with fire, the
 city and al the booty, as a whole-offering to YHWH, your God. It shal
 be a ruin for ever and shal never be rebuilt. Nothing from that which
 has been placed under the ban shal cleave to your hand so that I may
 turn from my hot anger and show you compassion. I wil be
 compassionate to you and multiply you as I told your fathers, provided
 that you obey my voice, keeping al my commandments that I
 command you today, to do that which is correct and good before
 YHWH, your God.
 If among you, in one of your towns that I give you, there is found a
 man or a woman who does that which is wrong in my eyes by
 transgressing my covenant, and goes and worships other gods, and
 bows down before them, or before the sun or the moon, or al the host
 of heaven, if you are told about it, and you hear about this matter, you
 shal search and investigate it carefuly. If the matter is proven true that
 such an abomination has been done in Israel, you shal lead out that
 man or that woman and stone him (to death) with stones.
 LVI . [You shal go to the Levitical priests o]r to the [j]u[dges then in
 office]; you sha l seek their guidance and [they] shal pro[nounce on] the
 matter for which [you have sought their guidance, and they shal
 procl]aim the(ir) judgement to you. You shal act in conformity with the
 law that they proclaim to you and the saying that they declare to you
 from the book of the Law. They shal issue to you a proclamation in
 truth from the place where I choose to cause my name to abide. Be
 careful to do al that they teach you and act in conformity with the
 decision that they communicate to you. Do not stray from the law which
 they proclaim to you to the right or to the left. The man who does not
 listen but acts arrogantly without obeying the priest who is posted there
to minister before me, or the judge, that man shal die. You shal rid
 Israel of evil. A l the people shal hear of it and shal be awe-stricken,
 and none shal ever again be arrogant in Israel.
 When you enter the land which I give you, take possession of it,
 dwel in it and say, ‘I wi l appoint a king over me as do al the nations
 around me!’, you may surely appoint over you the king whom I wil
 choose. It is from among your brothers that you shal appoint a king
 over you. You shal not appoint over you a foreigner who is not your
 brother. He (the king) shal definitely not acquire many horses, neither
 shal he lead the people back to Egypt for war to acquire many horses
 and much silver and gold, for I told you, ‘You shal never again go back
 that way’. He shal not acquire many wives that they may not turn his
 heart away from me. He shal not acquire very much silver and gold.
 When he sits on the throne of his kingdom, they shal write for him
 this law from the book which is before the priests. LV I This is the law
 [that they sha l write for him] ... [They shal count,] on the day that they
 appoint hi[m] king, the sons of Israel from the age of twenty to sixty
 years according to their standard (units). He shal instal at their head
 captains of thousands, captains of hundreds, captains of fifties and
 captains of tens in al their cities. He shal select from among them one
 thousand by tribe to be with him: twelve thousand warriors who shal
 not leave him alone to be captured by the nations. Al the selected men
 whom he has selected shal be men of truth, God-fearers, haters of
 unjust gain and mighty warriors. They shal be with him always, day and
 night. They shal guard him from anything sinful, and from any foreign
 nation in order not to be captured by them. The twelve princes of his
 people shal be with him, and twelve from among the priests, and from
 among the Levites twelve. They shal sit together with him to (proclaim)
 judgement and the law so that his heart shal not be lifted above them,
 and he shal do nothing without them concerning any affair.
 He shal not marry as wife any daughter of the nations, but shal take
 a wife for himself from his father’s house, from his father’s family. He
 shal not take another wife in addition to her, for she alone shal be with
 him al the time of her life. But if she dies, he may marry another from
 his father’s house, from his family. He shal not twist judgement; he
 shal take no bribe to twist a just judgement and shal not covet a field
or a vineyard, any riches or house, or anything desirable in Israel. He
 shal (not) rob LV I ...
 When the king hears of any nation or people intent on plundering
 whatever belongs to Israel, he shal send for the captains of thousands
 and the captains of hundreds posted in the cities of Israel. They shal
 send with him (the captain) one tenth of the people to go with him (the
 king) to war against their enemies, and they shal go with him. But if a
 large force enters the land of Israel, they shal send with him one fifth of
 the warriors. If a king with chariots and horses and a large force
 (comes), they shal send with him one third of the warriors, and the two
 (remaining) divisions sha l guard their city and their boundaries so that
 no marauders invade their land. If the war presses him (the king) hard,
 they shal send to him half of the people, the men of the army, but the
 (other) half of the people shal not be severed from their cities.
 If they triumph over their enemies, smash them, put them to the
 sword and carry away their booty, they shal give the king his tithe of
 this, the priests one thousandth and the Levites one hundredth from
 everything. They shal halve the rest between the combatants and their
 brothers whom they have left in their cities.
 If he (the king) goes to war against his enemies, one fifth of the
 people shal go with him, the warriors, al the mighty men of valour.
 They shal avoid everything unclean, everything shameful, every iniquity
 and guilt. He shal not go until he has presented himself before the
 High Priest who shal inquire on his behalf for a decision by the Urim
 and Tummim. It is at his word that he shal go and at his word that he
 shal come, he and al the children of Israel who are with him. He shal
 not go folowing his heart’s counsel until he (the High Priest) has
 inquired for a decision by the Urim and Tummim. He shal (then)
 succeed in al his ways on which he has set out according to the
 decision which LIX ... and they shal disperse them in many lands and
 they shal become a h[orror], a byword, a mockery. With a heavy yoke
 and in extreme want, they shal there serve gods made by human
 hands, of wood and stone, silver and gold. During this time their cities
 shal become a devastation, a laughing-stock and a wasteland, and
 their enemies shal devastate them. They shal sigh in the lands of their
 enemies and scream because of the heavy yoke. They shal cry out but
I wi l not listen; they sha l scream but I wi l not answer them because of
 their evil doings. I wi l hide my face from them and they shal become
 food, plunder and prey. None shal save them because of their
 wickedness, because they have broken my covenant and their soul
 has loathed my law until they have incurred every guilt. Afterwards they
 wi l return to me with al their heart and al their soul, in conformity with
 al the words of this law, and I wil save them from the hand of their
 enemies and redeem them from the hand of those who hate them, and
 I wi l bring them to the land of their fathers. I wi l redeem them, and
 increase them and exult over them. I wi l be their God and they shal be
 my people.
 The king whose heart and eyes have gone astray from my
 commandments shal never have one to sit on the throne of his fathers,
 for I wi l cut off his posterity for ever so that it shal no more rule over
 Israel. But if he walk after my rules and keep my commandments and
 do that which is correct and good before me, no heir to the throne of
 the kingdom of Israel shal be cut off from among his sons for ever. I wi l
 be with him and wil save him from the hand of those who hate him and
 from the hand of those who seek his life. I wil place al his enemies
 before him and he shal rule over them according to his pleasure and
 they shal not rule over him. I wil set him on an upward, not on a
 downward, course, to be the head and not the tail, that the days of his
 kingdom may be lengthened greatly for him and his sons after him.
 LX ... and al their wave-offerings. A l their firstling male [bea]sts and
 al ... of their beasts and al their holy gifts which they shal sanctify to
 me together with al their holy gifts of praise and a proportion of their
 offering of birds, wild animals and fish, one thousandth of their catch,
 and al that they shal devote, and the proportion of the booty and the
 plunder.
 To the Levites shal belong the tithe of the corn, the wine and the oil
 that they have sanctified to me first; the shoulder from those who
 slaughter a sacrifice and a proportion of the booty, the plunder and the
 catch of birds, wild animals and fish, one hundredth; the tithe from the
 young pigeons and from the honey one fiftieth. To the priests shal
 belong one hundredth of the young pigeons, for I have chosen them
 from al your tribes to attend on me and minister (before me) and bless
my name, he and his sons always. If a Levite come from any town
 anywhere in Israel where he sojourns to the place where I wi l choose
 to cause my name to abide, (if he come) with an eager soul, he may
 minister like his brethren the Levites who attend on me there. He shal
 have the same share of food with them, besides the inheritance from
 his father’s family.
 When you enter the land which I give you, do not learn to practise the
 abominations of those nations. There shal be found among you none
 who makes his son or daughter pass through fire, nor an augur or a
 soothsayer, a diviner or a sorcerer, one who casts spels or a medium,
 or wizards or necromancers. For they are an abomination before me,
 al who practise such things, and it is because of these abominations
 that I drive them out before you. You shal be perfect towards YHWH,
 your God. For these nations that LXI ... to ut[ter a word] in [my] n[ame
 which I have n]ot comman[ded him to] utter, or wh[o speaks in the
 name of oth]er go[ds], that prophet shal be put to death. If you say in
 your heart, ‘How shal we know the word which YHWH has not
 uttered?’, when the word uttered by the prophet in the name of YHWH
 is not fulfi led and does not come true, that is not a word that I have
 uttered. The prophet has spoken arrogantly; do not fear him.
 A single witness may not come forward against a man in the matter
 of any iniquity or sin which he has committed. It is on the evidence of
 two witnesses or three witnesses that a case can be established. If a
 malicious witness comes forward against a man to testify against him
 in a case of a crime, both disputants shal stand before me and before
 the priests and the Levites and before the judges then in office, and the
 judges shal inquire, and if the witness is a false witness who has
 testified falsely against his brother, you sha l do to him as he proposed
 to do to his brother. You shal rid yourselves of evil. The rest shal hear
 of it and shal be awe-stricken and never again shal such a thing be
 done in your midst. You shal have no mercy on him: life for life, eye for
 eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
 When you go to war against your enemies, and you see horses and
 chariots and an army greater than yours, be not afraid of them, for I am
 with you who brought you out of the land of Egypt. When you approach
 the battle, the priest sha l come forward to speak to the army and say
to them, ‘Hear, Israel, you approach ... ’ ... LX I [and another man shal
 use its fruit. If any man has betrothed a woman but has not yet married
 her, he shal return] home. Otherwise he may die in the war and
 another man may take her. [The] of[ficers shal continue] to address the
 army and say, ‘If any man is afraid and has lost heart, he shal go and
 return. Otherwise he may render his kinsmen as faint-hearted as
 himself.’
 When the judges have finished addressing the army, they shal
 appoint army captains at the head of the people.
 When you approach a city to fight it, (first) offer it peace. If it seeks
 peace and opens (its gates) to you, then al the people found in it shal
 become your forced labourers and shal serve you. If it does not make
 peace with you, but is ready to fight a war against you, you shal
 besiege it and I wi l deliver it into your hands. You shal put al its males
 to the sword, but the women, the children, the beasts and al that is in
 the city, a l its booty, you may take as spoil for yourselves. You may
 enjoy the use of the booty of your enemies which I give you. Thus shal
 you treat the very distant cities, those which are not among the cities of
 these nations. But in the cities of the peoples which I give you as an
 inheritance, you shal not leave alive any creature. Indeed you shal
 utterly exterminate the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the
 Hivites, the Jebusites, the Girgashites and the Perizzites as I have
 commanded you, that they may not teach you to practise al the
 abominations that they have performed to their gods.
 LX I ... [a heifer with which] he has not worked, which [has not drawn
 the yoke. The elders of] that city [shal bring down] the heifer to a ravine
 with an ever-flowing stream which has never been sown or cultivated,
 and there they shal break its neck.
 The priests, the sons of Levi, shal come forward, for I have chosen
 them to minister before me and bless my name, and every dispute and
 every assault shal be decided by their word. Al the elders of the city
 nearest to the body of the murdered man shal wash their hands over
 the head of the heifer whose neck has been broken in the ravine. They
 shal declare, ‘Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see
 it happen. Accept expiation for thy people Israel whom thou hast
 redeemed, O YHWH, and do not permit the guilt of innocent blood to
rest among thy people, Israel. Let this blood be expiated for them.’ You
 shal rid Israel (of the guilt) of innocent blood, and you shal do that
 which is correct and good before YHWH, your God. When you go to
 war against your enemies, and I deliver them into your hands, and you
 capture some of them, if you see among the captives a pretty woman
 and desire her, you may take her to be your wife. You shal bring her to
 your house, you shal shave her head, and cut her nails. You shal
 discard the clothes of her captivity and she shal dwel in your house,
 and bewail her father and mother for a ful month. Afterwards you may
 go to her, consummate the marriage with her and she wil be your wife.
 But she shal not touch whatever is pure for you for seven years, neither
 shal she eat of the sacrifice of peace-offering until seven years have
 elapsed. Afterwards she may eat. LXIV ... [the firstfruits of his virility;
 he has the right of the first-born.]
 If a man has a disobedient and rebelious son who refuses to listen
 to his father and mother, nor listens to them when they chastise him,
 his father and mother shal take hold of him and bring him to the elders
 of his city, to the gate of his place. They shal say to the elders of his
 town, ‘This son of ours is disobedient and rebelious; he does not listen
 to us; he is a glutton and a drunkard.’ Al the men of his city shal stone
 him with stones and he shal die, and you shal rid yourselves of evil. Al
 the children of Israel shal hear of it and be awe-stricken. If a man
 slanders his people and delivers his people to a foreign nation and
 does evil to his people, you shal hang him on a tree and he shal die.
 On the testimony of two witnesses and on the testimony of three
 witnesses he shal be put to death and they shal hang him on the tree.
 If a man is guilty of a capital crime and flees (abroad) to the nations,
 and curses his people, the children of Israel, you shal hang him also on
 the tree, and he shal die. But his body shal not stay overnight on the
 tree. Indeed you shal bury him on the same day. For he who is hanged
 on the tree is accursed of God and men. You shal not polute the
 ground which I give you to inherit. If you see your kinsman’s ox or
 sheep or donkey straying, do not neglect them; you shal indeed return
 them to your kinsman. If your kinsman does not live near you, and you
 do not know who he is, you shal bring the animal to your house and it
 shal be with you until he claims (it). LXV ...
[Wh]en a bird’s nest happens to lie before you by the roadside, on
 any tree or on the ground, with fledglings or eggs, and the hen is sitting
 on the fledglings or the eggs, you shal not take the hen with the young.
 You shal surely let the hen escape and take only the young so that it
 may be wel with you and your days shal be prolonged. When you build
 a new house, you shal construct a parapet on the roof so that you do
 not bring blood-guilt on your house if anyone should fal from it.
 When a man takes a wife, has sexual intercourse with her and takes
 a dislike to her, and brings a baseless charge against her, ruining her
 reputation, and says, ‘I have taken this woman, approached her, and
 did not find the proof of virginity in her’, the father or the mother of the
 girl sha l take the girl’s proof of virginity and bring it to the elders at the
 gate. The girl’s father sha l say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to be
 this man’s wife; he has taken a dislike to her and has brought a
 baseless charge against her saying, “I have not found the proof of
 virginity in your daughter.” Here is the proof of my daughter’s virginity.’
 They shal spread out the garment before the elders of that city. The
 elders of that city shal take that man and chastise him. They shal fine
 him one hundred pieces of silver which they shal give to the father of
 the girl, because he (the husband) has tried to ruin the reputation of an
 Israelite virgin. He sha l not LXVI ... [When a virgin betrothed to a man
 is found by another man in the city and he lies with her, they shal bring
 both of them to the gate] of that city and stone them with stones and
 they shal be put to death: the girl because she has not shouted (for
 help, although she was) in the city, and the man because he has
 dishonoured his neighbour’s wife. You shal rid yourselves of evil. If the
 man has found the woman in the fields in a distant place hidden from
 the city, and raped her, only he who has lain with her shal be put to
 death. To the girl they shal do nothing since she has committed no
 crime worthy of death. For this affair is like that of a man who attacks
 his neighbour and murders him. For it was in the fields that he found
 her and the betrothed girl shouted (for help), but none came to her
 rescue.
 When a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed, but is suitable to
 him according to the rule, and lies with her, and he is found out, he who
 has lain with her shal give the girl’s father fifty pieces of silver and she
shal be his wife. Because he has dishonoured her, he may not divorce
 her al his days. A man shal not take his father’s wife and shal not lift
 his father’s skirt. A man shal not take the wife of his brother and shal
 not lift the skirt of his brother, the son of his father or the son of his
 mother, for this is unclean. A man shal not take his sister, the daughter
 of his father or the daughter of his mother, for this is abominable. A
 man shal not take his father’s sister or his mother’s sister, for this is
 immoral. A man shal not take the daughter of his brother or the
 daughter of his sister for this is abominable. (A man) shal not take
 LXVI ...
MMT (Miqsat Ma‘ase Ha- Torah) - Some
 Observances of the Law
 (4Q394-9)
 Mutilated fragments of six Cave 4 manuscripts have acquired
 international notoriety on account of a lawsuit filed before the
 Jerusalem district court which found that one of the official editors of
 this text, Elisha Qimron, owned the copyright of the MMT text as
 reconstructed by him. Hershel Shanks, of the Biblical Archaeology
 Society of Washington, was held responsible for breaching this
 copyright and ordered to pay $43,000 damages. However, an appeal
 having been lodged with the Israeli Supreme Court, the matter is sti l
 subjudice.
 When the contents of the six copies are assembled into a single
 account, they amount to 120 lines mostly of a fragmentary nature. The
 document begins with a sectarian calendar (section A), which may or
 may not pertain to the original MMT; it continues with a series of
 special rules (section B), and ends with an exhortation (section C).
 MMT has been caled an epistle, but since it lacks the introductory and
 concluding formulae of a letter, it is more likely to be a kind of legal
 tractate. It is addressed to a single leading personality who is
 compared to King David. The dramatis personae consist of a ‘we’
 party, a ‘you’ party, and a ‘they’ party. The group responsible for MMT,
 who refer to themselves as ‘we‘, seek to detach the leader of the ‘you’
 party from the erroneous views propounded by the ‘they’ party. The
 editors claim that MMT was written by the Teacher of Righteousness
 and sent to the Wicked Priest; that the views of the ‘we’ party are akin
 to those of the Sadducees; and that the ‘they’ party are the Pharisees.
 However, these are no more than hypotheses. In particular, the
 identification of the author with the Teacher of Righteousness is less
 likely than that of the leader of the ‘you’ group with the man who was to
become the Wicked Priest, probably Jonathan Maccabaeus.
 It has also been advanced that the original nucleus of the Qumran
 Community, responsible for MMT, consisted of early or proto
Sadducees. However, one should bear in mind that the priests in this
 writing are never caled sons of Zadok or Sadducees, but are referred
 to as sons of Aaron (cf. 4QSb (=4Q256) and 4QSd (4Q258) above, p.
 118). The aleged Sadducee connection relies on three legal rules, out
 of a list of more than twenty, in MMT which represent opinions identical
 with the halakhah attributed in rabbinic literature to the Sadducees,
 and contrasted with the stance taken by the Pharisees (cf. mParah 5:4
 and MMT B 13-17; mYad 4:7; mToh 8:9 and MMT B 55-8; mYad 4:6
 and MMT B 72-4).
 The chief topics of controversy are (I) the calendar (if it is an integral
 part of the document); (2) ritual purity (acceptability of Gentile offerings,
 law on slaughter, the ‘red heifer’ ritual, exclusion of the blind and the
 deaf, law relating to lepers, purity of running liquids, fourth-year fruit
 and tithe of cattle, ban on dogs in Jerusalem, the law regulating contact
 with dead bodies); (3) marriage and intermarriage rules, and (4)
 decrees regulating entry into the congregation. MMT is particularly
 important as a source of ancient legal debate. It is unique among the
 Dead Sea Scrols and foreshadows the halakhic process developed
 and practised by later rabbis.
 Instead of presenting a composite text, the translation wi l reflect
 actual manuscripts and folow their line numbering. If there are
 overlapping fragments, gaps in the main manuscript wi l be fi led from
 the paralel text and the borrowing wi l appear between {}. However, to
 assist the reader who desires to consult the Qimron-Strugnel edition,
 the line numbers of their composite text are given in brackets. Unlike
 the editors, I have been economical with purely conjectural restorations
 of the many gaps. Obscurities in the translation therefore faithfuly
 reflect the real status of the Hebrew original.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Qimron and J. Strugnel, Qumran
 Cave 4, V (DJD, X, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1994).
1. MMT A = A SECTARIAN CALENDAR
 (4Q394 1-2)
 (The fragmentary calendar is presented in five paralel columns which
 origina ly covered eighteen lines. Hence the end of the calendar at the
 top of 4Q394 3-7 i is listed as lines 19 to 21 by Qimron-Strugnel.
 Whether this calendar is part of the original MMT or is merely copied
 on the same scrol is uncertain.)
 I [On the sixteenth of it (of the second month): sabbath.]
 On the twenty-third of it: sabbath.
 [On] the thir[tie]th [of it: sabbath.
 On the seventh of the third month: sabbath.
 On the fourteenth of it: sabbath.
 On the fifteenth of it: Feast of Weeks.
 On the twenty-] I [f]irs[t] of it: sabbath.
 [On] the twenty-eighth of it: sabbath.
 The first of the sabbath (=Sunday), and the secon[d da]y (=Monday)
 [and the third are to be added.
 And the season is complete: ninety-one days.
 The first of the fourth month: Memorial day.
 On the fourth] I of it: [sabbath.]
 On the e[leventh] of it: sabbath.
 On the eighteenth of it: sabbath.
 On the twenty-fifth of it: sabbath.
 On the second of the fift[h] (month): [sa]bb[ath.
 On the third of it: Feast of Wine, first of sabbath (Sunday).]
 IV [On the ninth of it: sabbath.]
 On the sixteenth of it: sabbath.
 On the twenty-third of it: sabbath.
 [On the th]irtieth [of it: sabbath.
 On the seventh of the sixth (month): sabbath.
 On the fourteenth of it: sabbath.
On the twenty-first] V of it: sabbath.
 On the twenty-second of it: Feast of Oil, fir[st of sab]bath (Sunday).
 Af[terwards]: offe[ring of Wood].
 4Q394 3-71 i
 (19) [The (twenty)-eighth of it (of the twelfth month)]: sabbath.
 The first [of the] s[abbath (=Sunday) and the second day (=Monday)
 and the third are to be ad]ded to it. (20) And the year is complete:
 three-hundred and si[xty-four] (21) days. vacat
 2. MMT B = SPECIAL RULES
 (4Q394 3-7 i conflated with 4Q395)
 (I) These are some of our teachings [ ] which are [ (2) the] works which
 w[e think and a]l of them concern [ ] (3) and the purity of...
 [And concerning the offering of the wh]eat of the [Gentiles which they
 ...] (4) and they touch it ... and de[file it ... One should not accept
 anything] (5) from the wheat [of the Gen]tiles [and none of it is] to enter
 the Sanctuary.
 [And concerning] {the sacrifice} (4Q395) ... (6) which they cook in a
 vessel ... {in it} (4Q395) (7) the meat of their sacrifices and that they ...
 in the courtyar[d ...] {it} (4Q395) (8) with the broth of their sacrifice.
 And concerning the sacrifice of the Gentiles ... [we consider that]
 they {sacrifice} (4Q395) (9) to [an idol and] that is [like] a woman
 fornicating with him.
 ... {the sacrifice} (4Q395) (10) of peace-off[erings] which they
 postpone from one day to the next. But [it is written (cf. Lev. 7:15)] ( I)
 that the meal-offe[ring] {is eaten} (4Q395) with the fat and the meat on
 the day of [their] being sacrifi[ced. For the sons] (12) of the priest[s]
 {are to take care of this matter} (4Q395) so as not to (13) burden the
people with sin.
 {And concerning the purity of the heifer of the sin-offering) (4Q395),
 (14) he who slaughters it and he who burns it and he who colects {its
 ashes and he who sprinkles the} (4Q395) [water] (15) of purification 
al these {are to be pure} (4Q395) at sunset (16) so that the pure shal
 sprinkle the impure. For the sons
 (4Q394 3-7 i conflated with 4Q395)
 (17) {of Aaron are to be} (4Q395) ...
 And furthermore (18) [concerning the sk]ins of the cattle [and the
 sheep ... from] (19) their [skin]s vessel[s ... [they are not to (20) bring]
 them to the Sanctuary ...
 (4Q397 1-2 conflated with 4Q398 1-3)
 (21)...
 And furthermore concerning the skin[s and bones of unclean
 animals, they shal not make from their bones] and from their s[k]i(ns]
 (22) handles of v[essels and] ...
 And furthermore [concerning the s]kin of the carcass (23) of a clean
 [animal], he who carries their carcass shal not touch the [sacred]
 purity.
 (24) And concerning ... (25) ...
 (4Q394 3-7 i conflated with 4Q397 3)
 [the sons of] (26) the pri[es]ts are to [be care]f[ul] regarding {al these
 matters} (4Q397 3) so as not (27) to burden the people with sin.
 [And concerning that which is written, [If a man slaughters in the
 camp or (28) slaughters] outside the camp an ox or a lamb or a goat
 (Lev. 7:13) for ... {on the northern side of the camp} (4Q397 3). (29)
 And we consider the Sanctuary [as the tent of meeting and
Je]rusale[m] as (30) the {camp and out[side] the} (4Q397 3) camp [i.e.
 outside Jerusalem], that is the camp (31) of their towns. Outside the
 camp ... they bring out the ashes [(32) of the] altar and they burn ... For
 Jerusalem] is the place which (33) [He has chosen] {from al the tri[bes
 of Israel]} (4Q397 3) ...
 (4Q396 1-2 i conflated with 4Q394 8 i and 4Q397 5)
 (35) ... they [do no]t slaughter in the Sanctuary.
 (36) [And concerning pregnant animals] {we consider} (4Q397 5)
 [that one should not sacrifice] the mother and the unborn young on the
 same day.
 (37) [And concerning eating, w]e consider that the unborn young (38)
 may be eaten ... (provided it has been slaughtered) ... [this is] so and
 the saying is written concerning a pregnant animal. vacat
 (39) [And concerning the Ammon]{ite and the Moabite} (4Q394 8 iii)
 and the {bastard} (4Q397 5) [and the man whose testicles] have been
 crushed [and one] whose penis [has been cut off] who enter (40) the
 congregation, [... and] they [ta]ke [wives so as to be] {one} (4Q397 5)
 bone (with them) ... (41)...
 (4Q394 8 i conflated with 4Q396 1-2 i-i and 4Q397 5)
 (42) {impurities.
 And furthermore we consider} (4Q397 5) (43) [that they should not ...
 and should not have intercour]se with them. (44) [... and they should]
 {not unite with them} (4Q397 5) so as to make them (45) [into one
 bone (46) ... that some of the people ... (47) ... (48) {from al} (4Q397 5)
 (sexual) mingling (49) ... {and to be fearful of the Sanctuary} (4Q396 1
2 ii).
 (4Q396 1-2 i)
[And furthermore concerning] {the blind} (4Q394 8 iv) (50) who do not
 see how to beware of al mingl[ings]
 (4Q394 8 iv conflated with 4Q396 1-2 i and 4Q397 6-13)
 (51) and do not see the minglings which entail guilt (offering). (52) And
 furthermore concerning the deaf who have not heard the decrees and
 judgements and purity (rules) and have not (53) heard the judgements
 of Israel - for he who has not seen and has not heard (them) does not
 (54) know how to practise (them); yet they come to the pure food of the
 Sanctuary. vacat
 (55) And furthermore concerning the pouring (of liquids), we say that it
 contains no (56) purity.
 And furthermore the pouring does not separate the impure (57)
 {from the pure} (4Q397 6-13) for the poured liquid and that in the
 receptacle are alike, (58) one liquid.
 And {dogs} (4Q397 6-13) are not to be brought to the sacred camp
 for (59) they may eat some of the bones from the Sanctua[ry] to which
 meat is sti l attached. For (60) Jerusalem is {the sacred camp} (4Q397
 6-13) and is the place
 (4Q396 1-2 i conflated with 4Q394 8 iv and 4Q397 6-13)
 (61) which He has chosen from al the tribes of Israel, for Jerusalem is
 the head (62) of the camps of Israel.
 And furthermore con[cerning the pl]anting of fruit trees planted (63)
 in the land of Israel, they are like {firstfruits} (4Q397 6-13) destined for
 the {priests} (4Q397 6-13)- {And the tithe} (4Q394 8 iv) of the cattle
 (64) and sheep is for the priests.
 And furthermore concerning the lepers, we (65) s[ay that they shal
 not c]ome (into contact) with the sacred pure food for {they shal be}
 (4Q397 6-13) separated (66) ...
Furthermore it is written that from the time he (the leper) has shaved
 and washed, he shal stay outside (67) ... [for seven] days. And now
 while their impurity is with them ... [they sha l not (68) come into contact
 w]ith the sacred pure food of the house. And you know (69) ... and it is
 concealed from him, he is to bring (70) {a sin-offering) (4Q397 6-13).
 [And concerning the person who does anything with a high hand it is
 writ]ten that he is one who despises and reviles (God) (cf. Num. xv, 30
31). (71) ... {impurities of leprosy} (4Q397 6-13), they are not to eat
 from the holy things
 (4Q396 1-2 iv conflated with 4Q397 6-13)
 (72) until the sun has set on the eighth day.
 And concerning [the impurities] (73) {of a man, we say that every}
 (4Q397 6-13) bone to which (74) flesh is or [is not] attached is to be
 treated according to the law of the dead or slain. vacat
 (75) And concerning fornication practised by the people, they should
 be s[ons of] holiness, (76) as it is written, {Israel} (4Q397 6-13) is holy
 (Jer. ii, 3).
 And concerning [his clea]n ani[mal], (77) it is written that it shal not
 be mated with a different kind.
 And concerning [his clothes], it is written that they shal [not (78) be
 of mixed] material.
 And he shal not sow his field and vine[yard with two kind]s. (79) For
 they are holy and the sons of Aaron are most h[oly]. (80) And you know
 that some of the priests and [the people mingle] (81) [and they] unite
 and defile the [holy] seed and also (82) their [seed] with whores f[or] ...
 (4Q397 14-21)
 (4) And concerning the wome[n ... violen]ce and betrayal ... (5) For in
 these ... [on account of] the violence and fornication they perish[ed ... ]
 (6) places.
[And furthermore] it is written [in the Book of Moses that] You sha l
 not bring an abominable thing in[to your house (cf. Deut. vii, 26) for]
 (7) an abominable thing is detestable.
 3. MMT C = THE EXHORTATION
 (4Q397 14-21 I fo lowed by 4Q398)
 [And you know that] we have separated from the mass of the peo[ple]
 ... (8) and from mingling with them in these matters and from being in
 contact with them in these (matters). And you k[now that no] treachery
 or lie or evil (9) is found in our hands for we give for [these] th[e ...
 And furthermore] (10) we [have written] to you (sing.) that you should
 understand {the Book of Moses} (4Q398 14-17 i) and the Book[s of
 the Pr]ophets and Davi[d and al (11) the events] of every age. And in
 {the Book is written} (40398 14-17 i) ... not [for] (12) you {and the days
 of old} (40398 14-17 i).
 And furthermore it is written that [you wi l depart] from the w[a]y and
 that evil wi l befa l you (cf. Deut. xxxi, 29). {And it is written} (40398 14
17 i),
 (4Q398 14-17 i)
 (13) And it (14) [shal come to pas]swhen al these {things}
 (4.Q39714-21) [be]fa l you in the en[d] of days, the blessing (15) and
 the curse, [then you wi l ca l them to mind] and retu[rn to Him with a] l
 your heart (16) and a l your soul (Deut. xxx, 1-2) at the end of days.
 (17) [And it is written in the Book] of Moses and in the Boo[ks of the
 Prophet]s that there shal come ... (18) [and the blessings came]
 (4Q398 11-13)
in the days of Solomon the son of David. And the curses (19) came
 from in the days of Jeroboam the son of Nebat (20) until Jerusalem
 and Zedekiah king of Judah were exiled that He wil b[rin]g them to ...
 And we recognize that some of the blessings and curses which are
 (21) written in the B[ook of Mo]ses have come. And this is at the end of
 days when they wil come back to Israel (22) for [ever] ... and shal not
 turn back-war [ds]. And the wicked shal act (23) wickedly and ...
 Remember the kings of Israel and understand their works that each
 of them who (24) feared [the To]rah was saved from troubles, and to
 those who were seekers of the Law, (25) their iniquities
 (4Q398 14-17 i conflated with 4Q399)
 were [par]doned.
 Remember David, that he was a man of piety, and that (26) he was
 also saved from many troubles and pardoned.
 We have also written to you (sing.) concerning (27) some of the
 observances of the Law (miqsat ma‘ase ha-Torab), which we think are
 beneficial to you and your people. For [we have noticed] that (28)
 prudence and knowledge of the Law are with you.
 Understand al these (matters) and ask Him to straighten (29) your
 counsel and put you far away from thoughts of evil and the counsel of
 Belial. (30) Consequently, you wi l rejoice at the end of time when you
 discover that some of our sayings are true. (31) And it wi l be reckoned
 for you as righteousness when you perform what is right and good
 before Him, for your own good (32) and for that of Israel. vacat
The Wicked and the Holy
 (4Q181)
 The first fragment of a document from Cave 4(4Q181), which its editor
 has left untitled, describes in a manner similar to Community Rule IV
 the respective destinies of the damned and the chosen. See J. M.
 Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,V, 79-80; cf. J. Strugnel, RQ 7
 (1970), 254-5; J. T. Milik, JJS 23 (1972), 114-18.
 ... for guilt with the congregation of his people, for it has walowed in
 the sin of the sons of men; (and it was appointed) for great judgements
 and evil diseases in the flesh according to the mighty deeds of God
 and in accordance with their wickedness. In conformity with their
 congregation of uncleanness, (they are to be separated) as a
 community of wickedness until (wickedness) ends.
 In accordance with the mercies of God, according to His goodness
 and wonderful glory, He caused some of the sons of the world to draw
 near (Him) ... to be counted with Him in the com[munity of the ‘g]ods’
 as a congregation of holiness in service for eternal life and (sharing)
 the lot of His holy ones ... each man according to his lot which He has
 cast for ... for eternal life ...
4QHalakhah A
 (4Q251)
 Twenty-six severely damaged fragments, palaeographicaly dated to
 the late first century BCE, represent extracts from the Pentateuch with
 textual variations and exegetical paraphrases. The main topics are the
 Sabbath, compensation for injuries, firstfruits, the priest’s wife,
 forbidden marital unions, etc.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Larson, M. R. Lehman and L.
 Schiffman, DJD, XXXV, 25-51.
 Frs. 1-2
 ... and to draw water from a cistern ... the drawing ... [No] man shal
 take anything from his place on the Sabbath, [from outside the house
 into it] or from the house outsi[de] ... for him to interpret and read in the
 Book on the [Sabba]th ...
 Frs. 4-7 i
 ... [Wh]en m[en] quarrel [and one stri]kes [his fe low with a stone or with
 his fist and the man does not] di[e but keeps] his [be]d, [then if the man
 rises again] and w[alks outside, he who injur]ed him is not guilty. Only
 [he shal pay for the loss of his time] and for his medical [treatment].
 vacat
 [When a man strikes his slave, male or female] with a rod ... (cf.
 Exod. 21:18-20).
Fr. 8
 [When a man strikes his slave, male or female,] in the eye [and
 destroys it, or if he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he
 shal free] him. He shal pay for the lo[ss of his time and for his medica]l
 treatment [for the sake of his eye or his tooth (cf. Exod. 21:26
 combined with 21:19). When an ox gores a man or] a woman, the ox
 shal be kiled and they wil stone it [and its flesh shal not be eaten. But
 the owner of the ox wil be not guilty. But if the ox has been accustomed
 to gore] in the past, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it
 in, and it has ki led [a ma]n or a woman, [the ox shal be stoned and its
 owner also shal be put to death. If a ransom is laid upon him, then the
 man shal give ... (cf. Exod. 21:28-30).
 Fr. 9
 [Let no man eat wheat, wi]ne or oil unless [the priest has waved] their
 best, the firstfruit of the produce. No man shal delay, for [wine] is the
 firstfruit of the produce, [and] the wheat. The juice ... (cf. Exod. 22:28).
 The firstfruits are the leavened loaves which they bring [on the d]ay of
 the [firstfruits.] These are firstfruits: let no man eat new wheat ... until the
 day of the bread of the firstfruits has come ...
 Fr. 16
 ... When a woman is given to a priest, she [may eat] the food of her
 husband. [... One acquired by him for money and one born into his
 house, they] may eat his food. But a whore [and a profaned woman
 may not eat the consecrated food. And] every unfaithful deed which [a
man] shal commit ... to eat, for it is an abomination ... owner who is
 without redeemer ...
 Fr. 17
 On cases of incest ... No man shal take the w[ife of his father so as to
 uncover the skirt of his father. No man shal take] the daughter of his
 brother or the daughter of [his] si[ster]. No man shal uncover the
 nakedness of the sister of [his] mo[ther or of his father. This is
 wickedness. A woman shal not be given to the brother of] her father or
 to the brother of her mother ... A man shal not uncover the nakedness
 of ... A man shal not give his daughter ...
4QHalakhah B
 (4Q264a)
 Three fragments of a legal document, the first of which partly overlaps
 with various sections of 4Q421, deal with Sabbath regulations.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XXXV, 53-6.
 Fr. I i
 I ... [No man shal revise the scro]l of a book reading its script on the
 day of [Sabbath] ... But they may read and study it. No man shal make
 plans with his mouth ... [on the day of Sabbath. He shal not talk] about
 any matter relating to work or wealth or ... on the day of Sabbath. He
 shal sp[eak no wo]rd apart from speaking holy words as prescribed
 and from pronouncing blessings of God. He may talk about eating and
 drink[ing] ...
4QTohorot (Purities) A
 (4Q274)
 This is the first of ten Cave 4 manuscripts dealing with purity matters.
 The text translated represents column I of the document and the first
 word of column I. 4Q274 deals with uncleanness caused by bodily
 fluxes and issues of blood and with the means of its removal. Parts of
 fr. 3 are concerned with the uncleanness associated with the juice
 oozing out of fruit.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XXXV, 99
109.
 Fr. I i
 I ... [Let him not] begin to cast his lot. He shal lie on a bed of sorrow
 and sit in a seat of sighs. He shal dwel in isolation with al the unclean,
 and away from (food) purity at a distance of twelve cubits in the wing
 (assigned) to him (?) on the north-west of every dweling-house
 according to this measure. Every man from among the unclean ... he
 shal bathe in water [on the seven]th d[ay] and wash his clothes, and
 afterwards he may eat. For this is what he said, He sha l cry, Unclean,
 unclean (Lev. xiii, 45), as long as [the pla]gue af[fects him].
 A woman with a seven-day issue of blood shal not touch a man with
 a flux, nor any vessel touched by a man who has a flux, nor anything he
 has lain or sat on. But if she has touched (them), she shal wash her
 garments and bathe, and afterwards she may eat. Above al, she shal
 not mingle (with the pure) [during] her seven days so that she may not
 polute the c[amp]s of the Ho[ly] of Israel. Neither shal she touch any
 woman with a long-term issue of blood. And the person, either male or
female, who counts (the seven days: cf. Lev. xv, 13) shal not touch the
 menstruant during her uncleanness. Only when she has purified herself
 [from] her [un]cleanness (may she be touched), for the blood of the
 menstruant is reckoned as a flux for anyone who touches it. And if he
 has touched [bodily] f[lux or s]emen, h[e shal] be unclean. [And he who
 has tou]ched a man from among al these unclean persons during the
 seven days of [his] cleans[ing] he shal [n]ot eat. If he has become
 unclean because of a corp[se, he shal bathe in wat]er, wash (his
 garments) and afterwards I he may e[at].
 Fr. 2 i
 ... when they sprinkle on him for the first time. He shal bathe and wash
 (his clothes) before [he eats. If it oc]curs for him on the seventh (day)
 on the Sabbath day, he shal not sprinkle on the Sabbath, for [He says:
 Keep] the Sabbath (Deut. v, 12). But he shal not touch anything pure
 until he has repeated it. Al that touches semen be it a man or any
 vessel shal be immersed. And the bearer of it [shal immer]se. And the
 garment on which it (the semen) is and the vessel which carries it shal
 be immersed [in wate]r. If there is a man in the camp who is unable to
 do this (lacks a spare garment), he shal bath[e and put on an]y
 garment which has not been touched by it (the semen) as long as it
 does not touch his bread (food). He who touches [his bed or] his [sea]t,
 if [his] gar[ment] has not touched it (the semen), [he shal bathe] in
 water. But if [his garment has touched it (the bed or the seat)], he shal
 wash it (the garment). A man shal wash (his garment) with water for
 (eating) a l consecrated food ...
 4Q274 3 i-i
 I ... God uncovers the pupil of his eye, he shal read ... al their precepts
 ... for he who eats ... and he is unclean ... [if] (the fruit’s) juice [has not
oozed out, he shal eat it in purity, but al those] which have been
 squeezed so that their juice has oozed out, no man should eat them [if]
 an unclean man [has to]uched them. [And al]so from the greens ... or
 ripe cucumber. Whoever has ...
 I ... and any (vessel) which has a seal ... [shal be unclean] for a
 cleaner man. Any green [that has no] moisture of dew [on it] may be
 eaten. And if it is n[ot eaten, let him put it] into the midst of the water.
 For if a man [were to put it on] the ground, and [water] reached it when
 the rain [descended] on it, if an [unclean man] touches it, [let him not
 eat it] in the field by any means until the period [of his purification] ...
 Any earthen vessel which ... which is in its midst ... the liquid ...
4QTohorot Ba-Bb
 (40276-7)
 These two fragments deal with the biblical law of the ‘red heifer’, the
 ashes of which were used for the preparation of the ‘water for (the
 removal of) uncleanness’ necessary for the cleansing of impurity
 resulting from contact with a dead body. Relevant extracts from Num.
 xix are freely quoted. The subject is treated also in MMT B 13 (4Q394
 frs. 3-7 i, 16-20). The script dates to the late first century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XXXV, 111
19.
 4Q276
 [And the priest wears the garments] in which he is not ministering in
 the Sanctuary ... renders the garments guilty. And he slaughtered [the]
 heifer before Him. He shal carry her blood in a clay vessel which is
 [not brough]t near the altar. And with his finger he shal sprinkle some
 of her blood seven [times towa]rds the front of the tent of meeting. And
 he shal cast the cedarwood, [the hyssop and the scarlet ma]terial in
 the midst of her burning. [And he who burns (it)], a man who is clean of
 every corpse uncleanness, [shal wash his clothes and gather] up the
 ashes of the heifer [and shal de]posit them to be kept [by the children
 of Israel for the water for uncleanness, for the removal of sin. And] the
 priest sha l put on ...
 4Q277
The priest shal take the hyssop and ... The man cleansed from
 uncleanness (lasting until) the evening [shal gather the ashes of the
 heifer and give them to] the priest who atones with the blood of the
 heifer ... with [whi]ch they atone with the law of the [red heifer] ... in
 water [and he shal be un]clean until the evening. And he who carries
 the cauldron of the water for uncleanness shal be uncl[ean and shal
 wash himself in water and wash (his clothes)]. And [the] man [shal
 sprinkle] the water for uncleanness on those defiled by uncleanness,
 for a pure priest ... on them, fo[r he shal] atone for the unclean. No
 wanton man shal sprinkle on the unclean ... the water for uncleanness
 and he shal bring him to the water and shal purify him from corpse
 uncleanness.... [The pri]est shal scatter on them the water for
 uncleanness to purify [them] ... for they wi l indeed be purified and their
 flesh shal be p[ure] and anyone who touches [him] ... his flux ... and
 [his] h[ands] are not drenched in water. His [b]ed and [his] dweli[ng]
 shal be unclean ... they who touch his flux are like one who has
 touched the uncleanness of one who has touched (a corpse); [he wil
 be unc]lean until the evening. And he who carries his [cl]othes shal
 wash and shal be unclean until the evening.
4Q Harvesting
 (4Q284a)
 Four fragments of a document have survived in a late Hasmonaean—
 early Herodian script (mid-first century BCE). They deal with matters of
 uncleanness affecting fruits. Only fr. 1 is translatable. The phrase
 ‘liquids of the Congregation’ links this fragment to IQS VI, 20, V I, 20.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XXXV, 131-3.
 Fr. 1
 ... bask[et ... And let him no]t gather them ... may not touch the liquids of
 the Congregation, for these [render unclean the] basket and the figs
 [and the pomegranates, if] their ju[ice] oozes out wh[en he squee]zes
 them al and [a man] who has not been brou[ght into the C]ovenant has
 gathered them. And if they press [olives in the olive press], let him not
 polute them in a[ny man]ner by opening them until he pours [them into
 the press].... in purity ...
The Master’s Exhortation to the Sons of Dawn
 (40298)
 Eight fragments of a manuscript which, apart from its title, is written in
 a cryptic alphabet, contain an exhortation to a group, designated as
 ‘sons of dawn’ by the ‘Master’ (maskil), the title of the teacher in
 charge of instruction in the Community (cf. Community Rule). The
 phrase, ‘sons of dawn’ (bene ha-shahar) is possibly attested in the
 Damascus Document X I, 14 (cf. M. Broshi, The Damascus
 Document Reconsidered, Jerusalem, 1992, [35]: ‘No member of the
 Covenant shal have any dealings with the sons of dawn except for
 payment’). The earlier reading was ‘sons of the Pit’ (bene ha-shahat).
 S. Pfann suggests that ‘the sons of dawn’ (not yet ‘sons of light’) are
 newcomers to the sect at the earliest stages of their initiation. The
 exhortation reca ls the opening pages of the Damascus Document.
 The square script of the title is said to belong to the second half of the
 first century BCE. Parts of frs. 1-2 and 3-4 are large enough to be
 translated.
 For the editio princeps, see Stephen Pfann and M. Kister, DJD, XX,
 1-30.
 4Q298, frs. 1-2 i
 [Wor]d of the Master which he spoke to al the sons of Dawn. Liste[n to
 me a]l men of heart (=inteligence) and understand my word. [And
 seeke]rs of righteousness, h[ea]r my word in al that proceeds from
 [my] lips. Those who [k]now have sear[ch]ed [th]ese (matters) and
 [have] returned [to the path] of life ...
Frs- 3-4 i
 ... And now listen, [O wise men], and hear, O you with knowledge, hear.
 And men of understanding, in[crease migh]t, and modesty, you who
 search judgement. [You who] kn[ow the way], increase strength, and
 men of truth, pursu[e righteousness], and you who love kindness,
 increase humility ... appointed time which ... you wi l understand the
 end of the ages and you wil gaze at ancient things to know ...
4Q Men Who Err
 (40306)
 Three smal fragments alude to a group unfaithful to the Covenant (of
 Israel). The a lusion to dogs recals 4QMMT B 58-9.
 For the editio princeps, see T. Lim, DJD, XXXVI, 249-54.
 Fr. 1
 The outcasts (?) who stray and do not practise [the precept], for they
 transgress it [from day] to day, from month to mon[th], al that is (in) the
 Covenant of I[srael].... its flesh and they spit ... and he wi l be angry.
 And the dogs wil eat [the bones (coming) from the Temple]. He shal
 exclude the d[og]s from the (Temple) court ...
Register of Rebukes
 (4Q477)
 Fragments of two columns of a document contain a list of Community
 members rebuked for offences against the rules. This is the only scrol
 fragment which reveals the names of individual members: Yohanan
 son of Ar[ ], Hananiah Notos and Hananiah son of Sim[on]. According
 to the editor, Esther Eshel, the rebukes listed here were read out in
 public by the mebaqqer (or Guardian), hence the title given by her, The
 Rebukes Reported by the Overseer. To be more precise, it is likely
 that the rebukes originated with witnesses of the offence. They
 reported it to the Guardian who was to record the infringement (cf. CD
 IX, 2-4; 16-20). The epithet Notos attached to the name of Hananiah
 probably means ‘Southerner’ in line with a paralel Masada inscription
 (no. 462: Shim’on bar Notos) according to Y. Yadin and J. Naveh,
 Masada I (Jerusalem, 1989), 40. D. Flusser, as quoted by Eshel,
 associates Notos with the Greek nothos (bastard). In col. I, 1. 8, Eshel,
 fo lowing M. Broshi, reads shyr (=sh’r) bsrw (i.e. near kin); R. Eisenman
 and M. Wise have shpk bsrw (emission of his body) and J. M.
 Baumgarten (JJS 45 (1994), 277) swd bsrw (the carnal foundation of
 man).
 Frs. 1, 2 i and 3: the text is too fragmentary for translation. Note the
 significant phrases ‘[to] recal their transgression’, ‘men of the
 [Community?]’, ‘to rebuke’ and [‘c]amps of the Congregation’ and ‘they
 rebuked’.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Eshel, DJD, XXXVI, 474-83.
 Fr. 2
I ... who ... [wh]o acted wickedly ... the Congregation ... Yohanan son of
 Ar ... [they rebuked because] he was short-tempered ... with him ... the
 iniquity with him and also the spirit of pride was with [him] ... vacat
 They rebuked Hananiah Notos because he ... [to dis]turb the spirit of
 the Communi[ty ... and] also to mingle the ... they rebu[k]ed because
 evil ... was with him and also because he was not ... and also because
 he loved his bodily nature (or: showed preference to his near kin) ...
 [blank] And [they rebuked] Hananiah son of Sim[on] [because he] ...
 and he also loves the goodness ...
Remonstrances (before Conversion?)
 (4Q471a)
 This smal fragment, written in Herodian script, contains reproofs
 addressed in the second person plural to a group of wicked Jews. The
 context is that of a war. It is unlikely to belong to the War Scrol or the
 Book of War as neither of these includes speeches to outsiders.
 According to a conjecture proposed by the editors, the opponents of
 the sect thus criticized are the ruling class of Judaea (Hasmonaeans
 and perhaps also Sadducees), but nothing in the surviving text
 positively supports their cautiously presented surmise. However, the
 second half of the fragment can be interpreted in a positive sense, in
 which case the scene may be a last-minute mass conversion of
 unfaithful Jews before the final battle.
 For the editio princeps, see Esther Eshel and Menahem Kister,
 DJD, XXXVI, 446-9.
 ... time(?) you have commanded not to ... You have been unfaithful to
 His covenant ... [You] said: Let us fight His wars for He has redeemed
 us ... Your [mighty men] shal be humbled. And they did not know that
 He has despised ... you shal show yourselves mighty in war. And you
 have been reckoned ... by His measuring line(?). You shal seek
 righteous judgement and the work ... you shal exalt yourselves. And He
 has chosen t[hem] ... for a cry ... And you wi l return ... sweet
B. Hymns and Poems
 ‘Thanksgiving Scro l’, 
The Shrine of the Book, 
Israel Museum, Jerusalem
The Thanksgiving Hymns
 (IQH, IQ36, 4Q427-32)
 The Hymns Scrol was published by E. L. Sukenik in 1954-5 (The
 Dead Sea Scrols of the Hebrew University, Jerusalem). It has
 suffered a good deal of deterioration and the translator has difficulty,
 not only in making sense of the poems, but also in determining where
 one ends and another begins. For a method of restoration of the
 Hymns, see E. Puech, ‘Quelques aspects de la restauration du
 Rouleau des Hymnes’, JJS 39 (1988), 38-55. He has convincingly
 argued that apart from some fragments, the first three columns of the
 original Hymns Scrol are lost. The missing beginning should be
 fo lowed by the existing columns in the folowing order: XVI (sheet 1),
 X I-XVI (sheet 2), I-IV (sheet 3), V-V I (sheet 4) and IX-X I of the editio
 princeps. Four further columns (XXI-XXIV) may be reconstructed with
 the help of the former col. XV I and various fragments published by
 Sukenik. Puech tentatively suggests also two further columns (XXV
XXVI) made up from other fragments.
 Our presentation of the Hymns is now rearranged according to
 Puech’s thesis and his reconstruction of the poem in col. VI (formerly
 XIV) is also adopted (cf. art. cit., 53-4). No translation is offered for the
 extremely fragmentary cols. XXIV-XXVI, though it should be noted that
 col. xxv includes the beginning of a new poem, ‘For the Master. A
 s[ong (?)]’ from IQH, fr. 8. Further fragments, occasionaly used to
 improve the reading of IQH, may be found at IQ35 (cf. also IQ36 and
 37-40; see DJD, I, 136-43) and 4Q427-32; for the latter, see Eileen
 Schuler, DJD, XXIX, 69-232.
 The poems contained in the Scrol are similar to the biblical Psalms.
 They are mostly hymns of thanksgiving, individual prayers as opposed
 to those intended for communal worship, expressing a rich variety of
 spiritual and doctrinal detail. But the two fundamental themes running
through the whole colection are those of salvation and knowledge. The
 sectary thanks God continualy for having been saved from the ‘lot’ of
 the wicked, and for his gift of insight into the divine mysteries. He, a
 ‘creature of clay’, has been singled out by his Maker to receive favours
 of which he feels himself unworthy and he aludes again and again to
 his frailty and total dependence on God. Whereas some of the Hymns
 give expression to thoughts and sentiments common to al the
 members of the sect, others, particularly nos. 1, 2, and 7-11, appear to
 refer to the experiences of a teacher abandoned by his friends and
 persecuted by his enemies. Several scholars tend to ascribe the
 authorship of these to the Teacher of Righteousness, and even
 consider that he may be responsible for al the Hymns. But although
 this hypothesis is not impossible, no sure conclusion can yet be
 reached. Nor are we in a position to date any particular composition.
 The most we can say is that the colection as such probably attained its
 final shape during the last pre-Christian century.
 Philo’s account of the banquet celebrated by the contemplative
 Essenes, or Therapeutae, on the Feast of Pentecost may indicate the
 use to which the Hymns were put. He reports that when the President
 of the meeting had ended his commentary on the Scriptures, he rose
 and chanted a hymn, either one of his own making or an old one, and
 after him each of his brethren did likewise (The Contemplative Life, §
 80). Similarly, it is probable that the psalms of this Scrol were recited
 by the Guardian and newly initiated members at the Feast of the
 Renewal of the Covenant. Hymn 4 (formerly 21) expressly refers to the
 oath of the Covenant, and Hymn 5 (formerly 22) appears to be a poetic
 commentary on the liturgy marking the entry into the Community.
 Indeed, the relative poverty of principal themes may be due to the fact
 that al this poetry was intended for a special occasion and its
 inspirational scope was thereby limited.
 Cols. I- I are missing.
 IV (formerly XV I) ...
Hymn I (formerly 23)
 As Thou hast said by the hand of Moses, 
Thou forgivest transgression, iniquity, and sin, 
and pardonest rebelion and unfaithfulness.
 For the bases of the mountains shal melt 
and fire shal consume the deep places of Hel, 
but Thou wilt deliver 
al those that are corrected by Thy judgements, 
that they may serve Thee faithfuly 
and that their seed may be before Thee for ever. 
Thou wilt keep Thine oath 
and wilt pardon their transgression; 
Thou wilt cast away al their sins.
 Thou wilt cause them to inherit al the glory of Adam 
and abundance of days.
 Hymn 2 (formerly 24)
 [I give Thee thanks] 
because of the spirits which Thou hast given to me! 
I [wi l bring forth] a reply of the tongue 
to recount Thy righteous deeds, 
and the forbearance ... 
and the works of Thy mighty right hand, 
and [the pardon] of the sins of the forefathers. 
[I wi l bow down] and implore Thy mercy 
[on my sins and wicked] deeds, 
and on the perversity of [my heart], 
for I have walowed in uncleanness, 
and have [turned aside] from the counsel [of Thy truth] 
and I have not laboured ... 
[For] Thine, Thine is righteousness, 
and an everlasting blessing be upon Thy Name! 
[According to] Thy righteousness, 
let [Thy servant] be redeemed 
[and] the wicked be brought to an end.
 For I have understood that [it is Thou 
who dost establish] the path of whomsoever Thou choosest; 
Thou dost hedge him in with [true] discernment 
that he may not sin against Thee, 
and that his humility [may bear fruit] 
through Thy chastisement. 
[Thou dost purify] his heart in [Thy trials]. 
[Preserve] Thy servant, [O God], lest he sin against Thee, 
or stagger aside from any word of Thy wil. 
Strengthen the [loins of Thy servant 
that he may] resist the spirits [of falsehood, 
that] he may walk in al that Thou lovest, 
and despise al that Thou loathest,
 [that he may do] that which is good in Thine eyes. 
[Destroy] their [dominion] in my bowels, 
for [within] Thy servant is a spirit of [flesh].
 Hymn 3 (formerly 25)
 [I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for] Thou didst shed [Thy] Holy Spirit upon Thy Servant 
V (formerly X I) 
Al these things [Thou didst establish in Thy wisdom. 
Thou didst appoint] al Thy works 
before ever creating them: 
the host of Thy spirits 
and the Congregation [of Thy Holy Ones, 
the heavens and al] their hosts 
and the earth and al it brings forth. 
In the seas and deeps ... 
... and an everlasting task; 
for Thou hast established them from before eternity.
 And the work of ... 
and they shal recount Thy glory 
throughout a l Thy dominion 
For Thou hast shown them that 
which they had not [seen 
by removing al] ancient things 
and creating new ones, 
by breaking asunder things anciently established, 
and raising up the things of eternity. 
For [Thou art from the beginning] 
and shalt endure for ages without end. 
And Thou hast [appointed] al these things 
in the mysteries of Thy wisdom 
to make known Thy glory [to al].
 [But what is] the spirit of flesh 
that it should understand al this, 
and that it should comprehend
 the great [design of Thy wisdom]? 
What is he that is born of woman 
in the midst of al Thy terrible [works]? 
He is but an edifice of dust, 
and a thing kneaded with water, 
whose beginning [is sinful iniquity], 
and shameful nakedness, 
[and a fount of uncleanness], 
and over whom a spirit of straying rules. 
If he is wicked he shal become [a sign for] ever, 
and a wonder to (every) generation, 
[and an object of horror to al] flesh.
 By Thy goodness alone is man righteous, 
and with Thy many mercies [Thou strengthenest him]. 
Thou wilt adorn him with Thy splendour 
and wilt [cause him to reign amid] many delights 
with everlasting peace and length of days. 
[For Thou hast spoken], 
and Thou wilt not take back Thy word.
 And I, Thy servant, 
I know by the spirit which Thou hast given to me 
[that Thy words are truth], 
and that al Thy works are righteousness, 
and that Thou wilt not take back Thy word 
VI (formerly XIV)
 Hymn 4 (formerly 21)
 [Blessed art Thou,] O Lord 
who hast given understanding 
to the heart of [Thy] servant 
that he may understand al these things 
and resist [the works] of wickedness 
and bless justly al those who choose Thy wi l, 
[and that he may love al] that Thou lovest 
and loathe al that Thou [hatest]. 
Thou shalt instruct Thy servant 
... [spi]rits of man 
for Thou hast cast their (lot) according to the spirits 
between good and evil 
to accomplish their task. 
And I know through the understanding 
which comes from Thee, 
that in Thy goodwi l towards m[a]n 
[Thou hast] increa[sed his inheritance] in Thy Holy Spirit 
and thus Thou hast drawn me near to understanding of Thee. 
And the closer I approach, 
the more am I filed with zeal 
against al the workers of iniquity 
and the men of deceit.
 For none of those who approach Thee 
rebels against Thy command, 
nor do any of those who know Thee 
alter Thy words; 
for Thou art righteous, 
and al Thine elect are truth. 
Thou wilt blot out al injustice and wickedness for ever, 
and Thy righteousness shal be revealed 
before the eyes of al Thy creatures.
 I know through Thy great goodness; 
and with an oath I have undertaken 
never to sin against Thee, 
nor to do anything evil in Thine eyes. 
And thus do I bring into community 
al the men of my Council.
 I wi l cause each man to draw near 
in accordance with his understanding, 
and according to the greatness of his inheritance, 
so wil I love him. 
I wi l not honour an evil man, 
nor consider [the bribes of shame]; 
I wi l [not] barter Thy truth for riches, 
nor one of Thy precepts for bribes.
 But [I wi l lo]ve [each ma]n 
according to his sp[eech](?) 
and according as Thou removest him far from Thee, 
so wil I hate him; 
and none of those who have turned [from] Thy [Co]venant 
wi l I bring into the Council [of Thy] t[ruth].
Hymn 5 (formerly 22)
 [I thank] Thee, O Lord, 
as befits the greatness of Thy power 
and the multitude of Thy marvels for ever and ever. 
[Thou art a merciful God] and rich in [favours], 
pardoning those who repent of their sin 
and visiting the iniquity of the wicked. 
[Thou delightest in] the free-wi l offering [of the righteous] 
but iniquity Thou hatest always. 
Thou hast favoured me, Thy servant, 
with a spirit of knowledge, 
[that I may choose] truth [and goodness] 
and loathe al the ways of iniquity. 
And I have loved Thee freely 
and with al my heart; 
[contemplating the mysteries of] Thy wisdom 
[I have sought Thee]. 
For this is from Thy hand 
and [nothing is done] without [Thy wi l]. 
VI (formerly XV) 
I have loved Thee freely 
and with al my heart and soul 
I have purified... 
[that I might not] turn aside from any of Thy commands. 
I have clung to the Congregation... 
that I might not be separated from any of Thy laws.
 I know through the understanding which comes from Thee 
that righteousness is not in a hand of flesh, 
[that] man [is not master of] his way 
and that it is not in mortals to direct their step. 
I know that the inclination of every spirit 
[is in Thy hand]; 
Thou didst establish [a l] its [ways] before ever creating it, 
and how can any man change Thy words? 
Thou alone didst [create] the just 
and establish him from the womb 
for the time of goodwi l, 
that he might hearken to Thy Covenant 
and walk in al (Thy ways), 
and that [Thou mightest show Thyself great] to him 
in the multitude of Thy mercies, 
and enlarge his straitened soul to eternal salvation, 
to perpetual and unfailing peace. 
Thou wilt raise up his glory 
from among flesh.
 But the wicked Thou didst create 
for [the time] of Thy [wrath], 
Thou didst vow them from the womb 
to the Day of Massacre, 
for they walk in the way which is not good. 
They have despised [Thy Covenant] 
and their souls have loathed Thy [truth]; 
they have taken no delight in al Thy commandments 
and have chosen that which Thou hatest.
 [For according to the mysteries] of Thy [wisdom], 
Thou hast ordained them for great chastisements 
before the eyes of al Thy creatures, 
that [for a l] eternity 
they may serve as a sign [and a wonder], 
and that [al men] may know Thy glory 
and Thy tremendous power.
 But what is flesh 
that it should understand [these things]? 
And how should [a creature of] dust direct his steps? 
It is Thou who didst shape the spirit 
and establish its work [from the beginning]; 
the way of al the living proceeds from Thee. 
I know that no riches equal Thy truth, 
and [have therefore desired 
to enter the Council of] Thy holiness. 
I know that Thou hast chosen them before al others 
and that they shal serve Thee for ever. 
Thou wilt [take no bribe for the deeds of iniquity], 
nor ransom for the works of wickedness; 
for Thou art a God of truth 
and [wilt destroy] a l iniquity [for ever, 
and] no [wickedness] shal exist before Thee. 
V I (formerly XVI) 
Because I know al these things 
my tongue shal utter a reply. 
Bowing down and [confessing al] my transgressions, 
I wi l seek [Thy] spirit [of knowledge]; 
cleaving to Thy spirit of [holiness], 
I wi l hold fast to the truth of Thy Covenant, 
that [I may serve] Thee in truth and wholeness of heart, 
and that I may love [Thy Name].
 Blessed art Thou, O Lord, 
Maker [of al things and mighty in] deeds: 
al things are Thy work! 
Behold, Thou art pleased to favour [Thy servant], 
and hast graced me with Thy spirit of mercy 
and [with the radiance] of Thy glory. 
Thine, Thine is righteousness, 
for it is Thou who hast done al [these things]!
 I know that Thou hast marked the spirit of the just, 
and therefore I have chosen to keep my hands clean 
in accordance with [Thy] wi l: 
the soul of Thy servant [has loathed] 
every work of iniquity. 
And I know that man is not righteous
except through Thee, 
and therefore I implore Thee 
by the spirit which Thou hast given [me] 
to perfect Thy [favours] to Thy servant [for ever], 
purifying me by Thy Holy Spirit, 
and drawing me near to Thee by Thy grace 
according to the abundance of Thy mercies 
[Grant me] the place [of Thy loving-kindness] 
which [Thou hast] chosen for them that love Thee 
and keep [Thy commandments, 
that they may stand] in Thy presence [for] ever. 
Let no scourge [come] near him 
lest he stagger aside from the laws of Thy Covenant. 
I [know, O Lord, 
that Thou art merciful] and compassionate, 
[long]-suffering and [rich] in grace and truth, 
pardoning transgression [and sin]. 
Thou repentest of [evil against them that love Thee] 
and keep [Thy] commandments, 
[that] return to Thee with faith 
and wholeness of heart 
... to serve Thee 
[and to do that which is] good in Thine eyes. 
Reject not the face of Thy servant
 Hymn 6 (formerly I)
 IX (formerly I) 
Thou art long-suffering in Thy judgements 
and righteous in al Thy deeds.
 By Thy wisdom [al things exist from] eternity, 
and before creating them Thou knewest their works 
for ever and ever. 
[Nothing] is done [without Thee] 
and nothing is known unless Thou desire it.
Thou hast created al the spirits 
[and hast established a statute] and law 
for a l their works. 
Thou hast spread the heavens for Thy glory 
and hast [appointed] al [their hosts] 
according to Thy wi l; 
the mighty winds according to their laws 
before they became angels [of holiness] 
... and eternal spirits in their dominions; 
the heavenly lights to their mysteries, 
the stars to their paths, 
[the clouds] to their tasks, 
the thunderbolts and lightnings to their duty, 
and the perfect treasuries (of snow and hail) 
to their purposes, 
... to their mysteries.
 Thou hast created the earth by Thy power 
and the seas and deeps [by Thy might]. 
Thou hast fashioned [al] their [inhabi]tants 
according to Thy wisdom, 
and hast appointed al that is in them 
according to Thy wi l.
 [And] to the spirit of man 
which Thou hast formed in the world, 
[Thou hast given dominion over the works of Thy hands] 
for everlasting days and unending generations. 
... in their ages 
Thou hast alotted to them tasks 
during al their generations, 
and judgement in their appointed seasons 
according to the rule [of the two spirits. 
For Thou hast established their ways] 
for ever and ever, 
[and hast ordained from eternity] 
their visitation for reward and chastisements; 
Thou hast alotted it to al their seed 
for eternal generations and everlasting years... 
In the wisdom of Thy knowledge
 Thou didst establish their destiny before ever they were. 
Al things [exist] according to [Thy wi l] 
and without Thee nothing is done.
 These things I know 
by the wisdom which comes from Thee, 
for Thou hast unstopped my ears 
to marvelous mysteries.
 And yet I, a shape of clay 
kneaded in water, 
a ground of shame 
and a source of polution, 
a melting-pot of wickedness 
and an edifice of sin, 
a straying and perverted spirit 
of no understanding, 
fearful of righteous judgements, 
what can I say that is not foreknown, 
and what can I utter that is not foretold? 
Al things are graven before Thee 
on a written Reminder 
for everlasting ages, 
and for the numbered cycles 
of the eternal years 
in al their seasons; 
they are not hidden or absent from Thee.
 What shal a man say 
concerning his sin? 
And how shal he plead 
concerning his iniquities? 
And how shal he reply 
to righteous judgement? 
For Thine, O God of knowledge, 
are al righteous deeds 
and the counsel of truth; 
but to the sons of men is the work of iniquity 
and deeds of deceit.
 It is Thou who hast created breath for the tongue 
and Thou knowest its words; 
Thou didst establish the fruit of the lips 
before ever they were. 
Thou dost set words to measure 
and the flow of breath from the lips to metre. 
Thou bringest forth sounds 
according to their mysteries, 
and the flow of breath from the lips 
according to its reckoning, 
that they may tel of Thy glory 
and recount Thy wonders 
in al Thy works of truth 
and [in al Thy] righteous [judgements]; 
and that Thy Name be praised 
by the mouth of al men, 
and that they may know Thee 
according to their understanding 
and bless Thee for ever.
 By Thy mercies and by Thy great goodness, 
Thou hast strengthened the spirit of man 
in the face of the scourge, 
and hast purified [the erring spirit] 
of a multitude of sins, 
that it may declare Thy marvels 
in the presence of al Thy creatures. 
[I wi l declare to the assembly of the simple] 
the judgements by which I was scourged, 
and to the sons of men, al Thy wonders 
by which Thou hast shown Thyself mighty [in me 
in the presence of the sons of Adam].
 Hear, O you wise men, and meditate on knowledge; 
O you fearful, be steadfast! 
Increase in prudence, [O al you simple]; 
O just men, put away iniquity! 
Hold fast [to the Covenant], 
O al you perfect of way; 
[O al you afflicted with] misery, 
be patient and despise no righteous judgement!
 [but the foo]lish of heart 
shal not comprehend these things 
X (formerly I) 
Upon my [uncircumcised] lips 
Thou hast laid a reply. 
Thou hast upheld my soul, 
strengthening my loins and restoring my power; 
my foot has stood in the realm of ungodliness. 
I have been a snare to those who rebel, 
but healing to those of them who repent, 
prudence to the simple, 
and steadfastness to the fearful of heart. 
To traitors Thou hast made of me 
a mockery and scorn, 
but a counsel of truth and understanding 
to the upright of way. 
I have been iniquity for the wicked, 
i l-repute on the lips of the fierce, 
the scoffers have gnashed their teeth. 
I have been a byword to traitors, 
the assembly of the wicked has raged against me; 
they have roared like turbulent seas 
and their towering waves have spat out mud and slime. 
But to the elect of righteousness 
Thou hast made me a banner, 
and a discerning interpreter of wonderful mysteries, 
to try [those who practise] truth 
and to test those who love correction. 
To the interpreters of error I have been an opponent, 
[but a man of peace] to al those who see true things. 
To al those who seek smooth things 
I have been a spirit of zeal; 
like the sound of the roaring of many waters 
so have [al] the deceivers thundered against me; 
[a l] their thoughts were devilish [schemings].
 They have cast towards the Pit the life of the man 
whose mouth Thou hast confirmed, 
and into whose heart 
Thou hast put teaching and understanding, 
that he might open a fountain of knowledge 
to al men of insight. 
They have exchanged them for lips of uncircumcision, 
and for the foreign tongue 
of a people without understanding, 
that they might come to ruin in their straying.
 Hymn 7 (formerly 2)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast placed my soul 
in the bundle of the living, 
and hast hedged me about 
against al the snares of the Pit.
 Violent men have sought after my life 
because I have clung to Thy Covenant. 
For they, an assembly of deceit, 
and a horde of Belial, 
know not that my stand 
is maintained by Thee, 
and that in Thy mercy Thou wilt save my soul 
since my steps proceed from Thee. 
From Thee it is 
that they assail my life, 
that Thou mayest be glorified 
by the judgement of the wicked, 
and manifest Thy might through me 
in the presence of the sons of men; 
for it is by Thy mercy that I stand.
 And I said, Mighty men 
have pitched their camps against me, 
and have encompassed me 
with al their weapons of war. 
They have let fly arrows
 against which there is no cure, 
and the flame of (their) javelins 
is like a consuming fire among trees. 
The clamour of their shouting 
is like the belowing of many waters, 
like a storm of destruction 
devouring a multitude of men; 
as their waves rear up, 
Naught and Vanity spout upward to the stars. 
But although my heart melted like water, 
my soul held fast to Thy Covenant, 
and the net which they spread for me 
has taken their own foot; 
they have themselves falen 
into the snares which they laid for my life. 
But my foot remains upon level ground; 
apart from their assembly I wi l bless Thy Name.
 Hymn 8 (formerly 3)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast [fastened] Thine eye upon me. 
Thou hast saved me from the zeal 
of lying interpreters, 
and from the congregation of those 
who seek smooth things. 
Thou hast redeemed the soul of the poor one 
whom they planned to destroy 
by spi ling his blood because he served Thee.
 Because [they knew not] 
that my steps were directed by Thee, 
they made me an object of shame and derision 
in the mouth of al the seekers of falsehood. 
But Thou, O my God, hast succoured 
the soul of the poor and the needy 
against one stronger than he; 
Thou hast redeemed my soul 
from the hand of the mighty. 
Thou hast not permitted their insults to dismay me 
so that I forsook Thy service 
for fear of the wickedness of the [ungodly], 
or bartered my steadfast heart for foly
 Hymn 9(formerly 4)
 XI (formerly I) 
They caused [me] to be 
like a ship on the deeps of the [sea], 
and like a fortified city 
before [the aggressor], 
[and] like a woman in travail 
with her first-born child, 
upon whose bely pangs have come 
and grievous pains, 
fi ling with anguish her child-bearing crucible.
 For the children have come to the throes of Death, 
and she labours in her pains who bears a man. 
For amid the throes of Death 
she shal bring forth a man-child, 
and amid the pains of Hel 
there shal spring from her child-bearing crucible 
a Marvelous Mighty Counselor; 
and a man shal be delivered from out of the throes.
 When he is conceived 
al wombs shal quicken, 
and the time of their delivery 
shal be in grievous pains; 
they shal be appaled 
who are with child. 
And when he is brought forth 
every pang shal come upon the child-bearing crucible.
 And they, the conceivers of Vanity, 
shal be prey to terrible anguish; 
the wombs of the Pit 
shal be prey to al the works of horror.
 The foundations of the wal shal rock 
like a ship upon the face of the waters; 
the heavens shal roar 
with a noise of roaring, 
and those who dwel in the dust, 
as wel as those who sail the seas, 
shal be appaled by the roaring of the waters.
Al their wise men 
shal be like sailors on the deeps, 
for a l their wisdom shal be swalowed up 
in the midst of the howling seas. 
As the Abysses boil 
above the fountains of the waters, 
the towering waves and bi lows shal rage 
with the voice of their roaring; 
and as they rage, 
[Hel and Abaddon] shal open 
[and al] the flying arrows of the Pit 
shal send out their voice to the Abyss.
 And the gates [of Hel] shal open 
[on al] the works of Vanity; 
and the doors of the Pit shal close 
on the conceivers of wickedness; 
and the everlasting bars shal be bolted 
on al the spirits of Naught.
 Hymn 10 (formerly 5)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast redeemed my soul from the Pit, 
and from the hel of Abaddon 
Thou hast raised me up to everlasting height.
 I walk on limitless level ground, 
and I know there is hope for him 
whom Thou hast shaped from dust 
for the everlasting Council. 
Thou hast cleansed a perverse spirit of great sin 
that it may stand with the host of the Holy Ones, 
and that it may enter into community 
with the congregation of the Sons of Heaven. 
Thou hast alotted to man an everlasting destiny 
amidst the spirits of knowledge, 
that he may praise Thy Name in a common rejoicing 
and recount Thy marvels before al Thy works.
 And yet I, a creature of clay, 
what am I? 
Kneaded with water, 
what is my worth and my might? 
For I have stood in the realm of wickedness 
and my lot was with the damned; 
the soul of the poor one was carried away 
in the midst of great tribulation. 
Miseries of torment dogged my steps 
while al the snares of the Pit were opened 
and the lures of wickedness were set up 
and the nets of the damned (were spread) on the waters; 
while al the arrows of the Pit 
flew out without cease, 
and, striking, left no hope; 
while the rope beat down in judgement 
and a destiny of wrath (fel) upon the abandoned 
and a venting of fury upon the cunning. 
It was a time of the wrath of al Belial 
and the bonds of death tightened without any escape.
 The torrents of Belial sha l reach 
to al sides of the world. 
In al their channels 
a consuming fire shal destroy 
every tree, green and barren, on their banks; 
unto the end of their courses 
it sha l scourge with flames of fire, 
and shal consume the foundations of the earth 
and the expanse of dry land. 
The bases of the mountains shal blaze 
and the roots of the rocks shal turn 
to torrents of pitch; 
it sha l devour as far as the great Abyss.
 The torrents of Belial sha l break into Abaddon, 
and the deeps of the Abyss shal groan 
amid the roar of heaving mud. 
The land shal cry out because of the calamity 
fa len upon the world, 
and al its deeps shal howl. 
And al those upon it shal rave 
and shal perish amid the great misfortune. 
For God shal sound His mighty voice, 
and His holy abode shal thunder 
with the truth of His glory. 
The heavenly hosts shal cry out 
and the world’s foundations 
shal stagger and sway. 
The war of the heavenly warriors shal scourge the earth; 
and it shal not end before the appointed destruction 
which shal be for ever and without compare.
 Hymn 11 (formerly 6)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou art as a fortified wal to me, 
and as an iron bar against al destroyers 
Thou hast set my feet upon rock... 
that I may walk in the way of eternity 
and in the paths which Thou hast chosen 
XI (formerly IV)
 Hymn 12 (formerly 7)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast i lumined my face by Thy Covenant, 
I seek Thee, 
and sure as the dawn 
Thou appearest as [perfect Light] to me. 
Teachers of lies [have smoothed] Thy people [with words], 
and [false prophets] have led them astray; 
they perish without understanding 
for their works are in foly. 
For I am despised by them 
and they have no esteem for me 
that Thou mayest manifest Thy might through me. 
They have banished me from my land like a bird from its nest; 
al my friends and brethren are driven far from me 
and hold me for a broken vessel.
 And they, teachers of lies and seers of falsehood, 
have schemed against me a devilish scheme, 
to exchange the Law engraved on my heart by Thee 
for the smooth things (which they speak) to Thy people. 
And they withhold from the thirsty the drink of Knowledge, 
and assuage their thirst with vinegar, 
that they may gaze on their straying, 
on their fo ly concerning their feast-days, 
on their fa l into their snares.
 But Thou, O God, 
dost despise al Belial’s designs; 
it is Thy purpose that shal be done 
and the design of Thy heart 
that sha l be established for ever.
 As for them, they dissemble, 
they plan devilish schemes. 
They seek Thee with a double heart 
and are not confirmed in Thy truth 
A root bearing poisoned and bitter fruit 
is in their designs; 
they walk in stubbornness of heart 
and seek Thee among idols, 
and they set before themselves 
the stumbling-block of their sin.
 They come to inquire of Thee 
from the mouth of lying prophets deceived by error 
who speak [with strange] lips to Thy people, 
and an alien tongue, 
that they may cunningly turn 
al their works to foly.
 For [they hearken] not [to] Thy [voice], 
nor do they give ear to Thy word; 
of the vision of knowledge they say, ‘It is unsure’, 
and of the way of Thy heart, ‘It is not (the way)’. 
But Thou, O God, wilt reply to them, 
chastising them in Thy might 
because of their idols 
and because of the multitude of their sins, 
that they who have turned aside from Thy Covenant 
may be caught in their own designs. 
Thou wilt destroy in Judgement 
al men of lies, 
and there shal be no more seers of error; 
for in Thy works is no foly, 
no guile in the design of Thy heart. 
But those who please Thee 
shal stand before Thee for ever; 
those who walk in the way of Thy heart 
shal be established for evermore.
 Clinging to Thee, I wi l stand. 
I wi l rise against those who despise me 
and my hand shal be turned 
against those who deride me; 
for they have no esteem for me 
[that Thou mayest] manifest Thy might through me. 
Thou hast revealed Thyself to me in Thy power 
as perfect Light, 
and Thou hast not covered my face with shame. 
Al those who are gathered in Thy Covenant 
inquire of me, 
and they hearken to me who walk in the way of Thy heart, 
who array themselves for Thee 
in the Council of the holy.
 Thou wilt cause their law to endure for ever 
and truth to go forward unhindered, 
and Thou wilt not alow them to be led astray 
by the hand of the damned 
when they plot against them. 
Thou wilt put the fear of them into Thy people 
and (wilt make of them) a hammer 
to al the peoples of the lands, 
that at the Judgement they may cut off 
al those who transgress Thy word.
 Through me Thou hast ilumined 
the face of the Congregation 
and hast shown Thine infinite power. 
For Thou hast given me knowledge 
through Thy marvelous mysteries, 
and hast shown Thyself mighty within me 
in the midst of Thy marvelous Council. 
Thou hast done wonders before the Congregation 
for the sake of Thy glory, 
that they may make known Thy mighty deeds to al the living.
 But what is flesh (to be worthy) of this? 
What is a creature of clay 
for such great marvels to be done, 
whereas he is in iniquity from the womb 
and in guilty unfaithfulness until his old age? 
Righteousness, I know, is not of man, 
nor is perfection of way of the son of man: 
to the Most High God belong al righteous deeds. 
The way of man is not established 
except by the spirit which God created for him 
to make perfect a way for the children of men, 
that a l His creatures may know 
the might of His power, 
and the abundance of His mercies 
towards al the sons of His grace.
 As for me, shaking and trembling seize me 
and al my bones are broken; 
my heart dissolves like wax before fire 
and my knees are like water 
pouring down a steep place. 
For I remember my sins 
and the unfaithfulness of my fathers. 
When the wicked rose against Thy Covenant 
and the damned against Thy word, 
I said in my sinfulness, 
‘I am forsaken by Thy Covenant.’ 
But caling to mind the might of Thy hand 
and the greatness of Thy compassion, 
I rose and stood, 
and my spirit was established 
in face of the scourge.
 I lean on Thy grace 
and on the multitude of Thy mercies, 
for Thou wilt pardon iniquity, 
and through Thy righteousness 
[Thou wilt purify man] of his sin. 
Not for his sake wilt Thou do it, 
[but for the sake of Thy glory]. 
For Thou hast created the just and the wicked 
X I (formerly V)
 Hymn 13 (formerly 8)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast not abandoned me 
whilst I sojourned among a people [burdened with sin].
 [Thou hast not] judged me 
according to my guilt, 
nor hast Thou abandoned me 
because of the designs of my inclination; 
but Thou hast saved my life from the Pit. 
Thou hast brought [Thy servant deliverance] 
in the midst of lions destined for the guilty, 
and of lionesses which crush the bones of the mighty 
and drink the blood of the brave.
 Thou hast caused me to dwel with the many fishers 
who spread a net upon the face of the waters, 
and with the hunters of the children of iniquity; 
Thou hast established me there for justice. 
Thou hast confirmed the counsel of truth in my heart 
and the waters of the Covenant for those who seek it. 
Thou hast closed up the mouth of the young lions 
whose teeth are like a sword, 
and whose great teeth are like a pointed spear, 
like the venom of dragons. 
Al their design is for robbery 
and they have lain in wait; 
but they have not opened their mouth against me.
 For Thou, O God, hast sheltered me 
from the children of men, 
and hast hidden Thy Law [within me] 
against the time when Thou shouldst reveal 
Thy salvation to me. 
For Thou hast not forsaken me 
in my soul’s distress, 
and Thou hast heard my cry 
in the bitterness of my soul; 
and when I groaned, 
Thou didst consider my sorrowful complaint. 
Thou hast preserved the soul of the poor one 
in the den of lions 
which sharpened their tongue like a sword. 
Thou hast closed up their teeth, O God, 
lest they rend the soul of the poor and needy. 
Thou hast made their tongue go back 
like a sword to its scabbard 
[lest] the soul of Thy servant [be blotted out].
 Thou hast dealt wondrously with the poor one 
to manifest Thy might within me 
in the presence of the sons of men.
 Thou hast placed him in the melting-pot, 
[like gold] in the fire, 
and like silver refined 
in the melting-pot of the smelters, 
to be purified seven times. 
The wicked and fierce have stormed against me 
with their afflictions; 
they have pounded my soul al day. 
But Thou, O my God, 
hast changed the tempest to a breeze; 
Thou hast delivered the soul of the poor one 
like [a bird from the net 
and like] prey from the mouth of lions.
Hymn 14 (formerly 9)
 I thank Thee (corrected: Blessed art Thou) O Lord, 
for Thou hast not abandoned the fatherless 
or despised the poor. 
For Thy might [is boundless] 
and Thy glory beyond measure 
and wonderful Heroes minister to Thee; 
yet [hast Thou done marvels] among the humble 
in the mire underfoot, 
and among those eager for righteousness, 
causing al the wel-loved poor 
to rise up together from the trampling.
 But I have been [iniquity to] those who contend with me, 
dispute and quarreling to my friends, 
wrath to the members of my Covenant 
and murmuring and protest to al my companions.
 [A l who have ea]ten my bread 
have lifted their heel against me, 
and al those joined to my Council 
have mocked me with wicked lips. 
The members of my [Covenant] have rebeled 
and have murmured round about me; 
they have gone as talebearers
 before the children of mischief 
concerning the mystery which Thou hast hidden in me. 
And to show Thy great[ness] through me, 
and because of their guilt, 
Thou hast hidden the fountain of understanding 
and the counsel of truth.
 They consider but the mischief of their heart; 
[with] devilish [schemings] they unsheathe 
a perfidious tongue 
from which ever springs the poison of dragons. 
And like (serpents) which creep in the dust, 
so do they let fly [their poisonous darts], 
viper’s [venom] against which there is no charm; 
and this has brought incurable pain, 
a malignant scourge 
within the body of Thy servant, 
causing [his spirit] to faint 
and draining his strength 
so that he maintains no firm stand.
 They have overtaken me in a narrow pass without escape 
and there is no [rest for me in my trial]. 
They sound my censure upon a harp 
and their murmuring and storming upon a zither. 
Anguish [seizes me] 
like the pangs of a woman in travail, 
and my heart is troubled within me. 
I am clothed in blackness
 and my tongue cleaves to the roof [of my mouth]; 
[for I fear the mischief of] their heart 
and their inclination (towards evil) 
appears as bitterness before me. 
The light of my face is dimmed to darkness 
and my radiance is turned to decay.
 For Thou, O God, didst widen my heart, 
but they straiten it with affliction 
and hedge me about with darkness. 
I eat the bread of wailing
 and drink unceasing tears; 
truly, my eyes are dimmed by grief, 
and my soul by daily bitterness. 
[Groaning] and sorrow encompass me 
and ignominy covers my face. 
My bread is turned into an adversary 
and my drink into an accuser; 
it has entered into my bones 
causing my spirit to stagger 
and my strength to fail. 
According to the mysteries of sin, 
they change the works of God by their transgression.
 Truly, I am bound with untearable ropes 
and with unbreakable chains. 
A thick wal [fences me in], 
iron bars and gates [of bronze]; 
my [prison] is counted with the Abyss 
as being without [any escape]
 [The torrents of Belial] have encompassed my soul 
[leaving me without deliverance]
 Hymn 14 (formerly 10)
 XIV (formerly VI) 
Thou hast unstopped my ears 
[to the correction] of those who reprove with justice 
[Thou hast saved me] from the congregation of [vanity] 
and from the assembly of violence; 
Thou hast brought me into the Council of... 
[and hast purified me of] sin. 
And I know there is hope 
for those who turn from transgression 
and for those who abandon sin 
and to walk without wickedness 
in the way of Thy heart. 
I am consoled for the roaring of the peoples, 
and for the tumult of k[ing]doms when they assemble; 
[for] in a little while, I know, 
Thou wilt raise up survivors among Thy people 
and a remnant within Thine inheritance. 
Thou wilt purify and cleanse them of their sin 
for a l their deeds are in Thy truth. 
Thou wilt judge them in Thy great loving-kindness 
and in the multitude of Thy mercies 
and in the abundance of Thy pardon, 
teaching them according to Thy word; 
and Thou wilt establish them in Thy Council 
according to the uprightness of Thy truth.
 Thou wilt do these things for Thy glory 
and for Thine own sake, 
to [magnify] the Law and [the truth 
and to enlighten] the members of Thy Council 
in the midst of the sons of men, 
that they may recount Thy marvels 
for everlasting generations 
and [meditate] unceasingly upon Thy mighty deeds. 
Al the nations shal acknowledge Thy truth, 
and al the people Thy glory.
 For Thou wilt bring Thy glorious [salvation] 
to al the men of Thy Council, 
to those who share a common lot 
with the Angels of the Face. 
And among them shal be no mediator to [invoke Thee], 
and no messenger [to make] reply; 
for ... 
They shal reply according to Thy glorious word 
and shal be Thy princes in the company [of the Angels].
 They shal send out a bud [for ever] 
like a flower [of the fields], 
and shal cause a shoot to grow 
into the boughs of an everlasting Plant.
It sha l cover the whole [earth] with its shadow 
[and its crown] (shal reach) to the [clouds]; 
its roots (sha l go down) to the Abyss 
[and al the rivers of Eden shal water its branches].
 A source of light 
shal become an eternal ever-flowing fountain, 
and in its bright flames 
al the [sons of iniquity] sha l be consumed; 
[it sha l be] a fire to devour al sinful men 
in utter destruction.
 They who bore the yoke of my testimony 
have been led astray [by teachers of lies], 
[and have rebeled] against the service of righteousness. 
Whereas Thou, O my God, didst command them 
to mend their ways 
[by walking] in the way of [holiness], 
where no man goes who is uncircumcised 
or unclean or violent, 
they have staggered aside from the way of Thy heart 
and languish in [great] wretchedness. 
A counsel of Belial is in their heart 
[and in accordance with] their wicked design 
they walow in sin.
 [I am] as a sailor in a ship 
amid furious seas; 
their waves and al their bi lows 
roar against me. 
[There is no] calm in the whirlwind 
that I may restore my soul, 
no path that I may straighten my way 
on the face of the waters. 
The deeps resound to my groaning 
and [my soul has journeyed] to the gates of death.
 But I shal be as one who enters a fortified city, 
as one who seeks refuge behind a high wal 
until deliverance (comes);
 I wi l [lean on] Thy truth, O my God. 
For Thou wilt set the foundation on rock 
and the framework by the measuring-cord of justice; 
and the tried stones [Thou wilt lay] 
by the plumb-line [of truth], 
to [build] a mighty [wal] which shal not sway; 
and no man entering there shal stagger.
 For no enemy shal ever invade [it 
since its doors shal be] doors of protection 
through which no man shal pass; 
and its bars shal be firm 
and no man shal break them. 
No rabble shal enter in with their weapons of war 
until a l the [arrows] of the war of wickedness 
have come to an end.
 And then at the time of Judgement 
the Sword of God shal hasten, 
and al the sons of His truth shal awake 
to [overthrow] wickedness; 
al the sons of iniquity shal be no more. 
The Hero shal bend his bow; 
the fortress sha l open on to endless space 
and the everlasting gates shal send out weapons of war. 
They shal be mighty 
from end to end [of the earth 
and there shal be no escape] 
for the guilty of heart [in their battle]; 
they shal be utterly trampled down 
without any [remnant. 
There shal be no] hope 
in the greatness [of their might], 
no refuge for the mighty warriors; 
for [the battle sha l be] to the Most High God 
Hoist a banner, 
O you who lie in the dust! 
O bodies gnawed by worms, 
raise up an ensign for [the destruction of wickedness]!
 [The sinful sha l] be destroyed 
in the battles against the ungodly. 
The scourging flood when it advances 
shal not invade the stronghold 
XV (formerly V I) 
As for me, I am dumb ... 
[my arm] is torn from its shoulder 
and my foot has sunk into the mire. 
My eyes are closed by the spectacle of evil, 
and my ears by the crying of blood. 
My heart is dismayed by the mischievous design, 
for Belial is manifest in their (evil) inclination. 
Al the foundations of my edifice totter 
and my bones are puled out of joint; 
my bowels heave like a ship in a violent tempest 
and my heart is utterly distressed. 
A whirlwind engulfs me 
because of the mischief of their sin.
 Hymn 15 (formerly 11)
 I thank Thee, O Lord, 
for Thou hast upheld me by Thy strength. 
Thou hast shed Thy Holy Spirit upon me 
that I may not stumble.
Thou hast strengthened me 
before the battles of wickedness, 
and during al their disasters 
Thou hast not permitted that fear 
should cause me to desert Thy Covenant. 
Thou hast made me like a strong tower, a high wal, 
and hast established my edifice upon rock; 
eternal foundations 
serve for my ground, 
and al my ramparts are a tried wal 
which shal not sway.
 Thou hast placed me, O my God, 
among the branches of the Council of Holiness; 
Thou hast [established my mouth] in Thy Covenant, 
and my tongue is like that of Thy disciples; 
whereas the spirit of disaster is without a mouth 
and al the sons of iniquity without a reply; 
for the lying lips sha l be dumb. 
For Thou wilt condemn in Judgement 
al those who assail me, 
distinguishing through me 
between the just and the wicked. 
For Thou knowest the whole intent of a creature, 
Thou discernest every reply, 
and Thou hast established my heart 
[on] Thy teaching and truth, 
directing my steps into the paths of righteousness 
that I may walk before Thee 
in the land [of the living], 
into paths of glory and [infinite] peace 
which shal [never] end. 
For Thou knowest the inclination of Thy servant, 
that I have not relied [upon the works of my hands] 
to raise up [my heart], 
nor have I sought refuge 
in my own strength. 
I have no fleshly refuge, 
[and Thy servant has] no righteous deeds 
to deliver him from the [Pit of no] forgiveness. 
But I lean on the [abundance of Thy mercies] 
and hope [for the greatness] of Thy grace, 
that Thou wilt bring [salvation] to flower 
and the branch to growth, 
providing refuge in (Thy) strength 
[and raising up my heart].
 [For in] Thy righteousness 
Thou hast appointed me for Thy Covenant, 
and I have clung to Thy truth 
and [gone forward in Thy ways].
 Thou hast made me a father to the sons of grace, 
and as a foster-father to men of marvel; 
they have opened their mouths like little babes ... 
like a child playing in the lap of its nurse. 
Thou hast lifted my horn above those who insult me, 
and those who attack me 
[sway like the boughs] (of a tree); 
my enemies are like chaff before the wind, 
and my dominion is over the sons [of iniquity, 
For] Thou hast succoured my soul, O my God, 
and hast lifted my horn on high. 
And I shal shine in a seven-fold light 
in [the Council appointed by] Thee for Thy glory; 
for Thou art an everlasting heavenly light to me 
and wilt establish my feet 
[upon level ground for ever].
 Hymn 16 (formerly 12)
 I [thank Thee, O Lord], 
for Thou hast enlightened me through Thy truth. 
In Thy marvelous mysteries, 
and in Thy loving-kindness to a man [of vanity, 
and] in the greatness of Thy mercy to a perverse heart 
Thou hast granted me knowledge.
 Who is like Thee among the gods, O Lord, 
and who is according to Thy truth? 
Who, when he is judged, 
shal be righteous before Thee? 
For no spirit can reply to Thy rebuke 
nor can any withstand Thy wrath.
 Yet Thou bringest al the sons of Thy truth 
in forgiveness before Thee, 
[to cleanse] them of their faults 
through Thy great goodness, 
and to establish them before Thee 
through the multitude of Thy mercies 
for ever and ever.
 For Thou art an eternal God; 
al Thy ways are determined for ever [and ever] 
and there is none other beside Thee. 
And what is a man of Naught and Vanity 
that he should understand Thy marvelous mighty deeds?
 Hymn 17 (formerly 13)
 [I thank] Thee, O God, 
for Thou hast not cast my lot 
in the congregation of Vanity, 
nor hast Thou placed {my decree} (4Q428 7) 
in the council of the cunning. 
[Thou hast] caled me to Thy grace 
and to [Thy] forgiveness Thou hast brought me, 
and, by the multitude of Thy mercies, 
to al judgements of [righteousness. 
As for me, I am an] uncl[ean ma]n, 
and from the womb of her who conceived me 
I am an unclean man, 
and from the womb of her who has conceived me 
I am in sinful guilt, 
[and from the breast of my mother] in injustice, 
and in the bosom [of my nurse] in great impurity. 
And from my youth (I am) in blo[od, 
and until [my old age in the iniquity of the flesh. 
But Thou,] O my God, 
Thou hast established my feet in the way of Thy heart, 
and hast opened] my ears to [Thy wonderful] tidings, 
and my heart to understand Thy truth 
XVI (formerly V I) 
for I have closed my ears to Thy teaching 
until... 
... [without] knowledge 
hast Thou cut out of me, 
and glor[y] ... 
[no] more for me a stumbling-block of iniquity. 
For Thou dost rev[eal Thy salvation], 
and Thy righteousness is made firm for ever. 
For m[an] is not the master of his way, 
f[or] Thou hast done [al this for Thy glory.]
 Hymn 18 (formerly 14)
 I [thank Thee, O Lord, 
for] Thou hast placed me beside a fountain of streams 
in an arid land, 
and close to a spring of waters 
in a dry land, 
and beside a watered garden 
[in a wilderness].
[For Thou didst set] a plantation 
of cypress, pine, and cedar for Thy glory, 
trees of life beside a mysterious fountain 
hidden among the trees by the water, 
and they put out a shoot 
of the everlasting Plant. 
But before they did so, they took root 
and sent out their roots to the watercourse 
that its stem might be open to the living waters 
and be one with the everlasting spring.
 And al [the beasts] of the forest 
fed on its leafy boughs; 
its stem was trodden by al who passed on the way 
and its branches by al the birds. 
And al the [trees] by the water rose above it 
for they grew in their plantation; 
but they sent out no root to the watercourse.
 And the bud of the shoot of holiness 
of the Plant of truth 
was hidden and was not esteemed; 
and being unperceived, 
its mystery was sealed. 
Thou didst hedge in its fruit, [O God], 
with the mystery of mighty Heroes 
and of spirits of holiness 
and of the whirling flame of fire.
 No [man shal approach] the wel-spring of life 
or drink the waters of holiness 
with the everlasting trees, 
or bear fruit with [the Plant] of heaven, 
who seeing has not discerned, 
and considering has not believed 
in the fountain of life, 
who has turned [his hand against] the everlasting [bud].
 And I was despised by tumultuous rivers 
for they cast up their slime upon me.
 But Thou, O my God, hast put into my mouth 
as it were rain for al [those who thirst] 
and a fount of living waters which shal not fail. 
When they are opened they shal not run dry; 
they shal be a torrent [overflowing its banks] 
and like the [bottom]less seas. 
They shal suddenly gush forth 
which were hidden in secret, 
[and shal be like the waters of the Flood 
to every tree], both the green and the barren; 
to every beast and bird [they shal be an abyss. 
The trees shal sink like] lead in the mighty waters, 
fire [sha l burn among them] 
and they shal be dried up; 
but the fruitful Plant 
[by the] everlasting [spring 
shal be] an Eden of glory 
[bearing] fruits [of life].
 By my hand Thou hast opened for them 
a wel-spring and ditches, 
[that a l their channels] may be laid out 
according to a certain measuring-cord, 
and the planting of their trees 
according to the plumb-line of the sun, 
that [their boughs may become 
a beautiful] Branch of glory.
 When I lift my hand to dig its ditches 
its roots sha l run deep into hardest rock 
and its stem ... in the earth; 
in the season of heat it shal keep its strength. 
But if I take away my hand 
it sha l be like a thistle [in the wilderness]; 
its stem shal be like nettles in a salty land, 
and thistles and thorns shal grow from its ditches, 
and brambles and briars. 
Its border [trees] sha l be like the wild grapevine 
whose foliage withers before the heat, 
and its stem shal not be open to [the spring].
 [Behold, I am] carried away with the sick; 
[I am acquainted] with scourges. 
I am forsaken in [my sorrow] ... 
and without any strength. 
For my sore breaks out in bitter pains 
and in incurable sickness impossible to stay; 
[my heart laments] within me 
as in those who go down to Hel. 
My spirit is imprisoned with the dead 
for [my life] has reached the Pit; 
my soul languishes [within me] 
day and night without rest.
 My wound breaks out like burning fire 
shut up in [my bones], 
whose flames devour me for days on end, 
diminishing my strength for times on end 
and destroying my flesh for seasons on end. 
The pains fly out [towards me] 
and my soul within me languishes even to death. 
My strength has gone from my body 
and my heart runs out like water; 
my flesh is dissolved like wax 
and the strength of my loins is turned to fear.
My arm is torn from its socket 
[and I can] lift my hand [no more];
 My [foot] is held by fetters 
and my knees slide like water; 
I can no longer walk. 
I cannot step forward lightly, 
[for my legs and arms] are bound by shackles 
which cause me to stumble. 
The tongue has gone back which Thou didst make 
marvelously mighty within my mouth; 
it can no longer give voice. 
[I have no word] for my disciples 
to revive the spirit of those who stumble 
and to speak words of support to the weary. 
My circumcised lips are dumb. 
XVI (formerly IX) 
[For] the throes of death [encompass me] 
and Hel is upon my bed; 
my couch utters a lamentation 
[and my palet] the sound of a complaint. 
My eyes are like fire in the furnace 
and my tears like rivers of water; 
my eyes grow dim with waiting, 
[for my salvation] is far from me 
and my life is apart from me.
 But behold, 
from desolation to ruin, 
and from the pain to the sore, 
and from the travail to the throes, 
my soul meditates on Thy marvelous works. 
In Thy mercies Thou hast not cast me aside; 
season by season, my soul shal delight 
in the abundance of mercy. 
I wi l reply to him who slanders me 
and I wi l rebuke my oppressor; 
I wi l declare his sentence unjust 
and declare Thy judgement righteous.
 For I know by Thy truth, 
and I choose Thy judgement upon me: 
I delight in my scourges 
for I hope for Thy loving-kindness. 
Thou hast put a supplication 
in the mouth of Thy servant 
and Thou hast not threatened my life 
nor rejected my peace. 
Thou hast not failed my expectation, 
but hast upheld my spirit in face of the scourge.
 For it is Thou who hast founded my spirit 
and Thou knowest my intent; 
in my distress Thou hast comforted me. 
I delight in forgiveness, 
and am consoled for the former transgression; 
for I know there is hope in Thy grace 
and expectation in Thy great power. 
For no man can be just in Thy judgement 
or [righteous in] Thy trial. 
Though one man be more just than another, 
one person [more] wise [than another], 
one mortal more glorious 
than another creature [of clay], 
yet is there no power to compare with Thy might. 
There is no [bound] to Thy glory, 
and to Thy wisdom, no measure; 
[to Thy truth] there is no ... 
and al who forsake it ...
 and my oppressor shal [not] prevail against me. 
I wi l be a stumbling-block to [those who swalow me up, 
and a snare to] al those who battle against me; 
[I wi l be for my enemies a] cause of shame, 
and a cause of disgrace 
to those who murmur against me. 
For Thou, O my God ... 
Thou wilt plead my cause; 
for it is according to the mystery of Thy wisdom 
that Thou hast rebuked me.
 Thou wilt conceal the truth until [its] time, 
[and righteousness] until its appointed moment. 
Thy rebuke shal become my joy and gladness, 
and my scourges shal turn to [eternal] healing 
and everlasting [peace]. 
The scorn of my enemies shal become a crown of glory, 
and my stumbling (shal change) to everlasting might.
 For in Thy ... 
and my light shal shine forth in Thy glory. 
For as a light from out of the darkness, 
so wilt Thou enlighten me. 
[Thou wilt bring healing to] my wound, 
and marvelous might in place of my stumbling, 
and everlasting space to my straitened soul. 
For Thou art my refuge, my high mountain, 
my stout rock and my fortress; 
in Thee wil I shelter 
from al the [designs of ungodliness, 
for Thou wilt succour me] with eternal deliverance.
 For Thou hast known me from (the time of) my father, 
[and hast chosen me] from the womb. 
[From the bely of] my mother 
Thou hast dealt kindly with me, 
and from the breast of her who conceived me 
have Thy mercies been with me. 
[Thy grace was with me] in the lap of her who reared me, 
and from my youth Thou hast ilumined me 
with the wisdom of Thy judgement.
 Thou hast upheld me with certain truth; 
Thou hast delighted me with Thy Holy Spirit 
and [hast opened my heart] ti l this day. 
Thy just rebuke accompanies my [faults] 
and Thy safeguarding peace delivers my soul. 
The abundance of (Thy) forgiveness is with my steps 
and infinite mercy accompanies Thy judgement of me.
 Until I am old Thou wilt care for me; 
for my father knew me not 
and my mother abandoned me to Thee. 
For Thou art a father 
to al [the sons] of Thy truth, 
and as a woman who tenderly loves her babe, 
so dost Thou rejoice in them; 
and as a foster-father bearing a child in his lap 
so carest Thou for al Thy creatures.
 Hymn 19 (formerly 15)
 [I thank Thee, O Lord] 
XV I (formerly X) 
... and nothing exists except by Thy wi l; 
none can consider [Thy deep secrets] 
or contemplate Thy [mysteries].
 What then is man that is earth, 
that is shaped [from clay] and returns to the dust, 
that Thou shouldst give him to understand such marvels 
and make known to him the counsel of [Thy truth]?
 Clay and dust that I am, 
what can I devise unless Thou wish it, 
and what contrive unless Thou desire it? 
What strength shal I have 
unless Thou keep me upright, 
and how shal I understand 
unless by (the spirit) which Thou hast shaped for me? 
What can I say unless Thou open my mouth 
and how can I answer unless Thou enlighten me? 
Behold, Thou art Prince of gods 
and King of majesties, 
Lord of al spirits, 
and Ruler of al creatures; 
nothing is done without Thee, 
and nothing is known without Thy wi l.
 Beside Thee there is nothing, 
and nothing can compare with Thee in strength; 
in the presence of Thy glory there is nothing, 
and Thy might is without price.
 Who among Thy great and marvelous creatures 
can stand in the presence of Thy glory? 
How then can he who returns to his dust? 
For Thy glory’s sake alone hast Thou made al these things.
 Hymn 20 (formerly 16)
 Blessed art Thou, O Lord, 
God of mercy [and abundant] grace, 
for Thou hast made known [Thy wisdom to me 
that I should recount] Thy marvelous deeds, 
keeping silence neither by day nor [by night]!
 [For I have trusted] in Thy grace. 
In Thy great goodness, 
and in [the multitude of Thy mercies] 
For I have leaned on Thy truth 
[And unless] Thou rebuke, 
there is no stumbling; 
unless Thou foreknow it, 
[there is no] scourge; 
[nothing is done without] Thy [wi l].
 [I wi l cling to Thy ways] 
according to my knowledge [of Thy] truth; 
contemplating Thy glory 
I wi l recount Thy wonderful works, 
and understanding [Thy goodness 
I wi l lean on the] multitude of Thy mercies 
and hope for Thy forgiveness.
 For Thou Thyself hast shaped [my spirit] 
and established me [according to Thy wi l]; 
and Thou hast not placed my support in gain, 
[nor does] my [heart delight in riches]; 
Thou hast given me no fleshly refuge. 
The might of warriors [rests] on abundant delights, 
[and on plenty of corn] and wine and oil; 
they pride themselves in possessions and wealth. 
[But the righteous is like a] green [tree] 
beside streams of water, 
bringing forth leaves and multiplying its branches; 
for [Thou hast chosen them 
from among the children of] men 
that they may al grow fat from the land.
 Thou wilt give to the children of Thy truth 
[unending joy and] everlasting [gladness], 
and according to the measure of their knowledge, 
so shal they be honoured one more than another.
 And likewise for the son of man ... 
Thou wilt increase his portion 
in the knowledge of Thy truth, 
and according to the measure of his knowledge, 
so shal he be honoured ... 
[For the soul] of Thy servant has loathed [riches] and gain, 
and he has not [desired] exquisite delights. 
My heart rejoices in Thy Covenant 
and Thy truth delights my soul. 
I shal flower [like the lily] 
and my heart shal be open to the everlasting fountain; 
my support shal be in the might from on high. 
But... 
and withers like a flower before [the heat]. 
My heart is stricken with terror, 
and my loins with trembling; 
my groaning goes down to the Abyss, 
and is shut up in the chambers of Hel. 
I am greatly afraid when I hear of Thy judgement 
of the mighty Heroes, 
and of Thy trial of the host 
of Thy Holy Ones 
XIX (formerly XI)
 Hymn 21 (formerly 17)
 I thank Thee, my God, 
for Thou hast dealt wondrously to dust, 
and mightily towards a creature of clay! 
I thank Thee, I thank Thee!
 What am I, that Thou shouldst [teach] me 
the counsel of Thy truth, 
and give me understanding 
of Thy marvelous works; 
that Thou shouldst lay hymns of thanksgiving 
within my mouth 
and [praise] upon my tongue, 
and that of my circumcised lips 
(Thou shouldst make) a seat of rejoicing?
 I wi l sing Thy mercies, 
and on Thy might I wil meditate al day long. 
I wi l bless Thy Name evermore. 
I wi l declare Thy glory in the midst of the sons of men 
and my soul shal delight in Thy great goodness.
 I know that Thy word is truth, 
and that righteousness is in Thy hand; 
that a l knowledge is in Thy purpose, 
and that al power is in Thy might, 
and that every glory is Thine. 
In Thy wrath are al chastisements, 
but in Thy goodness is much forgiveness 
and Thy mercy is towards the sons of Thy goodwil. 
For Thou hast made known to them 
the counsel of Thy truth, 
and hast taught them Thy marvelous mysteries.
 For the sake of Thy glory 
Thou hast purified man of sin 
that he may be made holy for Thee, 
with no abominable uncleanness 
and no guilty wickedness; 
that he may be one [with] the children of Thy truth 
and partake of the lot of Thy Holy Ones; 
that bodies gnawed by worms may be raised from the dust 
to the counsel [of Thy truth], 
and that the perverse spirit (may be lifted) 
to the understanding [which comes from Thee]; 
that he may stand before Thee 
with the everlasting host 
and with [Thy] spirits [of holiness], 
to be renewed together with al the living 
and to rejoice together with them that know.
 Hymn 22 (formerly 18)
 I thank Thee, my God! 
I praise Thee, my Rock! 
For Thou hast made known to me the counsel of Thy truth 
[and hast taught me Thy marvelous mysteries;] 
and hast revealed Thy [wonders] to me. 
I have beheld {Thy marvels} (4Q427 fr. 1, i) [towards the
 children] 
of grace, 
and I know [that] righteousness is Thine, 
that in Thy mercies there is [hope for me], 
but without Thy grace [destruction] without end. 
But a fountain of bitter mourning opens for me, 
[and my tears fal down]. 
Distress is not hidden from my eyes 
when I think of the (evil) inclinations of man, 
of his return [to dust], 
{I understand and observe} (4Q427 fr. 1, iii) sin and the sorrow 
of guilt. 
They enter my heart and reach into my bones 
to... 
and to meditate in sorrowful meditation. 
I wi l groan with the zither of lamentation 
in al grief-stricken mourning and bitter complaint 
until iniquity and [wickedness] are consumed 
and the disease-bringing scourge is no more. 
Then wil I play on the zither of deliverance 
and the harp of joy, 
[on the tabors of prayer] and the pipe of praise 
without end.
 Who among al Thy creatures 
is able to recount [Thy wonders]? 
May Thy Name be praised 
by the mouth of al men! 
May they bless Thee for ever 
in accordance with [their understanding], 
and proclaim Thee with the voice of praise 
in the company of [the Sons of Heaven]! 
There shal be neither groaning nor complaint 
and wickedness [shal be destroyed for ever]; 
Thy truth shal be revealed in eternal glory 
and everlasting peace.
 Blessed art [Thou, O my Lord], 
who hast given to [Thy servant] 
the knowledge of wisdom 
that he may comprehend Thy wonders, 
and recount Thy ... 
in Thy abundant grace! 
Blessed art Thou, 
O God of mercy and compassion, 
for the might of Thy [power] 
and the greatness of Thy truth, 
and for the multitude of Thy favours 
in al Thy works!
 Rejoice the soul of Thy servant with Thy truth 
and cleanse me by Thy righteousness. 
Even as I have hoped in Thy goodness, 
and waited for Thy grace, 
so hast Thou freed me from my calamities 
in accordance with Thy forgiveness; 
and in my distress Thou hast comforted me 
for I have leaned on Thy mercy.
 Blessed art Thou, O Lord, 
for it is Thou who hast done these things! 
Thou hast set [hymns of praise] 
within the mouth of Thy servant, 
and hast established for me a response of the tongue.
 Hymn 23 (formerly 19)
 XX (formerly X I)
 ... {with the ever[lasting] spirits} (4Q427, fr. 3 ii, 1. 4) 
securely in a dweling {of peac[e,} (4Q427, fr. 2, 11. 1-2) 
in sil]ence and quietness in the tents of security and salvation.
 I wi l praise Thy Name among them that fear Thee. 
Bowing down in prayer I wil beg Thy favours 
from season to season always:
 when light emerges from [its dweling-place], 
and when the day reaches its appointed end 
in accordance with the laws 
of the Great Light of heaven; 
when evening fals and light departs 
at the beginning of the dominion of darkness, 
at the hour appointed for night, 
and at its end when morning returns 
and (the shadows) retire to their dweling-place 
before the approach of light; 
always; 
at the genesis of every period 
and at the beginning of every age 
and at the end of every season, 
according to the statute and signs 
appointed to every dominion 
by the certain law from the mouth of God, 
by the precept which is and shal be 
for ever and ever without end. 
Without it nothing is nor shal be, 
for the God of knowledge established it 
and there is no other beside Him.
 I, the Master, know Thee O my God, 
by the spirit which Thou hast given to me, 
and by Thy Holy Spirit I have faithfuly hearkened 
to Thy marvelous counsel. 
In the mystery of Thy wisdom 
Thou hast opened knowledge to me, 
and in Thy mercies 
[Thou hast unlocked for me] the fountain of Thy might. 
Before Thee no man is just ... 
[that he may] understand al Thy mysteries 
or give answer [to Thy rebuke. 
But the children of Thy grace 
shal delight in] Thy correction 
and watch for Thy goodness, 
for in Thy mercies [Thou wilt show Thyself to them] 
and they shal know Thee; 
at the time of Thy glory 
they shal rejoice. 
[Thou hast caused them to draw near] 
in accordance [with their knowledge], 
and hast admitted them 
in accordance with their understanding, 
and in their divisions they sha l serve Thee 
throughout their dominion 
[without ever turning aside] from Thee 
or transgressing Thy word.
 Behold, [I was taken] from dust 
[and] fashioned [out of clay] 
as a source of uncleanness, 
and a shameful nakedness, 
a heap of dust, 
and a kneading [with water,] 
and a house of darkness, 
a creature of clay returning to dust, 
returning [at the appointed time 
to dwel] in the dust whence it was taken.
 How then shal dust reply to its Maker, 
[and how] understand His [works]? 
How shal it stand before Him who reproves it? 
[and the Spring of] Eternity, 
the Wel of Glory 
and the Fountain of Knowledge. 
Not even [the wonderful] Heroes [can] declare al Thy glory 
or stand in face of Thy wrath, 
and there is none among them 
that can answer Thy rebuke; 
for Thou art just and none can oppose Thee. 
How then can (man) who returns to his dust?
 I hold my peace; 
what more shal I say than this? 
I have spoken in accordance with my knowledge, 
out of the righteousness given to a creature of clay. 
And how shal I speak unless Thou open my mouth; 
how understand unless Thou teach me? 
How shal I seek Thee unless Thou uncover my heart, 
and how folow the way that is straight 
unless [Thou guide me? 
How shal my foot] stay on [the path 
unless Thou] give it strength; 
and how shal I rise...
 XXI (formerly XV I, 16-33+fr- 3)
 Hymn 24(formerly 25)
 [How] shal I look, 
unless Thou open my eyes?
Or hear, 
[unless Thou unstop my ears]?
 My heart is astounded, 
for to the uncircumcised ear 
a word has been disclosed, 
and a heart [of stone 
has understood the right precepts].
 I know it is for Thyself 
that Thou hast done these things, O God; 
for what is flesh 
[that Thou shouldst act] marvelously [towards it]? 
It is Thy purpose to do mightily 
and to establish al things for Thy glory. 
[Thou hast created] the host of knowledge 
to declare (Thy) mighty deeds to flesh, 
and the right precepts to him that is born [of woman]. 
Thou hast [caused the perverse heart to enter] 
into a Covenant with Thee, 
and hast uncovered the heart of dust 
that it may be preserved from evil 
and saved from the snares of Judgement 
in accordance with Thy mercies.
 And I, a creature [of clay 
kneaded with water, 
a heap of dust] 
and a heart of stone, 
for what am I reckoned to be worthy of this? 
For into an ear of dust [Thou hast put a new word] 
and hast engraved on a heart of [stone] things everlasting. 
Thou hast caused [the straying spirit] to return 
that it may enter into a Covenant with Thee, 
and stand [before Thee for ever] 
in the everlasting abode, 
i lumined with perfect Light for ever, 
with [no more] darkness, 
[for un]ending [seasons of joy] 
and un[numbered] ages of peace. 
And as for me, a creature of dust, ...
 Fr. 3
 Pile of dust, how shal I stand in front of the tempest? 
... and He wi l guard me 
according to the mysteries of His good pleasure. For He 
knows... 
And they wil hide snares of wickedness, net after net. 
... every creature of deceit wi l come to an end ... 
[wickedness wi l] turn to nothing 
and the inclination towards iniquity wi l vanish 
and deeds of deceit [wi l perish]. 
As for me, creature of [clay] ... 
... how wi l it gain strength for Thee? 
Thou art the God of [knowledge] 
Thou hast made them [according to Thy design] 
and without Thee [nothing exists]. 
[As for me, creature] of dust, I know 
through the spirit which Thou hast put into me 
that ... 
injustice and deceit wi l be awe-struck 
and insolence wi l cease. 
[wo]rks of uncleanness wi l (turn into) sickness 
and judgements (leading to) plague and destruction ... 
XXI (formerly XV I ii, 27-29+fr. I i+fr. 52 
bottom+fr. 4+fr. 47) 
... [hol]iness that are in heaven 
... and He is wonder. 
But they cannot [understand] Thy [marvel]s 
and they wi l not be able to know al [Thy mysteries]. 
[How then can he who retur]ns to his dust? 
As for me, I am a man of sin 
who has walowed [in the ways of uncleanness] 
[and been defiled] by the guilt of wickedness. 
As for me, in the times of wrath [I have falen(?)]. 
How can I rise in view of my wound 
and keep myself... 
For there is hope for man... 
As for me, creature of clay, 
I have leaned [on Thy loving-kindness 
and on the multitude of Thy mysteries,] O my God. 
And I know that truthful is [Thy mouth, 
and that Thy words are not] revoked. 
As for me, I wil rely in my time [on Thy Covenant 
and wil rai]se myself to the post 
which Thou hast established for me ...
 Fr. 4
 ... As for me, I was frightened by Thy judgements 
Who is found clean in Thy judgement? 
And what is [man before Thee? 
Thou bringest] him to judgement 
and he returns to his dust. 
... [my G]o[d]. 
Thou hast opened my heart for Thy understanding 
and hast unstopped [my] ear[s] ... 
to lean on Thy goodness. 
My heart murmurs ... 
and my heart melts like wax 
because of iniquity and sin.... 
Blessed art Thou, God of knowledge, 
who hast established... 
And Thou hast met Thy servant with this for Thy sake. 
For I know Thy [loving-kindness 
and in] Thy [mercies] I hope in al my existence, 
and I bless Thy name always. 
Do not forsake me in the times [of distress (?)]
 XX I (formerly XV I, 1-16+fr. 57 i+fr. 2 i) 
they are confirmed in [the ears] of Thy servant for ever 
... [to announce] Thy marvelous tidings 
Withdraw not Thy hand ... 
that he may be confirmed in Thy Covenant 
and stand before Thee [for ever].
 [For Thou, O my God,] didst open a [fountain] 
in the mouth of Thy Servant. 
Thou didst engrave by the measuring-cord 
[Thy mysteries] upon his tongue, 
[that] out of his understanding 
[he might] preach to a creature, 
and interpret these things 
to dust like myself.
 Thou didst open [his fountain] 
that he might rebuke the creature of clay for his way, 
and him who is born of woman 
for the guilt of his deeds; 
that he might open [the fount of] Thy truth 
to a creature whom Thou upholdest by Thy might; 
[that he might be], according to Thy truth, 
a messenger [in the season] of Thy goodness; 
that to the humble he might bring 
glad tidings of Thy great mercy, 
[proclaiming salvation] 
from out of the fountain [of holiness 
to the contrite] of spirit, 
and everlasting joy to those who mourn.
 Fr. 2
 ... [to prai]se Thee 
and to recount al Thy glory. 
As for me, what am I? 
For I was taken from dust. 
But Th[ou, O my God], 
Thou hast done al these [for] Thy [g]lory. 
According to the greatness of Thy loving-kindness 
put the guard of Thy righteousness 
[in the hand of Th]y [servant] for ever 
until deliverance. 
May the interpreters of knowledge be with al my steps 
and those who decide truth [in al my ways]. 
For what is dust among al[1] ... 
Ashes are in their hand: nothing at al. 
and Thou hast shed [Thy Holy] Spirit over dust 
[to bring him into the company] of the ‘gods’ 
and unite them with the Sons of Heaven. 
Thou hast shed Thy [Ho]ly [Spirit] to atone for guilt 
for they are established in Thy truth. 
[And Thou, my God], 
Thou hast acted wondrously for Thy glory
 4Q427 7 i-i (1QH, frs. 7, 46, 55, 56, 4Q428
 15,40431 1)
 I... 
For I am made to stand with the ‘gods’, 
and I wi l not... [glory or majes]ty for me with fine gold; 
gold and purified gold, [I wi l] not... in me; 
... wi l not be reckoned for me. 
Chant, O beloved, sing to the King [of glory. 
Rejoice, in the cong]regation of God. 
Exult in the tents of salvation. 
Give thanks in the dweling 
[of holiness], 
extol together with the eternal host. 
Magnify our God and glorify our King. 
Sanctify His name with powerful lips 
and a victorious tongue. 
Lift up alone your voice in al ages, 
Let a joyous meditation be heard. 
Burst out in eternal rejoicings 
and prostrate incessantly in the common assembly. 
Bless the wonderful Maker of exalted things, 
Him who proclaims the power of His hand, 
sealing mysteries and revealing secrets, 
lifting up those who stumble and fal, 
[rest]oring the progress of those who hope for knowledge 
and humbling the meetings of the everlastingly haughty; 
[seal]ing the mysteries of sp[lendour] 
and establi[shing the wonlders of glory. 
O Judge, whose anger is destructive, 
... in righteous loving-kindness and great mercy, 
be gracious to ... 
... mercy to those who bear fruits of His great goodness, 
and the source of... 
I ... wickedness ends... 
[op]pression [ceases], the tyrant ceases... 
treachery [sto]ps and there are no senseless perversities. 
Light shines and joy bursts forth; 
mourning [vanishes] and sorrow flees. 
Peace is revealed, dread ceases. 
A spring has opened up for an [eternal] bles[sing] 
and for healing in al the everlasting ages. 
Iniquity has stopped, plague has ceased with no more i ln[ess]. 
... has been gathered in and... wi l be no more. 
Announce and say: Great is God, Ma[ker of marvels]. 
For He humbles the proud spirit with no remnant 
and from the dust He lifts up the poor to [eternal heights]. 
And He lifts him up to the clouds 
to share a common assembly with the ‘gods’. 
And... 
anger for everlasting destruction. 
He raises freely the totterers on earth, 
and [His] mi[ght is with] their steps, 
and everlasting joy is in their dwelings, 
eternal glory without end [for ever].
 Let them say: Blessed be God, Author of majestic [w]onders, 
who reveals might splendidly, 
and justifies with knowledge al His creatures, 
so that goodness is on their faces. 
They know the multitude of [His] loving [kindness] 
and the abundance of His mercies 
to al the children of His truth. 
We know Thee, O God of righteousness, 
and we comprehend [Thy ... , O King] 
of glory. 
For we have seen Thy zeal through Thy mighty power 
and have observed [Thy] d[eeds 
in the abundance] of Thy mercies and wondrous forgiveness.
 What is flesh compared to these? 
What do [dust and ashes] amoun[t to] 
that they recite these things from age to age, 
and hold themselves upright [before Thee 
and enter into communion with] the Sons of Heaven. 
No interpreter can answer according to Thy mouth 
and... to Thee. 
For Thou hast established us according to [Thy] ple[asure] 
in the territory [of iniquity] ... 
... we have spoken to Thee and not to a medi[ator] ... 
[And Thou hast lent] an ea[r] to the issue of our lips.
 Annou[nce and say: Blessed be God, 
Creator] of the heavens by His power, 
Desig[ner] of al their devices [by] His strength, 
of the earth by [His] migh[t] ...
Hymnic Fragment
 (4Q433a)
 The verso side of this papyrus, palaeographicaly dated to the first half
 of the first century BCE, contains the beginning of the Community Rule
 (4Q255). The recto carries a poem similar to the Qumran Hymns or
 Hodayot and elaborates the familiar image of the Community as a
 plant in God’s garden.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Schuler, DJD, XXIX, 237-45.
 Fr. 2
 ... for the everlasting sea[sons]. 
For the Master. A sim[il]itude about the glory of ... 
A plant of delight, a plant in His garden and in his 
vineyard. 
Its twigs wi l bear fruit and its branches wi l increase... 
and its branches (reaching) above the elevated support of 
heaven; 
and its splendour offers itself for everlasting generations, 
producing fru[it] for a l who are to taste it. 
There wi l be no wild grapes among its fruits. 
It wi l have foliage, leaves and blossoms. 
None of its roots wi l be puled up from its bed of 
balsam for...
Apocryphal Psalms (I)
 ( IQPsa=IQ5,4Q88)
 The incomplete Psalms scrol from Cave 11 (11QPsa), published by J.
 A. Sanders (DJD, IV, Oxford, 1965), contains seven non-canonical
 poems interspersed among the canonical Psalms. One of these
 figures as Ps. 151 in the Greek Psalter, and four further compositions
 have been preserved in Syriac translation. Three previously unknown
 poems and an extract from the Hebrew version of Sirach li also feature
 in the Scrol.
 In Ps. 151 A and B or Syriac Ps. i, the story of the election of David,
 the shepherd boy, as ruler of Israel, and his victory over Goliath, are
 poetica ly retold. Ps. 154 or Syr. Ps. ii is a sapiential hymn, the
 beginning and end of which are extant only in Syriac, but 4Q448,
 column A (lines 8—10) represents a few words in Hebrew
 corresponding to Ps. 154, 17-20 (cf. E. and H. Eshel and A. Yardeni,
 ‘A Qumran Composition Containing Part of Ps. 154 ... ’, IEJ 42 (1992),
 201-14). Ps. 155 or Syr. Ps. iii is an amalgam of an individual
 complaint and thanksgiving. Part of it is an alphabet acrostic, i.e. the
 lines begin with consecutive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Plea for
 Deliverance is an individual thanksgiving hymn, the beginning of which
 is lost. The Zion Psalm, of which lines 1-3 and 8-15 are also in a
 fragmentary Psalms scrol from Cave 4 (4Q88 VI-V I), is another
 alphabetic acrostic hymn praising Jerusalem. Finaly, the Psalm of the
 Creation is a further sapiential hymn.
 A midrashic account of the poetic activities of David is inserted in
 column XXVI of IQ5, crediting him with 4,050 compositions,
 subdivided into psalms, songs for the daily holocaust, songs for the
Sabbath sacrifice, songs for festivals and songs for exorcism. The
 mention of fifty-two Sabbaths and the 364 days indicates that the
 author envisaged the solar year of the Qumran calendar.
 The figure of 4,050 should be viewed against the equaly prolific
 literary achievement claimed for Solomon in 1 Kings v, 12 (3,000
 proverbs and 1,005 songs according to the Hebrew text;
 3,000proverbs and 5,000 songs according to the Septuagint). As for
 Josephus, he attributes to Solomon 1,005 books of poems and 3,000
 books of parables (Antiquities V I, 44).
 Only this catalogue, written in prose, is definitely sectarian. The
 psalms themselves probably belong to the second century BCE at the
 latest, but they may even date to the third century BCE.
 Psalm 151A
 XXV I Halelujah. Of David, son of Jesse.
 1. I was smaler than my brothers, and younger than the sons of my
 father.
 He made me shepherd of his flock, and a ruler over his kids.
 2. My hands have made a pipe and my fingers a lyre.
 I have rendered glory to the Lord; I have said so in my soul.
 3. The mountains do not testify to him, and the hi ls do not tel (of
 him).
 The trees praise my words and the flocks my deeds.
 4. For who can tel and speak of and recount the works of the
 Lord?
 God has seen al, he has heard al, and he listens to al.
 5. He sent his prophet to anoint me, Samuel to magnify me.
 My brothers went out to meet him, beautiful of figure, beautiful of
 appearance.
 6. They were tal of stature with beautiful hair, yet the Lord did not
 choose them.
 7. He sent and took me from behind the flock, and anointed me
 with holy oil, as a prince of his people, and a ruler among the
sons of his Covenant.
 Psalm 151B
 The first display of David’s power after God’s prophet had anointed
 him.
 1. Then I saw the Philistine taunting [from the enemy lines] ...
 Syriac Psalm ii = Psalm 154
 1 XV I [Glorify God with a great voice. Proclaim his majesty in the
 congregation of the many.
 2 Glorify his name amid the multitude of the upright and recount
 his greatness with the faithful.
 3 Join] your souls to the good and to the perfect to glorify the Most
 High.
 4 Assemble together to make known his salvation.
 And be not slow in making known his strength, and his majesty
 to al the simple.
 5 For wisdom is given to make known the glory of the Lord and to
 recount the greatness of his deeds. She is made known to man,
 7 to declare his strength to the simple, and to give insight into his
 greatness to those without understanding,
 8 they who are far from her gates, who have strayed from her
 entrances.
 9 For the Most High is the Lord of Jacob, and his majesty is over
 al his works.
 10 And a man who glorifies the Most High is accepted by him as
 one bringing an offering,
 11 as one offering he-goats and calves, as one causing the altar
 to grow fat on a multitude of burnt-offerings, as an agreeable
 incense by the hand of the righteous.
12 From the doors of the righteous her voice is heard, and from
 the congregation of the devout her song.
 13 When they eat their fi l, she is mentioned, and when they drink
 in community together.
 14 Their meditation is on the Law of the Most High, and their
 words are for making known his strength.
 15 How far from the wicked is her word, and her knowledge from
 the insolent.
 16 Behold the eyes of the Lord have compassion on the good,
 17 and his mercy is great over those who glorify him; from an evil
 time he saves [their] souls.
 18 [Bless] the Lord who redeems the humble from the hand of
 str[angers] [and deliv]ers [the perfect from the hand of the
 wicked;]
 19 [who lifts up a horn out of Ja]cob, and a judge [out of Israel].
 20 [He desires his tabernacle in Zion, and chooses Jerusalem for
 ever.]
 SyriacPsalm iii =Psalm 155
 1. XXIV O Lord, I have caled to Thee, hear me.
 2. I have spread out my hands towards Thy holy dweling-place.
 3. Turn Thine ear and grant me my request,
 4. and do not withhold my plea from me.
 5. Construct my soul and do not cast it away,
 6. and do not leave it alone before the wicked.
 7. May the true judge turn away from me the rewards of evil.
 8. Lord, do not judge me according to my sins, for no living man is
 righteous before Thee.
 9. Lord, cause me to understand Thy Law and teach me Thy
 judgements.
 10. And the multitude shal hear of Thy deeds, and peoples shal
 honour Thy glory.
 11. Remember me and forget me not, and bring me not to
unbearable hardships.
 12. Put away from me the sin of my youth, and may my sins not be
 remembered against me.
 13. Lord, cleanse me from the evil plague, and let it not return to
 me.
 14. Dry up its roots within me, and permit not its leaves to flourish
 in me.
 15. Lord, Thou art glory; therefore my plea is fulfi led before Thee.
 16. 6 To whom shal I cry so that he wil grant it to me? What more
 can the po[wer] of the sons of men do?
 17. From before Thee, O Lord, comes my trust. I cried to the Lord
 and he answered me; he healed the brokenness of my heart.
 18. 8 I was sleepy [and I] slept; I dreamt and also [I awoke].
 19. [Lord, Thou didst support me when my heart was stricken, and
 I caled upon the Lor]d [my saviour].
 20. Now I wil see their shame; I have relied on Thee, and I wil not
 be ashamed. (Render glory for ever and ever.)
 21. Redeem Israel, Thy pious one, O Lord, and the house of
 Jacob, Thine elect.
 Prayer for Deliverance
 XIX For no worm thanks Thee, nor a maggot recounts Thy loving
kindness.
 Only the living thank Thee, al they whose feet totter, thank Thee,
 when Thou makest known to them Thy loving-kindness, and causest
 them to understand Thy righteousness.
 For the soul of al the living is in Thy hand; Thou hast given breath to
 al flesh.
 O Lord, do towards us according to Thy goodness, according to the
 greatness of Thy mercies, and according to the greatness of Thy
 righteous deeds.
 The Lord listens to the voice of al who love his name and does not
 permit his loving-kindness to depart from them.
Blessed be the Lord, doer of righteous deeds, who crowns his pious
 ones with loving-kindness and mercies.
 My soul shouts to praise Thy name, to praise with jubilation Thy
 mercies, to announce Thy faithfulness; there is no limit to Thy praises.
 I belonged to death because of my sins, and my iniquities had sold
 me to Sheol.
 But Thou didst save me, O Lord, according to the greatness of Thy
 mercies, according to the greatness of Thy righteous deeds.
 I, too, have loved Thy name, and have taken refuge in Thy shadow.
 When I remember Thy power, my heart is strengthened and I rely on
 Thy mercies.
 Forgive my sins, O Lord, and purify me of my iniquity.
 Grant me a spirit of faithfulness and knowledge; let me not be
 dishonoured in ruin.
 Let not Belial dominate me, nor an unclean spirit; let pain and the
 evil inclination not possess my bones.
 For Thou, O Lord, art my praise, and I hope in Thee every day. My
 brethren rejoice with me and the house of my father is astounded by
 Thy graciousness.
 ... for ever I wi l rejoice in Thee.
 Apostrophe to Zion
 XXII wi l remember you, O Zion, for a blessing; 
with al my might I love you; 
your memory is to be blessed for ever. 
Your hope is great, O Zion; 
Peace and your awaited salvation wi l come. 
Generation after generation shal dwel in you, 
and generations of the pious shal be your ornament. 
They who desire the day of your salvation 
shal rejoice in the greatness of your glory. 
They shal be suckled on the fulness of your glory, 
and in your beautiful streets they shal make tinkling sounds. 
You shal remember the pious deeds of your prophets, 
and shal glorify yourself in the deeds of your pious ones. 
Cleanse violence from your midst; 
lying and iniquity, may they be cut off from you. 
Your sons shal rejoice within you, 
and your cherished ones shal be joined to you. 
How much they have hoped in your salvation, 
and how much your perfect ones have mourned for you? 
Your hope, O Zion, shal not perish, 
and your expectation wi l not be forgotten. 
Is there a just man who has perished? 
Is there a man who has escaped his iniquity? 
Man is tried according to his way, 
each is repaid according to his deeds. 
Your oppressors shal be cut off from around you, O Zion, 
and al who hate you shal be dispersed. 
Your praise is pleasing, O Zion; 
it rises up in al the world. 
Many times I wil remember you for a blessing; 
I wi l bless you with al my heart. 
You shal attain to eternal righteousness, 
and shal receive blessings from the noble. 
Take the vision which speaks of you, 
and the dreams of the prophets requested for you. 
Be exalted and increase, O Zion; 
Praise the Most High, your Redeemer! 
May my soul rejoice in your glory!
 Hymn to the Creator
 XXVI The Lord is great and holy, the Most Holy for generation after
 generation.
 Majesty goes before him, and after him abundance of many waters.
 Loving-kindness and truth are about his face; truth and judgement and
righteousness are the pedestal of his throne.
 He divides light from obscurity; he establishes the dawn by the
 knowledge of his heart.
 When al his angels saw it, they sang, for he showed them that which
 they had not known.
 He crowns the mountains with fruit, with good food for al the living.
 Blessed be the master of the earth with his power, who establishes
 the world by his wisdom.
 By his understanding he stretched out the heaven, and brought forth
 [wind] from his st[ores].
 He made [lightnings for the rai]n, and raised mist from the end [of the
 earth].
 An Account of David’s Poems
 XXVI David son of Jesse was wise and briliant like the light of the
 sun; (he was) a scribe, inteligent and perfect in al his ways before
 God and men.
 YHWH gave him an inteligent and briliant spirit, and he wrote 3,600
 psalms and 364 songs to sing before the altar for the daily perpetual
 sacrifice, for a l the days of the year; and 52 songs for the Sabbath
 offerings; and 30 songs for the New Moons, for Feast-days and for the
 Day of Atonement.
 In al, the songs which he uttered were 446, and 4 songs to make
 music on behalf of those stricken (by evil spirits).
 In al, they were 4,050.
 Al these he uttered through prophecy which was given him from
 before the Most High.
Apocryphal Psalms ( I)
 (4Q88)
 The last four columns (V I- x) of a fragmentary Psalms manuscript from
 Cave 4 have preserved three apocryphal poems. The first of these
 (cols. vii-viii) is identical with 11Q5 XX I already presented (pp. 311
12). Of the other two, the first (col. ix) focuses on the final judgement
 and the second (col. x) is a hymn to Judah.
 For the editio princeps, see P. W. Skehan et al., DJD, XVI, 102-6.
 IX ... Congregation 
and they shal praise 
the name of the Lord, 
for He has come to judge every action, 
to remove the wicked from the earth 
[so that the sons] of iniquity sha l not be found. 
The heavens [shal give] their dew 
and there shal be no... [within] their [boundarie]s. 
And the earth 
shal [give] its fruit in its time 
and its [prod]uct sha l not fail. 
The fruit trees [sha l] ... of its vineyards 
and its ... sha l not lie. 
The poor shal eat 
and the God-fearers shal be sated. 
X ... 
Then heaven and earth shal exult together. 
Let al the stars of the evening twilight exult. 
Rejoice, Judah, rejoice! 
Rejoice, rejoice and be glad with gladness! 
Celebrate your feasts and pay your vows 
for there is no Belial in your midst. 
Raise your hand and fortify your right hand! 
Behold the enemy shal perish 
and al the workers of iniquity shal be dispersed. 
But Thou, O Lord, art for eve[r]. 
Thy glory shal be for eve[r and eve]r. 
[Ha]l[eluiah].
Apocryphal Psalms ( I)
 (11QapPsa=11Q11)
 Badly worn remains of five columns of a Scrol with apocryphal psalms,
 at least partly devoted to exorcism, have survived in Cave 11. Most of
 the columns are so poorly preserved that no continuous reading is
 possible. In col. I, where the name of Solomon implies that this was
 one of the poems attributed to him, the repeated use of the term
 ‘demons’ and mention of ‘healing’ suggest the genre of the
 composition. In col. I a ‘powerful angel’ is mentioned who seems to be
 charged with defeating the demon and casting it to the ‘great abyss’
 and the ‘nethermost [hel]’. Col. v, 3—13 has been recognized as the
 canonical Psalm xci, preceded by smal remains of the exorcistic
 poem of col. IV and folowed by a liturgical formula, ‘And they shal
 an[swer, Amen, amen.] Selah.’ Al the lacunae of col. IV have been
 conjectura ly fi led by E. Puech in a French rendering. His presentation
 wi l be reproduced here in English; it provides a possible general
 understanding of the text, but with no guarantee that any of the restored
 details is correct.
 For preliminary editions, see J. P. M. van der Ploeg, ‘Un petit
 rouleau de psaumes apocryphes (IQPsApa)’, in G. Jeremias et al.,
 eds., Tradition und Glaube (K. G. Kuhn Festschrift) (Göttingen, 1971),
 128-39; E. Puech, ‘Les deux derniers psaumes davidiques du rituel
 d’exorcisme, IQPsApa IV 4-v 14’, in D. Dimant and U. Rappaport,
 eds., The Dead Sea Scrols: Forty Years of Research (Leiden, 1992),
 64-89; cf. esp. pp. 68-9. For the editio princeps, see F. García
 Martinez et al., DJD, XX I, 181-205.
 I . 
Who [has] pe[rformed these signs] and marv[els on] the earth? 
The Lord is the one [who] performed th[ese through] His [might]. 
He adjures al [His] a[ngels] and al the see[d of holiness] who stand 
before [Him, 
and makes al the hea]vens testify and the whole earth 
[against those] who sinned against [al men], 
and acted [wickedly] against every hu[man. 
And] they know [the mysteries of] His m[arvels] which they do not... 
[and they fear] the Lord... to ki l... 
... the Lord... the Lord... 
and they wi l fear that great blow.
 IV ... 
The Lord wil strike you with a [grea]t b[low] for your destruction... 
and in His anger He wil send against you 
a mighty angel [to execute] al His decisions, 
who wil be [without] mercy on you... against al these, 
who [wi l take] you [down] to the great abyss, 
[and to] the nethermost [hel.] 
... dark [in the gr]eat abyss... no more on the earth. 
... for ever, and... by the curse of Abaddon (the bottom of hel) 
...the furious anger of the L[ord]....
 V... 
[Ra]phael healed them. Amen, amen. Selah. 
Of David ... [an incan]tation in the name of the Lor[d. 
Cal an]y time on heav[en], 
for He wil come to you in the ni[ght, 
and] you wi l say to Him: 
Who are you, [one born of] man 
And of the seed of the ho[ly on]es? 
Your face is a face of in[anity] 
And your horns are horns of dream. 
You are darkness and not light, 
Injustice and not righteousness. 
The Prince of the host, the Lord, 
[wi l send] you [down to the lowest he]l, 
[and wi l close the ga]tes of bronze 
through [which n]o light [passes] 
and [the] sun wh[ich rises on the] righteous 
[wi l] not [enlighten you] ... 
And you wil say...
 VI . 
To David. O[n words of incanta]tion. [Cry out al]l the time in the name 
of the Lor[d] 
towards heave[n when] Beli[al] comes to you. 
[And sa]y to him: 
Who are you? [Be afraid of] man and of the seed of the ho[ly ones]. 
Your face is a face of [nothin]g and your horns are horns of dr[eam]. 
[You ar]e [d]arkness and not light; [injustic]e and not righteousness. 
[The prin]ce of the h[os]t [is against you]; the Lord [wi l cast] you [to] 
the nethermost [hel], 
[closed by] bronze ga[tes] through [which n]o light [sha l pass]; 
nor [shal shine there the light of the] sun which [wi l rise] over the 
righteous to il[lumine his face. 
And] you wil say: 
Is [there not an angel with the ri]ghteous when [judgement] comes [for] 
S[atan for] he caused him evil? 
[And the spirit of t]ruth [wi l save him] from dar[kness because 
right]eousness is for him. 
... for ever [a l the] son of Bel[ial. Amen, amen.] Selah.
Non-canonical Psalms
 (4Q380-81)
 Two poorly preserved manuscripts, the first consisting of seven and
 the second of 110 fragments, contain apocryphal Hebrew religious
 poetry resembling biblical Psalms more than the Hodayot (1QH) from
 Qumran. Some of them reuse and combine canonical Psalms (e.g. fr.
 15 re-employing Pss. lxxxvi and lxxxix, and fr. 24, Ps. xviii). Not one
 single line has survived intact and only a few of these largely mediocre
 poems can be translated. Their editor, Eileen Schuler, assigns the
 colection to the Persian-Helenistic era and considers it to be a pre
sectarian composition. Palaeographicaly the manuscript is dated to
 the first half of the first century BCE. No historical alusions are
 included. Like many of the biblical Psalms, these poems bore titles,
 three of which have been preserved: ‘Psalm of Obadiah’ (4Q380 1 11,
 8); ‘Hymn of the Man of God’ (4Q381 24, 4) and ‘Prayer of Manasseh,
 King of Judah when the King of Assyria imprisoned him’ (4Q381 33,
 8). The attributions are no doubt pseudepigraphic. Whether Obadiah
 is the minor prophet or the court official mentioned in 1 Kings xviii, 3
 cannot be decided.
 For the editio princeps, see Eileen Schuler, DJD, XI, 75-172.
 4Q380, fr. 1
 I ... [Jeru]salem, that is [the city 
chosen by the L]ord from everlasting to [everlasting.] 
... the holy ones 
[for the na]me of the Lord is caled on her, 
[and his glory] is seen on Jerusalem and Zion. 
Who wil utter the name of the Lord, 
and who makes al his praises heard? 
The Lord [remem]bered him in his favour 
and visited him 
that he might show him the prosperity [of] his [cho]sen ones, 
making him re[joice in the gladness of his nation] 
(cf. Ps. cvi, 2,4-5).
 I [And] he made for you a man w[ho ... ] 
for he is the one [whose] words they kept 
which are for al the sons of Israel... 
... your hand wi l [not] save you, 
for the strength of [your] God does good. 
And those (fi led with) wicked hatred, 
how long wil you delight to do evil? ... 
vacat 
Psalm of Obadiah. 
God... truth is in it, and his loving kindness ...
 ... mountains and hi ls... 
Fr. 2
 Al who are founded on it wil shake... 
[and they wi l cry to] the Lord in their distress. 
From their oppression 
He wil deliver them, 
For the Lord is gracious to the pious... 
To the man...
 4Q381, fr. I
 ... [his wisdom] I have declared, 
and I wi l meditate on his marvel, 
and it wi l become my teacher. 
Judgement... of my mouth, 
and to the simple and they wi l understand, 
and to the senseless and they wi l know. 
O Lord, how mi[ghty] ... marvels 
He made heaven and earth in his days (?), 
and by his word ... the riverbeds 
He... 
night and st[a]rs and constelations... 
and He caused them to shine ... 
[every] tree and every fru[it of the vineyar]d 
and every produce of the field. 
And according to his words... al... 
m[ankind] and by his spirit he established them 
to have dominion over al this, 
over the ground and al [its produce(?)] 
from new moon to new moon, from festival to festival, 
from day to day to eat its fruit, fruit of ... 
... and birds and al that belongs to them 
to eat the best of everything and also... 
... in them and al his hosts and His ange[ls] ... 
to serve man and to minister to him...
 Fr. 15
 ... Thou wilt turn my heart ... 
[Turn to me and take pity on me; 
give thy strength to Thy servant] 
and save the son of Thy handmaid. 
Show me [a sign of Thy favour, 
that those who hate me may see and be put to shame 
because Thou,] my [G]od, hast helped me (Ps. lxxxvi, 16-17) 
and I wi l prepare (a sacrifice) for Thee, my God. 
... [Thou dost rule the rag]ing of the sea; 
Thou sti lest its waves. 
[Thou didst crush Rahab like a carcass, 
Thou didst scatter Thine enemies with Thy mighty arm] 
(Ps. lxxxix, 10-11). 
[The world and] al that is in it, Thou hast founded them 
(ibid. 12). 
Thou hast a [mighty] arm; strong is Thy hand, 
high Thy right hand (ibid. 14) 
[For who in the skies can be compared to thee,] my God? 
And who among the sons of ‘gods’ 
and in al [the council of the holy ones? ... 
... For Thou] art the glory of its majesty. 
As for me, Thine anointed one, I have understood... 
[I wi l make] thee [know]n, for Thou hast made me know; 
I wi l have insight, for Thou hast given me insight... 
For on Thy name, my God, we shal cal, 
and [we shal wait] for Thy salvation. 
And they wil put it on like a garment 
and like a dress...
 Fr. 17
 ...In splendour Thou wilt look on Judah and... 
My God, Thou wilt swalow them up 
And [fire] wi l de[vour them] ...
 Fr. 24
 ... Psalm of the Man of God. 
Lord, God ... 
He has redeemed Judah from al distress 
and from Ephraim... 
... generation. 
Those who have passed his test wil praise him 
and say, ‘Arise [O God’] ... 
Thy name is my salvation, 
my rock, my fortress and [my] refuge [is my God] (Ps. xviii, 3). 
On the day of... I wi l cal on the Lord and he wil answer me, 
my help... those who hate me. 
And he wil say,... 
[My c]ry be[fore him] comes to his ears (Ps. xviii, 7) 
[From his temple he wil hear my] voi[ce]. 
[And] the earth wi l [re]el [and rock, 
and the foundations of the mountains tremble... for he is 
angry. 
Smoke went up from his nostrils (Ps. xviii, 7-9) ...
 Fr. 31
 ... in the net which they have concealed ... 
I wi l sing to ... 
I wi l meditate over Thy wonders 
for to ... before Thee... 
Thou dost save me and lift me up from the tents of death 
... before a l ... 
Al its ways come to ... 
In a holy place ... [Selah.] vacat 
... [Prayer of... k]ing of Judah. 
Hear o [my] Go[d] ... 
I wi l recount before those who fear Thee... 
Who can understand Thy [th]oughts? 
For my oppressors have increased before Thee. 
Thou hast known them 
and Thou hast subdued the enemies of my soul before 
Thine e[yes]. 
For I wi l live ... 
[and] Thou shalt [not] conceal my iniquity to those with 
understanding. 
Thou shalt slay them (the enemies) O God of my salvation. 
The days of my existence are treasured up. 
What can a man say (but) ‘Here I am’ ? 
And how [dost Thou deliver] to the sword 
those who wait for me, 
those who say... on the day of wrath? 
They have woven a crown for my head. 
For their glory is a splendid pi lar... 
... from the Book of li[fe]. 
Those who frighten me wil be cut off 
And my enemies wil finish ... 
... a song and thanksgiving ...
 Fr. 33
 ... Rise [above the heaven]s, O Lord, 
and [my] God ... 
And let us glory in Thy might 
for [Thy wonders] are inscrutable 
... Thou shalt place me 
and Thy chastisement wi l be my [joy]. 
... everlasting and to extol. Thee. 
For my sins have become too many for me... 
But Thou, my God, shalt send Thy spi[rit] 
[and Thy mercy] 
to the son of Thy handmaid 
and Thy loving-kindness to the servant who is near Thee ... 
I wi l exult and rejoice in Thee before those who fear [Thee], 
for [Thou shalt judge] Thy servants in Thy righteousness, 
and according to Thy loving-kindness 
... to save ... to thee. Selah. 
vacat 
Prayer of Manasseh, King of Judah when the King of Assyria 
gaoled him. 
... [my G]od ... my salvation is near in Thine eyes ... 
I wait for Thy delivering presence, 
and I feel faint before Thee because of my s[in]. 
For [Thou hast] enlarged [Thy mercies(?)], 
and I have multiplied guilt. 
And thus ... 
from eternal joy 
and my soul shal not see goodness ... 
He has lifted me up on high 
above a nation ... 
And I did not remember thee [in Thy plac]e of h[oliness]; 
I did not serve [Thee] ...
Fr. 45
 ... I wi l make understand .... - - . : 
I fear Thee and wil cleanse myself 
Of abominations known to me. 
I give my soul to be humbled before Thee. 
They have multiplied sin 
And they plot against me to imprison me. 
But I have trusted Thee ... 
And do not judge me, my God, ... 
Those who conspire against me 
Let loose their lying tongue ...
 Fr. 46
 ... [f]ools. 
... Thy precepts and Thy splendour and Thy beauty ... 
and like clouds they spread over the fa[ce] of the earth. 
They wi l be scattered greatly until ... 
Man wil not be strong and wil not rise 
... [and] Thou hast [t]ested a l. 
And the elect, like offerings, Thou wilt purify before Thee, 
but the hated ones Thou wilt reject like impurity. 
And a stormy wind ... their [p]ractice. 
And those who fear Thee shal be before Thee always. 
(Their) horns are horns made of iron to gore many, 
and they wi l gore ... 
And Thou wilt make their hoofs of bronze 
but sinners like dung shal be trampled upon the ground ...
 Fr. 69
 ... When he saw that the peoples [of the la]nd behaved 
abominably, 
... a l the land (turned) who ly into impure uncleanness, 
and from the beginning marvelously ... he consulted his heart 
to destroy them from it (the land) and make on it a 
[holy(?)] people. 
... in you and he gave you through his spirit prophets 
to instruct and teach you ... 
... your [God(?)] descended from heaven and spoke to you 
to instruct you and bring you back 
from the works of the inhabitants [of the land]. 
... [pre]cepts, laws and commandments 
he established through a covenant by the hand [of Moses]. 
... dwelt (?) on the land. Then it wi l be cleansed and ... 
... to consider you whether you wi l be his. 
And if [not,] ... 
And to breach the covenant which he made with you 
and to become a stranger and not ... 
... over wickedness and to change the words of his mouth ...
 Frs. 76-7
 ... [the congregati]on of the Holy of Holies 
and the lot of the King of Kings ... 
... my words and they wi l consider the wisdom 
which is issued from my mouth. 
... and a true judge and faithful witness. 
Is there strength in you to answer Him ... 
... to hear. 
... Who among you wil answer and stand up against his 
rebuke? ... 
... For you have many judges and countless (hostile) witnesses. 
But ... the Lord wi l sit in judgement against you, 
judging truly and without injustice ... 
... his spirits to pronounce on you true judgements. 
Is there understanding for you to learn ... ? 
... Lord of lords, mighty and marvelous and none is like him. 
He has chosen y[ou instead of power]ful [peoples] 
and great nations to be his people to rule over al ... 
... [hea]ven and earth 
and as the highest above al the nations of the earth ...
Lamentations
 (4Q]179,4Q501)
 Several fragments of a poem inspired by the biblical Book of
 Lamentations have been preserved in Cave 4 (4Q179). Only fragment
 2 offers a text long enough for inteligible translation. See J. M. A legro
 and A. A. Anderson, DJD, V, 75-7; cf. J. Strugnel, RQ 7 (1970), 250
52. A second work of a similar nature (4Q501) has appeared in M.
 Bai let, DJD, VI, 79-80. Both texts are dated to the second half of the
 first century BCE.
 4Q179, fr. 2
 [How] solitary [lies] the city, 
the princess of al the peoples is desolate 
like a forsaken woman; 
and al her [daughters are forsak[en] 
[like] a forsaken woman, 
like a woman hurt and forsaken 
by her [husband]. 
Al her palaces and [her] wal[ls] are 
like a barren woman; 
and like a sheltered woman 
are al [her] paths; 
[a l her] ... 
like a woman of bitterness, 
and al her daughters are like women 
mourning for [their] hus[bands]; 
[a l her] ... like women 
deprived of their only children. 
Weep, weep, Jer[usalem] 
[her tears flow] upon her cheeks 
because of her sons ...
 4Q501
 Give not our inheritance to strangers, 
nor our (hard-earned) property to foreigners. 
Remember that we are [the forsaken] of Thy people 
and the forsaken of Thine inheritance. 
Remember the desolate children of Thy Covenant... 
T[hy] freely devoted ... ; 
they err with no one to bring them back; 
they are broken with none to bind them; 
[they are bent down with none to ra]ise them up. 
The damned of Thy people have surrounded me 
with their lying tongues. 
They have been turned ... 
and Thy boughs to the progeny of a woman. 
Look and see the shame of the sons of [Thy people (?), 
for] our skin [is burning] 
and feverish heat has seized us 
because of their reviling tongue.
Songs for the Holocaust of the Sabbath
 (4Q400—407, 11Q17, Masada 1039-200)
 Fragments of a document concerned with heavenly worship were first
 published by J. Strugnel under the title ‘The Angelic Liturgy’, Congress
 Volume Oxford, Supplements to Vetus Testamentum, VI (Leiden,
 1960), 318-45. The ful material, viz. eight very damaged manuscripts
 from Cave 4 (4Q400-407), smal fragments from Cave 11 (11Q17)
 and a large fragment from Masada (1039-200), was subsequently
 edited by Carol Newsom in DJD, XI, 173-401. For 11Q17 see F.
 García Martinez et al., DJD, XX I, 259-304.
 From the point of view of palaeography al the manuscripts are
 dated to the first century BCE, with the exception of the Masada
 fragment, which belongs to the first half of the first century CE. The
 songs contain angelic praises of God assigned to the first thirteen
 sabbaths, i.e. the first quarter of the solar year. They imply the
 simultaneity of heavenly and earthly worship. Although often obscure,
 the poems depict the celestial sanctuary, the throne-chariot, and the
 various groups participating in the angelic liturgy; they also include the
 words of the benedictions sung by the seven archangels.
 The main source of inspiration is the Book of Ezekiel, especialy
 chapters i and x in connection with the throne-chariot and xl-xlviii for the
 heavenly sanctuary.
 The songs include nothing that can be dated. On the basis of the
 script and on general grounds the composition is said to belong to the
 first century BCE.
 The Merkabah, or divine throne-chariot, was a central subject in
 ancient and medieval Jewish esotericism and mysticism. Hence this
 early post-biblical manifestation of the speculation is of considerable
 historical importance for the study of the so-ca led Merkabahmysticism
 and of the Hekhaloth (‘heavenly palaces’) literature. It is noteworthy
that the Mishnah prohibits the use of Ezekiel’s passage about the
 chariot as a prophetic reading in synagogue (Megi lah IV, 10) or even
 its discussion in private, unless with a sage already familiar with the
 subject (Hagigah 11, 1).
 The presence of this Qumran document in the fortress of Masada is
 best explained by assuming either that a number of Essenes joined
 the revolutionaries and took with them some of their manuscripts, or
 that the rebels occupied the Qumran area after its evacuation by the
 Community and later transferred some Essene manuscripts to their
 final place of resistance.
 4Q400 fr. I i
 [To the Master. Song of the holocaust of the] first [Sabba]th, on the
 fourth of the first month.
 Praise [the God of ... ] the ‘gods’ (= elohim) of supreme holiness; in
 [his] divine [kingship, rejoice. For he has established] supreme
 holiness among the everlastingly holy, the Holy of Holies, to be for him
 the priests of [the inner Temple in his royal sanctuary], ministers of the
 Presence in his glorious innermost Temple chamber. In the
 congregation of al the gods (= elim) of [knowledge, and in the
 congregation of al the ‘gods’ of] God, he engraved his precepts for al
 the spiritual works, and [his glorious] judgements [for al who lay the
 foundations of] knowledge, the people (endowed with) his glorious
 understanding, the ‘gods’ who are close to knowledge ... of eternity
 and from the fountain of holiness to the sanctuary of supreme [holiness]
 ... prie[sts] of the inner Temple, ministers of the Presence of the [most]
 holy King ... his glory. They shal grow in strength decree by decree to
 be seven [eternal councils. For he fo]unded them [for] himself as the
 most [holy, who minister in the h]oly of holies ... do not endure [those
 who per]vert the way. There is [n]othing impure in their sanctuaries. He
 engraved for them [precepts relating to ho]ly gifts; by them, al the
 everlastingly holy shal sanctify themselves. He shal purify the
 [luminously] pure [to repa]y al those who render their way crooked.
Their expiations shal obtain his goodwi l for al those who repent from
 sin... knowledge among the priests of the inner Temple, and from their
 mouth (proceed) the teachings of the holy with the judgements of [his
 glory] ... his [gra]ces for everlasting merciful forgiveness. In his zealous
 vengeance ... he has established for himself as priests of the inner
 Temple, the most holy ... of gods, the priests of the highest heights who
 are near [to] ...
 4Q4002 (4Q401, fr. 14, 7-8)
 ... wonderfuly to extol Thy glory among the divine beings of knowledge,
 and the praises of Thy kingship among the most ho[ly]. More
 wonderfuly than ‘gods’ and men they are glorified amid al the camps
 of the ‘gods’ and feared by companies of men. They recount his royal
 majesty according to their knowledge and exalt [his glory in al] his
 royal heavens. In al the highest heights [they shal sing] marvelous
 psalms according to al [their understanding, and the glorious
 splendour] of the King of the ‘gods’ they shal recount on their stations
 ... for what shal we be counted among them? For what shal our
 priesthood be counted in their dwelings? [How shal our] ho[liness
 compare with their supreme] holiness? How does the offering of our
 tongue of dust compare with the knowledge of the divine [beings] ...
 our jubilation. Let us extol the God of knowledge ... Holy of Holies and
 His understanding is above al those who possess knowledge ...
 4Q402, fr. 4, 9-10
 ... ‘gods’ run to his visitation and the voice of a crowd ... of ‘gods’ in the
 war of heaven. And it wi l be ...
4Q402 4, 11-15=MASADA FRAGMENT 1, 1-7
 ... wonderful new works. A l these he has done wonder[fuly with al the
 eterna ly hidden things] ... a l the words of knowledge; for from the God
 of knowledge (comes) al that exists for ever, [and from] his [plan]s
 (come) al the eternaly appointed. He produces the former things in
 their appointed times, and the latter things in their seasons. None
 among those who know the [wonderfuly] revealed things can
 comprehend them before he makes them. When he makes them, none
 of [the doers of righteous]ness can understand his plan, for they are his
 glorious works. Before they come into being, (they derive) [from] his
 [pla]n.
 [For the Master. So]ng of the holocaust of the sixth Sabbath on the
 ninth of the [second] month.
 [Praise the G]od of gods, you inhabitants of the highest heights...
 [h]oly of holies and exalt his glory ... [kn]owledge of the everlasting
 gods ...
 4Q403 1, i, 1-29 (4Q404-5)=MASADA FRAGMENT
 1039-200
 [Psalm of exaltation (uttered) by the tongue] of the third of the
 sovereign Princes, an exaltation ... He shal exalt the God of the angels
 on high seven times with seven wonderful exaltations.
 Psalm of praise (uttered) by the tongue of the four[th] to the Mighty
 One above al the [gods], seven wonderful mighty deeds. He shal
 praise the God of mighty deeds seven times with seven words of
 [marvelous] prais[e].
 Psalm of thanksgiving (uttered) by the tongue of the fifth to the
 [K]in[g] of glory with its seven wonderful thanksgivings. He shal thank
 the God of glory se[ven times with se]v[en wor]ds of wonderful
 thanksgivings.
 [Psalm of] exultation (uttered) by the tongue of the sixth to [the] God
of goodness with its seven [wonderful] exultations. He shal exult before
 the Ki[ng of] goodness seven times with sev[en words of] wonderful
 exultation.
 Psalm of [singing (uttered) by the t] ongue of the seventh of the
 [sovereign] Prin[ces], a powerful song [to the Go]d of ho[liness] with its
 se[ven] marvelous [songs]. He shal sing [to] the Kin[g of ho]liness
 seven times with [seven w]ords of [wonderful] so[ngs; sev]en psa[lms
 (singing) his blessings; sev]en [psalm]s of magnification of [his
 righteousness; seven psalms] of exaltation of [his] kingshi[p; seven]
 psalms of [praises of his glory; sev]en p[salms of thanksgivings for his
 marvelous deeds]; [seven psalms of ex]ul[tation of] his power; seven
 [psalms singin]g his holiness; ... [seven times with seven wonderful
 words, words of exaltation of the Sovereign Princes.]
 In the glo[ri]ous name of God, [the first of] the sov[erei]gn Princes
 sha[l bless] al the ... [with seven wonderful words blessing al] their
 [councils] in [his holy] sanctuary [with sev]en wonderful wo[rd]s, [and he
 shal bless those who kn]ow the everlasting things.
 [In the name of] his truth, [the second of the sovereign Princes shal
 bless] al [their] sta[tions with] se[ven] wonderful word[s and he shal
 bless with] seven [wonderful] words. [He shal bless al those who exalt
 the] King with seven g[lor]iou[s] w[ords of his] marvels, [a l the] eterna ly
 pure.
 [In the name of] his exalted kingship, the third [of the sovereign
 Princes shal bless al who are lif]ted up [in kn]owledge with se[ven
 w]ords of exal[ta]tion ... [of his true kn]ow[ledge], he shal bless with
 seven marvelous words; and he shal bless al [who are destined] for
 righteousness [with seven] wonderful [w]ords.
 In the name of the King’s majesty, [the fourth] of the [sovereign]
 Princes shal bless with seven [majestic] words [al who] walk
 [up]rightly. He sha l bless al the gods [close to] true knowledge [with
 seve]n righteous words (for gaining) [his gl]o[rious] favours.
 In the name of [the majesty] of his marvelous deeds, the fifth
 [sovereign] Prince sha l bless with seven [words] of his exalted truth [al
 who] ... purity. [He shal bless] al who eagerly do his wi l with seven
 [marvelous words. And he shal bless] al who confess him with seven
 majestic [wor]ds that they may thank [him for ever].
In the name of [the mighty deeds of] the gods the sixth sovereign
 Prince shal bless with seven words of his marvelous mighty deeds al
 who are mighty in wisdom. He shal bless al the perfect of way with
 seven marvelous words to be in attendance for [ever]. He shal bless
 al who wait for him with seven marvelous words that they may obtain
 the return of his [gracious] favours.
 In the name of his holiness, the seventh of the sovereign Princes
 shal bless with seven words of his marvelous holiness al the holy
 founders of kno[wledge. He shal bless] al who exalt his statutes with
 sev[en] marvelous [wo]rds (which shal be for them) stout shields. He
 shal bless al [who are destined for] righteousness [and always]
 forever [pra]ise his glorious kingship with seven [marve lous words] for
 everlasting peace.
 In [the name of his holiness] al the [sovereign] Princes [shal bless
 together] the God of the divine beings [in] al their sevenfold
 t[estimonies]. They sha l bless those destined for righteousness and al
 the blessed... the eter[na]l[y ble]ssed for them.
 Blessed be [the] Lo[r]d, the Kin[g of] al, who is above al blessing
 and p[raise. He shal bless al the holy] who bless [him and proclaim
 him righ]te[ous] in the name of his glory. [And he shal b]less al who
 are blessed for ever.
 4Q403 I, i, 30-46 (4Q405)
 For the Master. Song of the holocaust of the seventh Sabbath on the
 sixteenth of the month.
 Praise the most high God, O you high among al the gods of
 knowledge. Let the holy ones of the ‘gods’ sanctify the King of glory,
 who sanctifies by his holiness al his holy ones.
 O Princes of the praises of al the ‘gods’, praise the God of majestic
 praises,
 For in the splendour of praises is the glory of His kingship.
 In it are (contained) the praises of al the ‘gods’ together with the
splendour of al [His] king[ship].
 Exalt His exaltation on high, O ‘gods’, above the gods on high, and
 His glorious divinity above a l the highest heights.
 For He [is the God of gods], of al the Princes on high, and the King
 of king[s] of a l the eternal councils.
 By a discerning goodwil (expressed by) the words of His mouth a[l
 the gods on high] come into being, at the opening of His lips, al the
 eternal spirits, by His discerning goodwi l, al His creatures in their
 undertakings.
 Exult, O you who exult [in his knowledge, with] an exultation among
 the wonderful ‘gods’;
 utter His glory with the tongue of al who utter knowledge;
 may His wonderful exultation be in the mouth of al who utter [His
 knowledge].
 [For He] is the God of al who exult in everlasting knowledge,
 and the Judge through His might of al the spirits of understanding.
 Celebrate O al celebrating gods, the King of majesty, for al the
 gods of knowledge celebrate His glory,
 and al the spirits of righteousness celebrate His truth, and seek
 acceptance of their knowledge by the judgements of His mouth,
 and of their celebrations when His mighty hand executes (?)
 judgements of reward.
 Sing to the God of power with an offering of the princely spirit, a
 song of divine joy,
 and a jubilation among al the holy, a wonderful song for eter[nal]
 rejoicing.
 With these al the f[oundations of the hol]y of holies shal praise,
 the pi lars bearing the highest abode, and al the corners of its
 structure.
 Sing to the Go[d who is a]wesome in strength ...
 to extol together the splendid firmament, the supreme purity of [His]
 holy sanctuary.
 [Praise] Him, O divine spirits, prai[sing for ever and] ever the
 firmament of the highest heavens,
 al ... and its wals, a[l]l its [structure, its shape.
 [The spi]rits of the hol[y] of holies, the living ‘gods’, [the spir]its of
[et]ernal holiness above a l the holy [ones];
 ... marve lous marvel, majesty and beauty and marvel.
 [Gl]ory is in the perfect light of knowledge ... in al the marvelous
 sanctuaries.
 The divine spirits surround the dweling of the King of truth and
 righteousness; a l its wals ...
 4Q403 I, i, 6-29
 ... and from among them run ‘gods’ with the appearance of coals of
 [fire] ... walking round about, most holy spirits ... Holy of Holies, divine
 spirits, ever(lasting] appearances ... and divine spirits, forms of flaming
 fire round about it ... wonderful spirits. And the chief dweling on high,
 the glory of His kingdom, the innermost sanctuary ... And He
 consecrates the seven elevated holy places. And a voice of blessing
 (comes) from the chiefs of His innermost sanctuary ... And a glorious
 voice of blessing ... is heard by God (the ‘gods’) and the foundations ...
 of blessing. And al the ornaments of the innermost sanctuary burst into
 wonderful prayers in the innermost sanctuary ... of wonder, one
 innermost sanctuary to another, by the voice of holy crowds, and al
 their ornaments ... And the chariots of His innermost sanctuary wi l utter
 praises together and their cherubim and wheels wi l bless wonderfuly
 the chiefs of the ‘godly’ figure and wi l bless Him in the holy innermost
 sanctuary. vacat
 For the Master. Song of the holocaust for the eighth Sabbath on the
 tw[enty]-third [of the second month].
 [Praise the God of al the highest heights, al the holy ones for ever]
 and ever,
 they who are second among the priests of the inner Temple, the
 second council in the wonderful dweling, with seven words of ...
 eterna ly.
 Extol Him, O sovereign Princes, in his marvelous portion, praise
 [the God of gods, O you seven priesthoods of His inner Temple].
 ... height, the seven wonderful domains by the precept concerning
His sanctuaries.
 The sovereign Princes of the [wonderful] priest[hood] ... the seven
 priest[hoods] in the wonderful sanctuary for seven councils of holiness
 ... the Prince, the angels of the King in the wonderful dwelings. The
 knowledge of their understanding is for seven ... Prince from the priest
 of the inner Temple. The Princes of the congregation of the King in the
 assembly of ... and praises of exaltation to the King of glory and a
 tower of ... for the God of gods, the King of purity. The offering of their
 tongues ... the seven mysteries of knowledge in the wonderful mystery
 of the seven domains [of] the Ho[ly of holies] ... [The tongue of the first
 shal be seven times stronger than the tongue of the second; the
 tongue of the second shal be] seven times [stronger] than that of the
 third; [the to]ngue of the thi[rd sha l be] seven tim[es] stronger [than that
 of the fourth; the tongue of the fourth shal be seven times stronger than
 the tongue of the fifth; the tongue of the fifth shal be seven times
 stronger than the tongue of] the sixth; the tongu[e of the sixth shal be
 seven times stronger than the] t[ongue of the seventh]; the tongue of
 the seventh shal be [seven times] stronger [than the tongue of the
 eighth] ...
 4Q405 14-15, i
 ... tongue of blessing from the likeness [of the gods] issues a [v]oice of
 blessing for the King of those who exalt, and their wonderful praise is
 for the God of gods ... their many-coloured ... and they sing ... the
 vestibules by which they enter, the spirits of the most holy inner Temple
 ... [And the likene]ss of the living ‘gods’ is engraved on the vestibules
 by which the King enters, luminous spiritual figures ... [K]ing, figures of
 a glorious l[ight, wonderful] spirits; [amo]ng the spirits of splendour
 there are works of (art of) marvelous colours, figures of the living
 ‘gods’ ... [in the] glorious innermost Temple chambers, the structure of
 [the most ho]ly [sanctuary] in the innermost chambers of the King,
 design[s of ‘go] ds’ ... likeness of ... most holy ... [the Temple]
 chambers of the Ki[ng] ... figur[es of the ‘g]o[ds’ and from] the likeness
... of the Holy of Holies ...
 4Q405 19 ABCD (IQ17 v i, 5-6)
 The figures of the ‘gods’ shal praise Him, [the most] h[oly] spirits ... of
 glory; the floor of the marvelous innermost chambers, the spirits of the
 eternal gods, al ... fi[gures of the innermost] chamber of the King, the
 spiritual works of the marvelous firmament are purified with salt,
 [spi]rits of knowledge, truth [and] righteousness in the holy of [holies,
 [f]orms of the living ‘gods’, forms of the i luminating spirits. A l their
 [works (of art)] are marvelously linked, many-coloured [spirits], artistic
 figures of the ‘gods’, engraved al around their glorious bricks, glorious
 figures on b[ri]cks of splendour and majes[ty]. A l their works (of art)
 are living ‘gods’, and their artistic figures are holy angels. From
 beneath the marvelous inner[most chambers] comes a sound of quiet
 silence: the ‘gods’ bless ... the King ...
 4Q405 20 i, 21—2
 ... His glorious chariots. When they go ... they do not turn aside ... but
 advance straight ...
 For the Mas[ter. Song of the holocaust of] the twelfth [S]abbath [on
 the twenty-first of the third month.]
 [Praise the God of... w]onder, and exalt Him ... of glory in the te[nt of
 the God of] knowledge. The [cheru]bim prostrate themselves before
 Him and bless. As they rise, a whispered divine voice [is heard], and
 there is a roar of praise. When they drop their wings, there is a
 [whispere] d divine voice. The cherubim bless the image of the throne
chariot above the firmament, [and] they praise [the majes]ty of the
 luminous firmament beneath His seat of glory. When the wheels
 advance, angels of holiness come and go. From between His glorious
 wheels, there is as it were a fiery vision of most holy spirits. About
them, the appearance of rivulets of fire in the likeness of gleaming
 brass, and a work of ... radiance in many-coloured glory, marvelous
 pigments, clearly mingled. The spirits of the living ‘gods’ move
 perpetua ly with the glory of the marvelous chariot(s). The whispered
 voice of blessing accompanies the roar of their advance, and they
 praise the Holy One on their way of return. When they ascend, they
 ascend marvelously and when they settle, they stand sti l. The sound of
 joyful praise is silenced and there is a whispered blessing of the ‘gods’
 in al the camps of God. And the sound of praise ... from among al
 their divisions ... and a l their numbered ones praise, each in his turn.
 4Q405 23 i
 ... his whole-offering. The ‘gods’ praise Him [when they take] up their
 station, and al the s[pirits of] the clear firm[am]ent rejoice in His glory.
 A sound of blessing (is heard) from al His divisions speaking of the
 firmaments of His glory, and His gates praise with a resounding voice.
 When the gods of knowledge enter by the doors of glory, and when the
 holy angels depart towards their realm, the entrance doors and the
 gates of exit proclaim the glory of the King, blessing and praising al
 the spirits of God when they depart and enter by the gates. None
 among them skips over a precept, nor do they ... against the saying of
 the King ... They run not away from the path, nor slip away from His
 domain. They are neither too high for His commission nor too lowly.
 For He shal be compassionate in the realm of His furious, destr[oying
 ange]r; He wi l not judge in the provinces of His glorious wrath. The fear
 of the King of ‘gods’ is awe-inspiring to [al]l the ‘gods’, [and they
 undertake] al His commissions by virtue of His true order, and they go
 ...
 4Q405 23 i
... At their marve lous stations are spirits, many-coloured like the work
 of a weaver, splendid engraved figures. In the midst of a glorious
 appearance of scarlet, colours of the most holy spiritual light, they hold
 to their holy station before [the K]ing, spirits of [pure] colours in the
 midst of an appearance of whiteness. The likeness of the glorious
 spirit is like a work (of art) of sparkling fine gold. A l their pattern is
 clearly mingled like the work (of art) of a weaver. These are the
 Princes of those marvelously clothed for service, the Princes of the
 kingdom, the kingdom of the holy ones of the King of holiness in al the
 heights of the sanctuaries of His glorious kingdom. The Princes in
 charge of offerings have tongues of knowledge, [and] they bless the
 God of knowledge among al His glorious works ...
 IQ17 v i
 ... their [mar]ve lous marvels by the power of the God of [eter]nity; and
 they shal exalt the mighty deeds of the G[od] ... From the four
 foundations of the marvelous firmament they shal pr[oclaim]
 soundlessly (?) a divine oracle ... wal. They bless and praise the God
 of gods ...
Poetic Fragments on Jerusalem and ‘King’
 Jonathan
 (4Q448 )
 Written in a very difficult semi-cursive script, this text has been
 bri liantly deciphered by Ada Yardeni and edited by Esther and Hanan
 Eshel.
 The top part of the fragment, or column A, preserving the first two or
 three words of ten lines, is an unknown Haleluiah psalm. However, the
 last three lines have been identified by E. Eshel, as wel as by M.
 Kister, as belonging to the last verses of Psalm 154, included in the
 Psalms Scrol from 11Q, and partly reconstructed from the Syriac (cf.
 J. A. Sanders, DJD, IV, col. XV I, lines 14-16), and ending with an
 alusion to God’s presence in Zion-Jerusalem (cf. p. 307).
 Column B, with its nine lines, is complete. It opens with a reference
 to the ‘Holy City’, associated with ‘King’ Jonathan, but the main theme
 appears to be a blessing of God’s kingdom and name on behalf of the
 entire people of Israel. Note that Column A also ends with a mention of
 Zion-Jerusalem.
 Column C, with the second half of each of its nine lines missing, also
 mentions Israel, together with God’s name and kingdom, as wel as
 what seems to be ‘the day of war’. The editors believe that they can
 read ‘Jonathan’ in line 8, but this is far from certain.
 4Q448 is a unique and significant Qumran text of historical
 importance. The editors assume that King Jonathan is Alexander
 Jannaeus or Yannai, i.e. a Hasmonaean ruler who, as a general rule, is
 presumed by scholars to have been hostile to the Qumran Community.
 They conjecture, therefore, that 4Q448 is not a sectarian composition. I
 prefer, by contrast, to identify ‘King’ Jonathan as Jonathan
 Maccabaeus at the start of his political-military career, when he was
 celebrated as the liberator of the Jews and of Jerusalem, and link this
text to the statement of the Habakkuk Commentary in V I, 8-9,
 concerning the good behaviour ‘when he first arose’ of the ruler who
 was to become the Wicked Priest. The identification of ‘King
 Jonathan’ with Jonathan Maccabaeus proposed by me is shared also
 by E. Puech. The name ‘Jonathan’ appears without context on a badly
 damaged fragment designated 4Q523; see E. Puech, DJD, XXV, 75
83. The script is dated to 150-125 BCE, which would suggest that the
 person in question is the Maccabee brother rather than Alexander
 Jannaeus (103-76 BCE).
 For the editio princeps, see Esther Eshel, Hanan Eshel and Ada
 Yardeni, DJD, XI, 403-25; see also G. Vermes, ‘The So-caled King
 Jonathan Fragment (4Q448)’, JJS 44 (1993), 294-300.
 Column A
 Haleluiah. Psal[m ... ] Thou hast loved as a father ... Thou hast acted
 as a prince over ... vacat And those who ha[te Thee... ] fear ... The
 many announce... fear ... And for those who are perfect... [Behold the
 eyes of the Lord have compassion on the good, and His mercy] is
 [great] over those who glorify Him. [From an evil time He saves their
 soul. He redeems] the poor from the hand of oppressors, [and delivers
 the perfect from the hand of the wicked. He desires] his tabernacle in
 Zion, (and) ch[ooses Jerusalem for ever].
 Column B
 Holy City for King Jonathan and for al the congregation of Thy people
 Israel, who are in the four corners of heaven. May the peace of them al
 be on Thy kingdom! May Thy name be blessed.
Column C
 I wi l ... [in] Thy love ... during the day and until the evening... to draw
 near to be ... to visit them for a blessing... on Thy name which is
 invoked ... kingdom to be blessed... [o]n t[he] day war... to King
 Jonathan (?) ...
Hymn of Glorification A and B
 (4Q491, fr. 11—4Q471b)
 Two different versions of the same poem have been preserved. The
 first was origina ly thought to be part of the War Scrol (Ma, 4Q491, fr.
 11) and was identified as ‘The Song of Michael and the Just’ by its
 editor, M. Bai let. The editor of the second text, Esther Eshel, proposes
 the more likely interpretation that the speaker of the hymn is the
 eschatological high priest, first humiliated by his opponents before
 sharing the glory of the ‘gods’ or ‘holy ones’. The troubled career of the
 last priest is also a luded to in the Aramaic Testament of Levi (4Q541,
 fr. 9).
 For the editio princeps, see M. Bai let, DJD, VI, 26-30 (4Q491) and
 E. Eshel, DJD,XXI, 421-32 (4Q471b).
 Glorification Hymn A (4Q491, fr. 11)
 ... the righ[teo]us exult [in the streng]th of His might and the holy ones
 rejoice in ... in righteousness ... He has established it in Israel
 Since ancient times His truth and the mysteries of His wisdom (have
 been) in al[l] ... power
 ... and the council of the poor into an eternal congregation
 ... the perfect... [et]ernity a throne of strength in the congregation of
 ‘gods’ so that not a single king of old shal sit on it, neither shal their
 noble men...
 My glory is incomparable, and apart from me none is exalted.
 None shal come to me for I dwel in ... in heaven, and there is no...
 I am reckoned with the ‘gods’ and my dweling-place is in the
 congregation of holiness.
[My] des[ire] is not according to the flesh, [and] al that I value is in the
 glory of... [... the pl]ace of holiness.
 Who is counted despicable on my account, and who is comparable to
 me in my glory?
 Who is like... the young (?) like me?
 Is there a companion who resembles me? There is none!
 I have been taught and no instruction resembles [my instruction] ...
 Who shal attack me when [I] op[en my mouth]? And who can contain
 the issue of my lips?
 Who shal summon me to be destroyed by my judgement? ...
 [F]or I am reckoned with the ‘gods’, and my glory is with the sons of the
 King.
 No pure gold or gold of Ophir ...
 Glorification Hymn B
 (4Q471b)
 I am reckoned with the ‘gods’ and my dweling-place is in the
 congregation of holiness.
 Who is counted as me to be despised and who is despised as me?
 And who is like me, forsaken [by men (Isa. liii, 3), and is there] a
 companion who resembles me?
 And no instruction resembles my instruction. [For] I sit...
 Who is like me among the ‘gods’?
 [And who shal attack me when I open my mouth]?
 And who can contain the issue of my lips?
 And who [shal summon me to be destroyed by my judgement]?
 [For I am] the beloved of the King and the friend of the ho[ly ones].
 [No-one] ... and no-one is comparable [to my glory].
 For I [have my station with the ‘gods’, and my glory is with the sons of
 the King].
I wi l not be cr[owned with pure gold nor with the gold of Ophir] ... Sing...
C. Calendars, Liturgies and Prayers
‘Phases of the Moon’, Israel Antiquities Authority
Calendars of Priestly Courses
 (4Q320-30, 337)
 Twelve fragmentary manuscripts from Cave 4, palaeographicaly dated
 to the late second century BCE, present in various forms the peculiar
 ‘solar’ calendar - constructed in six-year sequences - of the Qumran
 Community. Their year consisted of twelve months of thirty days each,
 plus four extra days added to each of the four seasons (cf. above, pp.
 78-9). Some documents from 4Q (320 and 321) attempt to combine
 this calendar with the various priestly courses which served in turn in
 the Temple for a week at a time from one sabbath to the folowing
 Friday. They also combine it with the dates of the ful moon given
 according to the days of the week of duty of the priestly course, the
 date of the solar month and the equivalent date of the lunar calendar of
 mainstream Judaism (a year of twelve months of 29 or 30 days = 354
 days). E.g. (The ful moon fals): ‘On the 5th (day) in the week of
 Jedaiah, corresponding to the 29th day of the lunar month, which fals
 on the 30th day of the 1st solar month.’ 4Q321 records in addition the
 occurrence of the New Moon. E.g. ‘And the New Moon is on the third
 day in the week of Mijamin which is on the twelfth day in the eighth
 month.’ An alternative interpretation suggests that the term in question
 (duqah) designates the day after the ful moon. 4Q321a is very
 fragmentary, but it seems almost identical to 4Q321.
 For the editio princeps, see S. Talmon with J. Ben-Dov, DJD, XXI,
 1-156.
 The folowing table wil help readers understand the relationship
 between the priestly courses on weekly duty, the ‘solar’ dates, the
 moon’s phases and the feast-days faling in the month in question.
 First month of the first year in a six-year cycle Sigla: bold
 number=feast; t=New Moon; ††=ful moon
Mishmarot A (4Q320)
 Fr. 1 i
 I ... to show it from the east. [And] to cause it to shine [in] the middle of
 heaven, in the foundation [of the creat]ion, from evening ti l morning.
 (There is ful moon)
 On the 4th (day) in the week [of the sons of G]amul in the first month
 of [the firs]t year.
 [On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Jedai]ah, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month, which fals) on the 30th (day) of the 1st
 (solar month).
 [On the sabbath in (the week of) Hak]koz, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month, which fals) on the 30th of the second
 (solar month).
 [On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Elia]shib, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month), (which fals) on the 29th (day) in the third
 (solar month).
 [On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Bilg]ah, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month, which fals) on the 28th day in the fourth
 (solar month).
 [On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Peta]hiah, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 27th day in the fifth
 (solar month).
On the 6th (day) in (the week of) Delaiah, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 27th (day) in the sixth
 (solar month).
 [On the sabbath in (the week of) Seori]m, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 25th (day) in the seventh
 (solar month).
 [On the 2nd (day) in (the week of) Abiah, (corresponding) to the
 3]oth (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 25th (day) in the eighth
 (solar month).
 [On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Jakim, (corresponding) to the 2]9th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 24th (day) in the ninth (solar
 month).
 I On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Immer, (corresponding) to the 30th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 23rd (day) in the tenth (solar
 month).
 On the 6th (day) in (the week of) Jehezekel, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 22nd (day) in the
 eleventh (solar) month.
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Jeiarib, (corresponding) to the 30th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 22nd (day) in the twelfth
 (solar) month.
 The second year:
 On the 2nd (day) in (the week of) Malchiah, (corresponding) to the 29th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 20th (day) in the first (solar
 month).
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Jeshua, (corresponding) to the 30th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 20th (day) in the second
 (solar month).
 On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Huppah, (corresponding) to the
 29th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 19th [in the third]
 (month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Pizzez, (corresponding) to the 30th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 18th in the f[ourth] (month).
 On the 1st (day) in Gamul, (corresponding) to the [29th (day of the
 lunar month which fals) on the 17th day in the fifth] (solar month).
On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Jedaiah, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month which fals) [on the 17th (day) in the sixth]
 (solar month).
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Mijamin, (corresponding) to the 2
 [9th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 15th day] in the seventh
 (solar month).
 On the 6th (day) in Shecaniah, (corresponding) to the 3[oth (day of
 the lunar month which fals) on the 15th (day) in the eighth] (solar
 month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Bil[gah, (corresponding) to the 29th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 14th (day) in the ninth] (solar
 month).
 [On the 2nd (day) in (the week of) Petahiah, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 13th (day) in the tenth]
 (solar month).
 Fr. 2
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Je[shua, (corresponding) to the 29th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 5th (day) in the seventh]
 (solar month).
 On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Huppah, (corresponding) to the
 30th (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 5th (day) in the eighth
 (month).
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Hezir, (corresponding) to the 29th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 4th (day) in the ninth (solar
 month).
 On the 6th (day) in Jachin, (corresponding) to the 30th (day of the
 lunar month which fals) on the 3rd (day) in the tenth (solar month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Jedaiah, (corresponding) to the 29th
 (day of the lunar month which fals) on the 2nd (day) of the eleventh
 (solar) month.
 On the 2nd (day) [of Mijami]n, (corresponding) to the 30th (day of the
 lunar month which fals on) the second day in the twelfth (solar) month.
I 
Fr. 3 i
 . the days, the sabbaths [and] the months [for] years and for
 sabbatical years and for jubilees. On the 4th (day) of the week of the
 sons of Gamul.
 Fr. 4 i
 I The first year: its feasts. On the third (day in the week of) Meoziah:
 the Passover.
 On the 1st (day) [in (the week of) Jeda[iah]: the Waving of the
 [Sheaf].
 On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Seorim: the [Second] Passover.
 vacat
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Jeshua: the Feast of Weeks.
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Meoziah: the Day of Memorial.
 [On] the 6th (day) in Jeiarib: the Day of Atonement [in the] seventh
 [month]. vacat
 [On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Jeda]iah: the Feast of
 Tabernacles.
 The second (year): its feasts. [On the 3rd (day)] in (the week of)
 Seorim: the Passov[er].
 [On the 1st (day)] in (the week of) Mijamin: the Waving of the [Sheaf].
 [On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Abiah: the Second Passover].
 Fr. 4
 IV On the 1st (day) [in (the week of) H]uppah: [the Feast of W]eeks.
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Seorim: the Day of Mem[orial].
 On the 6th (day) in (the week of) Malchia[h]: the Day of Ato[nement].
 On [the 4th (day) in (the week of)] Mijamin: the Feast of Tabernacles.
 vacat
The third (year): its feasts. On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Abiah:
 the Passover.
 On the 21st (day) in (the week of) Shecaniah: the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 On the 5th (day) in (the week of) Jakim: the [Second] Passover.
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Hezir: [the Feast of Weeks].
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Abiah: the Day of Memorial.
 On the 6th (day) in (the week of) Jeshua: the Day of Atonement.
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Shecaniah: the Feast of
 Tabernacles.
 Thefourth(year): its feasts.
 V [On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Jaki]m: the Passover.
 On the 1st (day) [in (the week of) Jeshebeab: the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 On [the 5th (day) in (the week of) Im]mer: the Second Passover.
 [On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Piz]zez: [the Feast] of Weeks.
 [On] the 4th (day) in (the week of) Jakim: the Day of Memorial.
 [On] the 6th (day) in (the week of) Huppah: the Day of Atonement.
 [On the 4th] (day) in (the week of) Jeshebeab: the Feast of
 Tabernacles. vacat
 [The fifth (year): its feasts.]
 On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Immer: the Passover.
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Pizzez: the Waving of the Sheaf.
 [On the 5th (day)] in (the week of) Jehezekel: the Second Passover.
 [On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Joiari]b: the Feast of [Weeks].
 [On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Immer: the Day of Memorial].
 VI On the 6th (day) in (the week of) Hezir: the Day of Atonement.
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Pizzez: the Feast of Tabernacles.
 vacat
 The sixth (year): its feasts.
 On the 3rd (day) in (the week of) Jehezekel: the Passov[er].
On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Gamul: the Waving of the Sheaf.
 [On the 3rd (day)] in (the week of) Maaziah: the [Second] Passover.
 On the 1st (day) in (the week of) Malchiah: the Feast of [Weeks].
 [On] the 4th (day) in (the week of) Jehezeke[l: the Day of Memorial].
 [On] the 6th (day) in (the week of) Jachin: [the Day of Atonement.
 On the 4th (day) in (the week of) Gamul: the Feast of Tabernacles] ...
 Mishmarot B (4Q321, fr. 1)
 I [And the New Moon is on the 1st (day) in (the week of) Jedaiah which
 is on the twel]fth (day) in it (=the seventh month).
 On the second (day) in (the week of) Abia[h which is on the] twe[nty
fifth (day) in the eighth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the third (day) in (the week of) Mijamin
 which is on the twelfth (day)] in (the eighth month).
 On the third (day) in (the week of) Jakim which is on the [twenty]-fou
 [rth (day) in the ninth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the fourth (day) in Shecaniah which is on
 the eleve]nth (day) in (the ninth month).
 On the fifth (day) in (the week of) Immer which is on the thirteenth
 (day) in the ten[th (month).
 And the New Moon is on the sixth (day) in (the week of) Je]shabeab
 [which is on the tenth (day) in (the tenth month)].
 On [the s]ixth (day) in (the week of) Jehezekel which is on the twenty
second (day) in the eleventh (month).
 And [the New Moon is on sabbath in (the week of)] Petahiah which
 is [on the ninth (day) in (the eleventh month)].
 On the first (day) in (the week of) Joiarib which is on the twenty
second (day) in the twelfth month.
 And [the New Moon is on the secon]d (day) in (the week of) Delaiah
 [which is on the ninth (day) in (the twelfth month)]. vacat
 [The] second (year), the first (month).
 On the second (day) in (the week of) Malchiah which is on the
 twen[tieth (day) in the first (month).
And] the New Moon [is on the third (day) in (the week of) Harim
 which is on the se]venth (day) in (the first month).
 On the fourth (day) in (the week of) Jeshua which is [on] the twentieth
 (day) in the second (month).
 And [the New Moon is on the fifth (day) in (the week of)] Hakkoz
 which is on the ninth (day) [in (the second month).
 On the fifth (day) in (the week of) Huppah which is on the nine]teenth
 (day) in the third (month).
 And the New Mo[on] is on the sixth (day) [in (the week of) E]l[iashib]
 which is on the sixth (day) [in (the third month).
 On the sabba]th in (the week of) Pizzez
 Fr. 2
 I [which is on the eighteenth (day) in the fourth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the first (day) in (the week of) Immer which
 is on the fifth (day)] in (the fourth month).
 On the first (day) in (the week of) [Gamul, which is on the
 seventeenth (day) in the fifth (month)].
 [And the New Moon is on the second (day) in (the week of)
 Je]hezek[el which is on the fourth (day) in (the fifth month).
 On the third (day) in (the week of) Jed]aiah which is on [the
 seventeenth (day) in the sixth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the fourth (day)] in (the week of) Maoziah
 which is on the fourth (day) in (the sixth month).
 On the fourt[h (day) in (the week of) Mijamin which is on the fifteenth
 (day)] in the seventh (month).
 And the New Moon is on the f[ifth (day)] in (the week of) Seorim
 which is on the second in (the seventh month).
 On the sixth (day) in (the week of) Shecaniah which is on the
 fif[teenth (day) in the eighth (month).
 And the New] Moon is on the sabbath in Abiah which is on the
 second (day) in (the eighth month). [On the sabbath in (the week of)
 Bilgah] which is on the fourteenth (day) of the ninth (month).
 And the New Moon is [on the first (day)] in the ninth month.
And the second [New Moo]n is on the third (day) in [(the week of)
 Hezir, which is on the thirty]-first in [(the ninth month).
 On] the second (day) in (the week of) Petahiah which is on the
 thir[teenth (day) in the tenth (month)].
 And the New Moon is on the fourt[h (day) in (the week of) Ja]chin
 which is on the twenty-nin[th (day) in (the tenth month)].
 On [the third (day) in (the week of) Delai]ah which is on the twelfth
 (day) in the ele[venth month.
 And the New] Moon is on the sixth (day) in (the week of) Joiar[ib
 which is on the tw]enty-ninth (day) in [(the eleventh month)].
 On the fifth (day) in (the week of) Harim which is on the twelfth (day)
 of the twelfth month. And the New Moo[n] is on the sabbath [in (the
 week of)] Mijamin which is on the twenty-eighth (day) in (the twelfth
 month). The third (year). The [first] (month). [On the sixth (day) in (the
 week of) Hakkoz which is on the tenth (day)] in the first (month).
 Fr. 3
 I And the New Moon is on the second (day) in (the week of)
 Shecaniah which is on the twenty-seventh (day) in (the first month).
 On the first (day) in (the week of) Jakim which is on the tenth (day) in
 the second (month).
 And the New Moon is on the third (day) in (the week of) Jeshebeab
 which is on the twenty-sixth (day) in (the second month).
 On the second (day) in (the week of) Immer which is on the ninth
 (day) in the third (month).
 And the New Moon is on the fifth (day) in (the week of) Pizzez which
 is on the twenty-sixth (day) in (the third month).
 On the fourth (day) in (the week of) Jehezekel which is on the eighth
 (day) in the fourth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the sixth (day) in (the week of) Gamul which
 is on the twenty-fourth (day) in (the fourth month).
 On the fifth (day) in (the week of) Meoziah which is on the seventh
 (day) in the fifth (month).
 And the New Moo]n is on the first (day) in (the week of) Har[im which
is on the twenty-fourt]h (day) in (the fifth month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Mal[chiah which is on the seventh
 (day) of the sixth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the second (day) in (the week of) Hakkoz
 which is on the twenty-third (day) in (the sixth month).
 On the first (day) in (the week of) Jeshua which is on the fifth (day)] in
 the seventh (month).
 And the New Moon on the fourth (day) in (the week of) Eliashib
 which is on the [twenty-]second (day) [in (the seventh month).
 On the third (day) in (the week of) Huppah which is on the fifth (day)
 in the eighth (month).
 And the New Moon is in the fifth (day) in (the week of) Bilgah which
 is on the twenty-first (day) in] (the eighth month).
 On the fourth (day) in (the week of) Hezir which is on the fourth (day)
 in the ninth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the sabbath in (the week of) J[ehezekel
 which is on the twenty-first (day) in (the ninth month).
 On the sixth (day) in (the week of) Jachin which is on the third (day)
 in the tenth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the first (day) in (the week of) Maaziah
 which is on the nine]teenth in (the tenth month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Jedaiah which is on the second
 (day) in the eleventh month.
 And the New Moon is [on the third (day) in Seorim which is on the
 nineteenth (day) in (the eleventh month).
 On the second (day) in (the week of) Mijamin which is on the second
 (day) in the twelfth month.
 And the New] Moon is on the fourth (day) in (the week of) Abiah
 which is on the eighteenth (day) in (the twelfth month).
 The fourth (year).
 On the fourth (day) in (the week of) Shecan[iah which is on the first
 (day) in the first month].
 And the New Moon is on the sixth (day) in (the week of) Jakim which
 is on the seventeenth (day) in (the first month).
 [On the fifth (day) in (the week of) Pizzez which is on the thirtieth
(day) in] the first (month).
 On the sabbath [in (the week of)] Petahiah which is on the thirtieth of
 the second month.
 And the New Moon is on the first (day) in (the week of) Hez[ir which
 is on the seventeenth (day) in it. On the first (day) in (the week) of
 Delaiah, which is on the twenty-ninth]
 Fr. 4
 I [On the fifth (day) in the (week) of Jakim which is on the seventh (day)
 in the fifth (month).
 And the N]ew Moon is on the first (day) in [(the week of) Bilg]ah
 which is on the twe[nty-f]ou[r]th (day) in (the fifth month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Hezir which is on the sevent[h (day)
 in the sixth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the second (day) in (the week of) Petahiah]
 which is on the twenty-third (day) in (the sixth month).
 On the first (day) in (the week of) Jachin which is on the fifth (day) in
 the seventh (month).
 And the New Moon is on the fourth (day) [in (the week of) Delaiah
 which is on the twenty-second (day)] in (the seventh month).
 On the third (day) in (the week of) Joiarib which is on the fifth (day) in
 the eighth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the fifth (day) in (the week of) Harim [which
 is on the twenty-first (day) in the eighth month.
 On the fou]rth (day) in (the week of) Malchiah which is on the fourth
 (day) in the ninth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the sabbath in (the week of) Abiah which is
 on the [twenty-]first (day) in ([the ninth month).
 On the sixth (day) in (the week of) Je]shua which is [on] the third
 (day) in the tenth (month).
 And the New Moon is on the first (day) in (the week of) Jakim which
 is on the nineteenth (day) in [(the tenth month).
 On the sabbath in (the week of) Jeshebeab which is on the second
 (day) of the elev]enth month.
And the New Moon is on the thi[rd (day) in (the week of) Immer]
 which is on the nineteenth (day) in (the eleventh month).
 [On the second (day) in (the week of) Pizzez which is on the second
 (day) in the twel]fth month.
 And the New Moon is on the four[th (day) in (the week of) Jehezek]el
 which is on the eighteenth (day) [in the twelfth month.] vacat . (First
 year)
 [In the first] month in (the week of) Gamul; [on the thir]d (day) in (the
 week of) Ma[aziah: Passover. In (the week of) Jedaiah: the Waving of
 the Sheaf. The (first day) of the second (month) is in (the week of)
 Jedaiah; in (the week of) Seorim: the Second Passover. (The first day
 of the) third (month is) in (the week of Hakkoz.]
 V in Jeshua: the Feast of Week[s] is in it.
 [The fou]r[th (month begins) in (the week of) E]liashib.
 The fifth (month begins) in [(the week of) Bilgah.
 The sixth (month begins) in (the week of) J]ehezekel.
 The seve[nth (month begins) in (the week of) Maoziah]. In Maoziah is
 the Day of Memorial. In Joiarib is the Day of Atonement. In Jedaiah is
 [the Feast of] Tabernacles.
 The eighth (month begins) [in (the week of) Seorim].
 The ninth (month begins) in (the week of) Jeshua.
 The tenth (month begins) in (the week of) Huppah.
 The eleventh (month begins) in (the week of) Hezir.
 The twelfth (month begins) in (the week of) Gamul. vacat
 The second (year).
 The first (month begins) in (the week of) Jedaia[h]. In (the week of)
 Seorim is the Passover. In (the week of) Mijamin is the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 The second (month begins) in (the week of) M[ijamin. In (the week
 of) Abiah] is the Second Passover.
 The [third (month begins) in (the week of) E]l[iashib] and in (the week
 of) Hu[ppah] is the Feast of Weeks.
 [The] fourth (month begins) [in (the week of) B]ilgah.
The fifth (month begins) in (the week of) Petahiah.
 [The sixth (month begins) in (the week of) Maaziah.
 The seventh (month begins) in (the week of) Seorim. In (the week of)
 Seorim is the Da]y of Memorial. In (the week of) Malchiah [is the Day
 of] Atonement. In (the week of) Mijamin [is the Feast] of Tabernacles.
 [The eighth (month begins) in (the week of) Abiah.
 The ninth (month begins) in (the week of)] Huppah.
 The tenth (month begins) in (the week of) Hezir.
 The e[leventh] (month begins) in (the week of) Jachin.
 [The twel]fth mo[nt]h (begins) [in (the week of) Jedaiah]. vacat
 The third (year).
 The first (month begins) in (the week of) M[ijam]in. In (the week of)
 Abiah is the Passover. In (the week of) Shecaniah is the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 The se[cond] (month begins) in (the week of) Shecaniah and in (the
 week of) Jakim is the Second Passover.
 The third (month begins) in (the week of) Bilgah. In [(the week of)
 Hez]ir
 Fr. 4—5
 VI [is the Feast] of Week[s.
 The fourt]h (month begins) in [(the week of) Petahiah.
 The fifth (month begins) in (the week of) Delaiah.
 The sixth (month begins) in (the week of) Seorim.
 In the seventh (month), in (the week of) Abiah is the D]ay [of
 Memorial. In (the week of) Jeshua] is the D[ay of Atonement. In (the
 week of) Shecania]h is the Feast of Tabernacles.
 The ei[ghth (month begins) in (the week of) Jakim.
 The ninth (month begins) in (the week of) Hezir.
 The tenth] (month begins) in (the week of) Jachin.
 The ele[venth month begins] in (the week of) Joiarib.
 [The twel]fth month (begins) in (the week of) Mij]amin.
The fourth (year).
 The first (month begins) in (the week of) Shecaniah. In (the week of)
 Jakim is the Passover. In (the week of) Jeshebeab is the Waving of
 the Sheaf.
 The second (month begins) in (the week of) Jeshebeab. In (the week
 of) Im[mer is the Second Passover. In (the week of) Jachin is the
 Fe]ast of [Weeks.
 The fourth (month begins) in (the week of) Delaiah.
 The fifth] (month begins) in (the week of) Harim.
 The sixth (month begins) in [(the week of) Abiah.
 The se]venth (month begins) [in (the week of) Jakim]. In (the week of)
 Jaki[m is the Da]y [of Memorial]. In (the week of) Huppah [is the Day of
 Atonement. In (the week of) Jeshebeab is the Feast of Tabernacle]s.
 The eighth (month begins) in (the week of) Immer.
 The ninth (month begins) in [(the week of) Jachin.
 The tenth (month begins) in (the week of) Joiari]b.
 The ele[vent]h [month (begins)] in (the week of) Ma[Ichiah.
 The twelfth month (begins) in (the week of) Shecaniah]. vacat
 The fifth (year).
 The f[irst] (month begins) in [(the week of) Jeshebeab. In (the week of)
 Immer] is the Passover. In (the week of) Pi[zzez i]s the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 The se[cond (month begins) in (the week of) Pizze]z. In Jehezekel is
 the Second Passover.
 The third (month begins) in [(the week of) Delaiah. In (the week of)
 Joiarib is the Feast of W]eeks.
 The f[ourth] (month begins) in (the week of) Harim.
 The fifth (month begins) in (the week of) Hakk[o]z.
 [The si]xth (month begins) in (the week of) Jakim.
 The seventh (month begins) in (the week of) Immer. In (the week of)
 Immer is the Day of Memori[al. In (the week of) Hezir is the Day of
 Atonement. In (the week of) Pi]zzez is the Feast of Tabernacles.
 The eighth (month begins) in (the week of) Jehezekel.
 The ninth (month begins) in (the week of) Joiar[ib] and the tenth
 (month begins)
Fr. 5
 VI [in (the week of) Malchiah.
 The eleventh month (begins) in (the week of) Jeshua.
 The twelfth month (begins) in (the week of) Jeshebeab.
 [The sixth (year).
 The first (month begins) in (the week of) Pizzez. In (the week of)
 Jehezekel is the Passover. In (the week of) Gamul is the Waving of the
 Sheaf.
 The second (month begins) in (the week of) Gamul. In (the week of)
 Maaziah is the Second Passover.
 The third month (begins) in (the week of) Harim. In (the week of)
 Malchiah is the Feast of Weeks.
 The fourth (month begins) in (the week of) Hakkoz.
 The fifth (month begins) in (the week of) Eliashib. The sixth (month
 begins) in (the week of) Immer.
 The seventh (month begins) in (the week of) Jehezekel. In (the week
 of) Jehezekel is the Day of Memorial. In (the week of) Jachin is the Day
 of Atonement. In (the week of) Gamul i]s the Feast [of Tabernacles.
 The eighth (month begins) in (the week of) Maaziah.
 The ninth (month begins) in (the week of) Malchiah.
 The tenth (month begins) in (the week of) Jeshua].
 The eleven[th] month (begins) in (the week of) Huppah.
 [The twelfth month (begins) in (the week of) Pizzez].
 Mishmarot D (4Q325)
 Fr. 1
 [... Passover on the thi]rd (day of the week). On the eighteenth (day) in
(the first month) is the sabbath of [(the week of) Joiarib] ... in the
 evening.
 On the twenty-fifth (day) in (the first month) is the sabbath of (the
 week of) Jedaiah. During the same week is [the Feast] of Barley on
 the twenty-sixth (day) in (the first month), after the sabbath.
 The beginning of the [second] month [is on the s]ixth [day] of (the
 week of) Jedaiah.
 On the second (day) in (the second month) is the sabbath of Harim.
 On the ninth (day) in (the second month) is the sabbath [of Seorim].
 On the sixteenth (day) in (the second month) is the sabbath of
 Malchiah.
 On the twenty-third (day) in (the second month) [is the sabbath of
 M]ijamin.
 On the thirtieth (day) in (the second month) is the sabbath of Hakkoz.
 vacat The beginning of the third month after the sabbath
 Fr. 2
 [On the sixth (day) in (the week of) Bilgah. On the second (day) in (the
 fifth month) is the sabbath of I]mmer. On the thi[r]d (day) i[n (the fifth
 month) is the Feast of the New Wine after the sabbath of Immer.
 On] the ninth (day) in (the fifth month) is the sabbath of Hezir. [On the
 sixteenth (day) in (the fifth month) is the sabbath of Aphses. On the
 twenty-]third (day) in (the fifth month) is the sabbath [of Petahiah.
 On the thirtieth (day) in (the fifth month) is the sabbath of Jehezekel.
 The beginni]ng of the sixth month is after the sabbath (=Sunday) of
 Jehezekel. On the seventh (day) in (the sixth month) is the sabbath of
 Jachin. On the fou]rteenth (day) [in (the sixth month) is the sabbath of
 Gamul. On the twenty-first (day) in (the sixth month) is the sabbath of
 Delaiah. On the twenty-]second (day) in (the sixth month) is the Feast
 of New Oil. After the Feast of New Oil is the Feast of the Offering of
 Wo]od.
 Mishmarot F (4Q328)
... [In the fifth (year): Jeshabe]ab. In the sixth: Hapizzez.
 These are the beginnings of the years.
 [In the first [year]: Gamul, Eliash[ib], Moazia[h, Huppah.
 In] the second: Jedaiah, Bilgah, Se[or]im, He[zir].
 [In the third]: Mij[amin], Petahiah, Ab[iah, Jachin].
 [In the fourth: Shecaniah, De]laiah, Jakim, Joia[rib.
 In the fifth: Jeshabeab, Harim, Immer, Malchiah.
 In the s[ixth: Hapizzez, ]...
Calendrical Document C
 (4Q326)
 In the first (month) on the fourth (day) is Sabbath...
 On the eighth (day) in it [is Sabbath] ...
 On the eleventh (day) in it is Sabbath...
 [On the 14th (day) in it is Passover on the third (day of the week).
 On the 15th (day) in it: the feast of the Unleavened Bread on the
 fourth (day of the week).
 On the 18th (day) is Sabbath.
 On the 25th (day) in it: Sabbath.
 On the 26th (day) in it:] feast of the Gr[ain after the Sabbath.
 In the first month] 30 (days).
 On the second (day) in it: [Sabbath.
 On the ninth (day) in it: Sabbath.
 On the 16th (day)] ...
Calendrical Document D
 (4Q394 1-2)
 This text is the opening of MMT (Some Observances of the Law) and
 has been dealt with there (see pp. 222-3).
Calendric Signs (Otot)
 (4Q319)
 The so-caled Otot or ‘Signs’ document was copied as the continuation
 of 4QSe (4Q259). Whether it was part of the original composition is as
 debatable as the attachment of a calendar to MMT at 4Q394 1-2 (cf.
 above, pp. 222-3).
 4Q319 represents a calendrical system based on the weekly
 rotation of the twenty-four priestly courses during a six-year period and
 constructed into six consecutive Jubilees, i.e. 294 years. The ‘sign’
 which recurs in every three years probably identifies the years in which
 the shorter lunar year of 354 days is supplemented by means of the
 intercalation of an extra month of 30 days (3×354+30=1,092) to equal
 the length of three ‘solar’ years of 364 days each (3×364=1,092).
 Palaeographicaly the manuscript is dated to the first half of the first
 century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see J. Ben-Dov, DJD, XXI, 199-244.
 Frs. 1-3
 IV .
 ... on the fourth (day) of the wee[k] ...
 its light on the fourth (day) of the wee[k] of the creation
 in (the week of) G[amul.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the (year) of Release (i.e. the first
 sabbatical year).
 (Second sabbatical cycle):
 [The sign of Shecaniah: in the thi]rd (year).
 The sign of [G]amul: in the sixth (year).
(Third sabbatical cycle):
 The sign [of Shecaniah: in the second (year).
 The sign of G]amul: [in the fifth (year).
 (Fourth sabbatical cycle):
 The sig]n of Shecaniah: after the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Gamu[l: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Shec]an[i]ah:
 [in the (year of) Release.
 (Fifth sabbatical cycle):
 The sig]n of Gamul: in the third (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: [in the sixth (year).
 (Sixth sabbatical cycle):
 The sign of Gam]ul: [in the second (year).
 The si]gn of She[caniah]: in the fifth (year).
 (Seventh sabbatical cycle):
 The sign of Gam[ul: after the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fou]rth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the (year of) Release
 (which is) the sign of the en[d of the Jubilee.
 The signs of the second J]ubilee: 17 signs.
 Of this in the (year of) Release: [2] signs.
 ...of the creation...
 [The si]gn of Shecaniah:
 in the second (year).
 [The sign of Ga]mul: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: after the (year of) Release.
 [The sign of Ga]mul:
 Frs. 2—5, 9, 23
V [in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Gamul: in the third (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the second (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: after the (year of) Releas]e. 
The sign of Shecaniah: in the fo[urth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the thi]rd (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the si[xth (year)
 The sign] of Shec[aniah
 (which is) the sign] of the end of the third Jubilee.
 The signs of the third Jubilee: 17 signs].
 Of this in the (year of) Release: 2 signs.
 [The sign] of Shecaniah: in the second year.
 [The sign of Gam]ul: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: after the (year of) Release.
 The sig[n of Gamul: in the fourth (year).
 The sig]n of Shecaniah: in the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Gamul: in the third (year).
 The sign [of Shecaniah: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of G]amul: in the second (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fifth (year).
 The sign [of Gamul: after the (year of)] Release.
 The sign of Shecaniah:
in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: [in the (year of) Release.
 The sign] of Shecaniah: in the third (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of Shec[aniah: in the second (year).
 The sign] of Gamul: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: after the (year of) Release
 [(which is) the sign of the end of the Jubilee.
 The signs of the] fourth [Jubi]lee: 17 signs.
 Of this in the (year of) Release: 2 signs.
 [The sign of Gamul]: in the fourth year.
 The sign of Shecaniah: [in the (year of) Rel]ease.
 The sign of Gamul: in [the third (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of Gamul]: in the second (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fi[fth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: after the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Shecaniah]: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of [Gamul]: in the (year of) Release.
 The sign of She[caniah: in the second (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah]: after the [(year of)] Release.
 The sign of Ga[mul: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the (year of) Release
 (which is) the sign of the end of the fifth Jubilee in Jeshebab.
 The signs of the fifth Jubilee: 16 signs.
 Of this in the (year of) Release:
VI 3 signs.
 Frs. 5-8
 [The sign of Gamul: in the third year.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in] the second (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in [the fifth year].
 The sign of Gamul: after the (year of) Rel]ease.
 [The si]gn of Shecaniah: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Ga[mul: in the (year of) Release.
 The sign of Shecaniah]: in the third (year).
 The sign of Gamul: in the sixth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: [in the second (year).
 The sign] of Gamul: in the f[if]th (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: after [the (year of) Release.
 The si]gn of Gamul: in [the four]th (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the (year of) Relea[se.
 The sign of Gamul: in] the third (year).
 The si[gn of Shecaniah: in the s]ixth (year)
 (which is) the sign of the end of the sixth Ju[bilee.
 The signs of the sixth] Jubilee: 1[6 signs].
 Of this in [the (year of) Release]: 2 signs
 ...
 and for the Jubi[lee].
 [The sign of Gamul: in the second (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the fifth (year).
The sign of Gamul: after] the (year of) Relea[se.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the four]th (year).
 The sign of Gamu[l: in] the (year of) Relea[se.
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the third (year).
 The sign] of Gamul: in the sixth (year).
 The sig[n of Shecaniah: in] the second (year).
 The si[gn of Gamul]: in the fifth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: [after] the (year of) Relea[se.
 The sign of G]amul: in the fourth (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the (year of) Re[lease.
 The sign] of Gamul: [in the thir]d (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah: in the sixth (year).
 The sign [of Gamul]: in the sec[ond (year).
 The sign of Shecaniah]: in the fifth (year)
 (which is) the sign of the end of the Jubi[lee.
 The signs of the] seventh [Jubilee] 16 signs.
 Of this in the (year of) Release: [2 signs].
 Sign of the J[ubilees,
 ye]ar of Jubilees according to [holy] day[s].
 [In Gamul the first (Jubilee),
 in Jedaiah the] sec[ond],
 in Mijamin the third, [in Shecaniah the fourth]
‘Horoscopes’ or Astrological Physiognomies
 (4Q186, 4Q534, 4Q561)
 Three documents from Cave 4, one in Hebrew and two in Aramaic, al
 dating probably to the end of the first century BCE, contain fragments
 of ‘horoscopes’ or, more precisely, astrological physiognomies
 claiming a correspondence between the features and destiny of a
 person and the configuration of the stars at the time of his birth.
 The Hebrew text, published by J. M. Alegro (4Q186), is written in a
 childish cipher. The text runs from left to right instead of the normal
 right to left and uses, in addition to the current ‘square’ Hebrew
 alphabet, letters borrowed from the archaic Hebrew (or Phoenician)
 and Greek scripts. The spiritual qualities of three individuals described
 in the work are reflected in their share of Light and Darkness. The first
 man is very wicked: eight parts of Darkness to a single part of Light.
 The second man is largely good: six parts of Light against three parts
 of Darkness. The last is almost perfect: eight portions of Light and only
 one of Darkness.
 As far as physical characteristics are concerned, shortness, fatness
 and irregularity of features are associated with wickedness, their
 opposites reflect virtue.
 In the astrological terminology of the document, the ‘second Column’
 doubtless means the ‘second House’; and a birthday ’in the foot of the
 Bul’ should probably be interpreted as the presence, at that moment,
 of the sun in the lower part of the constelation Taurus.
 The first Aramaic ‘horoscope’ (4Q534) is, according to J. Starcky,
 that of the final Prince of the Congregation, or Royal Messiah. It is just
 as likely, however, that the text a ludes to the miraculous birth of Noah
 and it has therefore been placed together with the other remains of
 Noah literature (cf. pp. 554-5below). 4Q561, also in Aramaic, is too
 short to alow an identification but it is unlikely to refer to Noah as the
qualities seem to be in some middle position between good and evil.
 Whether the sectaries forecast the future by means of astrology, or
 merely used horoscope-like compositions as literary devices, is
 impossible to decide at present, though I am inclined towards the latter
 alternative. That such texts are found among the Scrols should not,
 however, surprise anyone. For if many Jews frowned on astrology,
 others, such as the Helenistic Jewish writer Eupolemus, credited its
 invention to Abraham! (Cf. G. Vermes, Scripture and Tradition in
 Judaism,Leiden, 1973, 80-82.)
 For the texts see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD, V, 88-91;
 J. Strugnel, RQ 7 (1970), 274-6; P. S. Alexander, in E. Schürer, G.
 Vermes, F. Milar and M. Goodman, The History of the JewishPeople
 in the Age of Jesus Christ, I, Edinburgh, 1986, 364-6.
 4Q 186, fr. 1
 I ... and his thighs are long and lean, and his toes are thin and long. He
 is of the second Column. His spirit consists of six (parts) in the House
 of Light and three in the Pit of Darkness. And this is his birthday on
 which he (is to be/was?) born: in the foot of the Bul. He wil be meek.
 And his animal is the bul.
 I ... and his head ... [and his cheeks are] fat. His teeth are of uneven
 length (?). His fingers are thick, and his thighs are thick and very hairy,
 each one. His toes are thick and short. His spirit consists of eight
 (parts) in the House of Darkness and one from the House of Light...
 Fr. 2
 I ... order. His eyes are black and glowing. His beard is ... and it is ...
 His voice is gentle. His teeth are fine and wel aligned. He is neither
 ta l, nor short. And he ... And his fingers are thin and long. And his
 thighs are smooth. And the soles of his feet... [And his toes] are wel
 aligned. His spirit consists of eight (parts) [in the House of Light, of] the
second Column, and one [in the House of Darkness. And this is] his
 birthday on which he (is to be/was) born: ... And his animal is...
 4Q561
 ... mixed but not too much. His eyes wil be between white and black.
 His nose wil be long and beautiful. His teeth wi l be even. His beard
 wi l be thin but not too much so. His limbs wil be smoot[h and]
 be[tween re]duced and thick ...
Phases of the Moon
 (4Q317)
 Seventy-six fragments of an astronomical text written in a cryptic
 alphabet record the phases of the moon, divided into 1/14ths of the ful
 size of the moon, over the consecutive days of a 364-day solar
 calendar. J. T. Milik has reconstructed a fourteen-line section, based
 on fr. 1 ii, 2—14 and supplemented with other smaler fragments.
 For the text, see J. T. Milik, The Books of Enoch: Aramaic
 Fragments of Qumran Cave 4 (Oxford, 1976), 68-9.
 I ... [On the f]ifth (day) of it (the month), [tw]elve (fourteenths of the
 moon’s surface) are covered and thus it [enters the day. On the sixth
 (day) of it] thir]teen (fourteenths of its surface) are covered and thus it
 enters the day. On the seventh (day) of it [fourteen (fourteenths of its
 surface)] are covered and thus] it enters the day. vacat On the eighth
 (day) of it... the firmament above ... its light is to be covered ... on the
 first of the Sabbath (Sunday). vacat [On the ninth (day) of it one
 (fourteenth) portion (of its surface)] is revealed [and thus it enters the
 night]. On the tenth (day) of it [two (fourteenths of its surface)] are
 [revealed and it enters] the night. vacat On the ele[venth (day) of it
 three (fourteenths of its surface) are revealed] and thus it enters the
 night. vacat
A Zodiacal Calendar with a Brontologion
 (4Q318)
 A fascinating, but unfortunately fragmentary, calendar indicates the
 passage of the moon through the various Zodiacal signs during the
 successive months of the year from Nisan to Adar. The fragment
 begins with the month of Tevet, continues with Tishri and ends with
 Adar. The last four lines of col. V I have preserved a brontologion, i.e.
 prediction of prodigies or i l-omens by means of an interpretation of
 the sound of thunder on certain specified days of the month. The actual
 prediction of woe survives only at the end of the text in lines 8-9. It
 takes the form of a famine and the invasion of the country by a
 conquering foreign army.
 For the editio princeps, see J. C. Greenfield and M. Sokoloff, DJD,
 XXXVI, 259-74.
 VI ... ... and on 13 and [1]4 [Pisces; on 15 and 16 Aries; on 17 and 18
 Taurus; on 1]9 and 20 and 2[1 Gemini; on 22 and 23 Cancer; on 24
 and 25 Leo; on 26 and] 27 and 28 [Virgo; on 29 and 30 Libra] vacat
 [Tishri. On 1 and 2 Scorpio; on 3 and 4 Sagittarius; on 5 and 6 and 7]
 Capricorn; on 8 and on 13 and 14 Cancer; on 15 and 16 Leo; on 17
 and 18 Virgo; on 19 and 20 and 21 Libra; on 22 [and 23] Scorpio; on
 24 and 25 Sagit[tarius]; on 26 and 27 and 28 [Capricorn]; on 29 and
 30 Aquari[us]. vacat Shevat. On 1 and 2 [Pisce]s; on 3 and 4 [Aries;
 on] 5 and [6 and] 7 Taurus; on 8 [and 9 Gemini]; on 10 [and 11]
 Cancer; on 12 [and] 13 and 14 Leo; [on 15 and 16 Virgo]; on 17 and
 18 Libra; on 19 [and 20 and 21 S]corpio; on 22 [and] 23 [Sagit]tarius;
 on 24 and 25 Capricorn; on [26 and] 27 and 28 Aquarius; on 29 and
 30 Pisces vacat
 V I Adar. On 1 and 2 Aries; on 3 and 4 Taurus; on 5 [and 6 and 7
Gemini]; on 8 and 9 [Cancer; on 10 and 11 L]eo; on 12 and 13 [and
 14] Virg[o]; on 15 and [16 Libra; on] 17 and on 18 [Scorpio]; [on] 19
 and 20 (and 21) Sag[ittarius]; on 22 and 23 [Cap]ricorn; [on 24 and 25]
 Aquarius; on 26 and 27 [and 28] Pi[sces; on 29 and 30] Aries. vacat [If
 in Taurus] it thunders ... [and] hard labour for the country and sword [in
 the cour]t of the king and in the country of ... to the Arabs (?) [ ... ]
 starvation and they wi l pi lage one anoth[er ... ]. vacat If in Gemini it
 thunders, terror and affliction (wi l be brought) by strangers and by ...
Order of Divine Office
 (4Q334)
 Cave 4 has yielded seven fragments of a liturgical work made up of six
 columns, listing the number of songs and words of praise to be sung
 during the night and during the day on consecutive days of the month.
 Only frs. 2-4 can be built up into a coherent text. The script is dated to
 the end of the first century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see U. Glessmer, DJD, XXI, 167-94.
 Frs. 2-4
 [And on the eighth (day) of it (of the month) at night: e]ight
 [so]ngs and forty-... [w]ords of prai[se, and during the day: ...
 songs and] sixtee[n wor]ds [of praise. And on the nint]h (day) of
 it at night: [eight songs and] fort[y-t]wo [words of praise, and
 during the d]ay: ... songs [and ... words of praise]. And on the
 tenth (day) of i[t] at night: eight songs [and ... words of praise,
 and during the day: ... songs] and twenty words of p[raise] ...
The Words of the Heavenly Lights
 (4Q504—6)
 Surviving in three fragmentary manuscripts from Cave 4 (4Q504-6),
 ‘The Words of the Heavenly Lights’ are colective prayers for the days
 of the week which are ful of biblical reminiscences. In the best
preserved of them (4Q504), the Sabbath and the fourth day are
 expressly mentioned in the surviving text. The editor of the document,
 M. Bailet (DJD, VI (1982), 137-75), attributes to it an exaggeratedly
 early date, the mid-second century BCE.
 4Q504
 I ... Amen! Amen! ... I ... We pray Thee, O Lord, do in accordance with
 Thyself, in accordance with the greatness of Thy might, Thou who didst
 pardon our fathers when they rebeled against Thy saying. Thou wert
 angry with them so as to wish to destroy them, but because of Thy love
 for them and for the sake of Thy Covenant - for Moses had atoned for
 their sin - and in order that Thy great might and the abundance of Thy
 mercy might be known to everlasting generations, Thou didst take pity
 on them. So let Thine anger and wrath against al [their] sin turn away
 from Thy people Israel. Remember Thy marvels which Thou didst for
 the poor of the nations. For we were caled by Thy Name... to [cause]
 us [to repent] with al (our) heart and soul and to plant Thy Law in our
 heart [that we might never depart from it, straying neither] to right nor to
 left. For Thou wilt heal us of foolishness and of blindness and confusion
 [of heart... Behold] we were sold because of our iniquities but despite
 our offences Thou didst cal us ... Thou wilt save us from sinning
 against Thee ... and to make us understand the testimonies ...
I ... Behold, al the nations are as nothing beside Thee, they are
 counted as void and naught before Thee. We have caled on Thy
 Name alone. Thou hast created us for Thy glory and made us Thy
 children in the sight of al the nations. For Thou hast named Israel ‘My
 son, my first-born’, and hast chastised us as a man chastises his son.
 Thou hast brought us up throughout the years of our generations [by
 means of] evil diseases, famine, thirst, pestilence, and the sword ... of
 Thy Covenant. Because Thou hast chosen us [from al] the earth [to be
 Thy people,] therefore hast Thou poured out Thine anger [and jealousy]
 upon us in al the fury of Thy wrath. Thou hast caused [the scourge] of
 Thy [plagues] to cleave to us of which Moses wrote, and Thy servants
 the Prophets, that Thou wouldst send evil against us in the last days...
 IV ... Thy dweling-place ... a resting-place in Jerus[alem, the city
 which] Thou hast [chosen] from al the earth that Thy [Name] might
 remain there for ever. For Thou hast loved Israel above al the peoples.
 Thou hast chosen the tribe of Judah and hast established Thy
 Covenant with David that he might be as a princely shepherd over Thy
 people and sit before Thee on the throne of Israel for ever. Al the
 nations have seen Thy glory, Thou who hast sanctified Thyself in the
 midst of Thy people Israel. They brought their offering to Thy great
 Name, silver and gold and precious stones together with al the
 treasures of their lands, that they might glorify Thy people, and Zion Thy
 holy city, and the House of Thy majesty. And there was neither
 adversary nor misfortune, but peace and blessing... and they ate and
 were satisfied and grew fat ...
 V ... [they forsook] the fount of living waters... and served a strange
 god in their land. Also, their land was ravaged by their enemies; for Thy
 fury and the heat of Thy wrath overflowed, in the fire of Thy jealousy,
 making of it a desert where no man could go and return. Yet
 notwithstanding a l this, Thou didst not reject the seed of Jacob, neither
 didst Thou cast away Israel to destruction, breaking Thy Covenant with
 them. For Thou alone art a living God and there is none beside Thee.
 Thou didst remember Thy Covenant, Thou who didst rescue us in the
 presence of al the nations, and didst not forsake us amid the nations.
 Thou wert gracious towards Thy people Israel in al the lands to which
 Thou didst banish them, that they might remember to return to Thee
and to hearken to Thy voice [according to] al Thou hadst commanded
 by the hand of Moses Thy servant.
 For Thou hast shed Thy Holy Spirit upon us, bringing upon us Thy
 blessings, that we might seek Thee in our distress [and whis]per
 (prayers) in the ordeal of Thy chastisement. We have entered into
 distress, have been [stri]cken and tried by the fury of the oppressor.
 For we also have tired God with our iniquity, we have wearied the
 Rock with [our] sins. [But] in order that we may profit, Thou hast not
 wearied us who leadest [us] in the way in [which we must walk. But] we
 have not heeded ...
 VI ... [Thou hast taken away] al our transgressions and hast purified
 us of our sin for Thine own sake. Thine, Thine is righteousness, O
 Lord, for it is Thou who hast done al this! Now, on the day when our
 heart is humbled, we expiate our iniquity and the iniquity of our fathers,
 together with our unfaithfulness and rebelion. We have not rejected
 Thy trials and scourges; our soul has not despised them to the point of
 breaking Thy Covenant despite al the distress of our soul. For Thou,
 who hast sent our enemies against us, strengthenest our heart that we
 may recount Thy mighty deeds to everlasting generations. We pray
 Thee, O Lord, since Thou workest marvels from everlasting to
 everlasting, to let Thine anger and wrath retreat from us. Look on [our
 affliction] and trouble and distress, and deliver Thy people Israel [from
 al] the lands, near and far, [to which Thou hast banished them], every
 man who is inscribed in the Book of Life... serve Thee and give thanks
 to [Thy holy Name] ... from those who vex them ... VI ... who deliverest
 us from al distress. Amen! [Amen!]
 Hymnsforthe Sabbath Day
 Give thanks ... 
[Bless] His holy Name always 
... a l the angels of the holy firmament 
... [above] the heavens, 
the earth and al its deep places, 
the great [Abyss] and Abaddon 
and the waters and al that is [in them.] 
[Let] a l His creatures [bless Him] always 
for everlasting [ages. Amen! Amen!] 
... bless His holy Name. 
Sing to God...
 Fr. 3
 I ... Blessed be the God who has given us rest. [Amen], amen. [Prayer
 on the] fourth [da]y. Remember, O Lord ...
 Fr. 4
 I ... We know these through Thy Ho[ly] Spirit which Thou hast granted
 us. [Have mercy on us] and remember us not for the iniquities of the
 men of old in al their evi[l] dealings, [nor] their stiff necks. Thou redeem
 us and, [pray,] forgive our iniquities and [our] s[ins].
 Fr. 6
 I ... Remember, pray, that we are Thy people and that Thou hast
 carried us marvelously [on the wings of] eagles and hast brought us
 towards Thee. And like an eagle which rouses its nestlings and hovers
 over [its young], spreads out its wings, takes one and carries it on [its
 pinions], so we dwel apart and are not reckoned among the nations
 and ... Thou art in our midst in the pilar of fire and the cloud [of] Thy
 [holi]ness walking before us, and as it were Thy glory in our mid[st] ...
 Fr. 8 recto
 I ... [Rememb]er, O Lo[r]d that... Thou hast fashioned A[dam], our
 [f]ather, in the likeness of [Thy] glory; Thou didst breathe [a breath of
 life] into his nostrils and, with understanding, knowledge [Thou didst
give him] ... Thou didst make [him] to rule [over the Gar]den of Eden
 which Thou didst plant... and to walk in the land of glory... he guarded.
 And Thou didst enjoin him not to st[ray ...]... he is flesh and to dust [he
 wi l return (?)] ... And Thou, Thou knowest... for everlasting generations
 ... a living God and Thy hand ... man in the ways of... [to fi l the] earth
 with [vi]olence and to shed [innocent blood] ...
Liturgical Prayer
 (1Q 34 and 34 bis)
 The folowing fragments, published by J. T. Milik (DJD, I, 152-5),
 belong to a colection of prayers for Jewish festivals. The title of the
 present section is lost, but reference to the renewal of the Covenant
 seems to indicate that we have here another part of the sect’s
 Pentecostal liturgy.
 I ... Thou wilt cause the wicked to be our ransom and the unfaithful to
 be our redemption. [Thou wilt] blot out al our oppressors and we shal
 praise Thy Name for ever [and ever]. For this hast Thou created us and
 [to say to Thee] this: Blessed art Thou ...
 I ... the Great Light (of heaven) for the [day]time, [and the Little Light
 (of heaven) for the night] ... without transgressing their laws, ... and their
 dominion is over al the world.
 But the seed of man did not understand al that Thou caused them to
 inherit; they did not discern Thee in al Thy words and wickedly turned
 aside from every one. They heeded not Thy great power and therefore
 Thou didst reject them. For wickedness pleases Thee not, and the
 ungodly shal not be established before Thee.
 But in the time of Thy goodwil Thou didst choose for Thyself a
 people. Thou didst remember Thy Covenant and [granted] that they
 should be set apart for Thyself from among al the peoples as a holy
 thing. And Thou didst renew for them Thy Covenant (founded) on a
 glorious vision and the words of Thy Holy [Spirit], on the works of Thy
 hands and the writing of Thy Right Hand, that they might know the
 foundations of glory and the steps towards eternity... [Thou didst raise
 up] for them a faithful shepherd ...
Prayers for Festivals
 (4Q 507-9)
 Three badly worn manuscripts from Cave 4 (4Q507-9) partly
 correspond to the foregoing fragments from Cave 1 (1Q34 and 34
 bis). They have preserved prayers for festivals, two of which are
 explicitly associated with the Day of Atonement and the Day of
 Firstfruits. The editor, M. Bai let (DJD, V I, 175-215), dates them to the
 beginning of the first century CE.
 4Q507, fr. 1
 We are (encompassed) by iniquity since the womb, and since the
 breast by guilt. While we live, we walk in iniquity...
 4Q508, fr. 1 (cf. 1Q34 bis)
 [And the righteous... to grow fat thanks to the clouds of heaven and the
 produce of the land, to distingui]sh the righteous from the wicked. And
 Thou shalt make of the wicked our expiation, and by the upright Thou
 shalt destroy a l our oppressors. And we wi l praise Thy na[m]e for ever
 and ever. For [Thou hast created us for this] and we answer Thee with
 this: Blessed be ...
 Fr. 2 (cf. 1Q34 bis)
... Prayer for the Day of Atonement. Remember O Lord, the feast of
 mercies and the time of return (?)... Thou hast established it for us as a
 feast of fasting, and an everlas[ting] precept ... Thou knowest the
 hidden things and the things reveal[ed] ...
 Fr. 3
 ... Thou didst establish [Thy Covenant] with Noah ...
 4Q509, fr. 3 (cf. 1Q34 bis)
 For Thou hast caused us to rejoice, removing our grief, and hast
 assembled our banished ones for a feast of... Thou shalt gather our
 dispersed women for the season of ... Thy [me]rcies on our
 congregation like ra[in-drops on the earth in the season of sowing...
 and like showers on the gr]ass in the seasons of sprouting and... We
 shal recount Thy marvels from generation to generation. Blessed be
 the Lord who has caused us to rejoice...
 Fr. 132
 I [Prayer for the Day of] Firstfruits. Remember, O Lord, the feast of ...
 and the pleasing free-wi l offerings which Thou hast commanded... [to
 br]ing before Thee the firstfruits of [Thy] works ...
Daily Prayers
 (4Q 503)
 A manuscript from Cave 4 (4Q503) consisting of 225 papyrus
 fragments, edited by M. Bailet (DJD, VI, 105-36), lists evening and
 morning benedictions for each day of the month. The calendar folowed
 appears to be lunar since evening precedes morning. The editor
 places the writing in the first quarter of the first century BCE.
 I And when the sun rises... the firmament of heaven, they shal bless.
 Answer[ing they shal say:] Blessed be the Go[d of Israel ... ] Today... in
 the fourt[h of the gates of light... ] On the fifth [of the month in the
 eve]ning, they shal bless. Answering, they shal say: Blessed be the
 God [of Israel] who hides... before him in every division of his glory...
 today the fourte[enth] ... light of the day. Peace be on you, Israel ...
 [When the sun] rise[s] to i lumine the earth, they shal bless, and again
 the numbe[r shal be] ele[ven days] to the feasts of joy and the
 appointed times of g[lory,] for [this d]ay is in the fifteenth of the gate[s
 of light] ... [Peace be on you,] Israel. On the sixth of the month in the
 evening, they shal bless. Answering, they shal [say]: Bles[sed be the
 God] of Israel ... And when [the sun rises to i lumine the earth, they shal
 bless. Answering, they shal say]
 Frs. 7-9
 IV ... Peace [be on you, Israel] ... On the seventh of [the month in the
 evening, they shal bless. Answering, they shal say:] Blessed be the
 God of Is[rael] ...
Fr. 11
 [On the t]welfth of the month in the evening [they shal bless] ... (This
 probably continues up to the 26th of the month.)
Prayer or Hymn Celebrating the Morning and the
 Evening
 (4Q 408)
 One medium sized and fifteen or sixteen smal fragments represent a
 colection of liturgical prayers of which only one can be partly
 translated. The document is akin to 4Q375 and 376 as wel as to
 1Q29. Palaeographicaly the document is placed in the late second
 century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see Annette Steudel, DJD, XXXVI, 298
319.
 Fr. I
 ... [B1]essed art Thou, O Lord, who art righteous in al Thy ways. Be
 mighty in strength ... [in Thy judge]ments. Thou who art faithful ... Thou
 art understanding [with al in]teligence ... might. Thou who art ... to
 bring out ... who hast created the morning as a sign to reveal the
 dominion of the light as the boundary of the daytime ... for their work.
 To bless Thy holy name Thou hast created them. For the light is good
 ... [Thou art ... ] who hast created the evening as a sign to reveal the
 dominion [of darkness] ... from labour. Thou hast [c]reated them to
 bless Thy holy name] when they see that the light is good and when ...
 Thou hast created the evening as a sign (to mark) the appearance of
 the dominion of [darkness] ...
Blessings
 (1QSb=1Q28b)
 These fragments from a colection of blessings were originaly
 attached to the Scrol containing the Community Rule and the
 Messianic Rule. They have been skilfuly pieced together by J. T. Milik
 (DJD, I, 118-29), who dates them to around 100 BCE.
 The Blessings were to be recited by the Master or Guardian, and
 were, as it seems, intended for the messianic age, and perhaps for the
 ceremony of the institution of the new Community. It is, however,
 possible that they were actualy used during the course of some liturgy
 anticipating and symbolizing the coming of the messianic era. A l the
 members of the Covenant are blessed first, folowed by someone who
 seems to be the priestly head of the Community, the Messiah of
 Aaron. The next blessing is addressed to the sons of Zadok, the
 Priests (and Levites?), and finaly the Prince of the Congregation, the
 Messiah of Israel, is blessed. The rest of the document is lost.
 For an additional fragment, see G. J. Brooke and J. M. Robinson, ‘A
 Further Fragment of iQSb: The Schøyen Colection MS 1909’, JJS 46
 (1995), 120-33.
 The Blessing of the Faithful
 I Words of blessing. The Master shal bless them that fear [God and
 do] His wil, that keep His commandments, and hold fast to His holy
 [Covenant], and walk perfectly [in al the ways of] His [truth], whom He
 has chosen for an eternal Covenant which shal endure for ever.
May the [Lord bless you from the Abode of His holiness]; may He open
 for you from heaven an eternal fountain which [shal not fail]!
 May He [favour] you with every [heavenly] blessing; [may He teach you]
 the knowledge of the Holy Ones!
 [May He unlock for you the] everlasting [fountain; may He not withhold
 the waters of life from] them that thirst!
 The Blessing of the High Priest
 I .
 I May the Lord lift His countenance towards you; [may He delight in
 the] sweet odour [of your sacrifices]!
 May He choose [al] them that sit in your pries[tly colege]; may He
 store up al your sacred offerings, and in the [season of] ... al your
 seed!
 May He [lift] His countenance towards al your congregation!
 May He place upon your head [a diadem] ... in [everlasting] glory; may
 He sanctify your seed in glory without end!
 May He grant you everlasting [peace] ...
 May He fight [at the head of] your Thousands [until the generation of
 falsehood is ended] ... [to bend] many peoples before you ... al the
 riches of the world ...
 For God has established al the foundations of ... may He lay the
 foundation of your peace for ever!
 The Blessing of the Priests
 Words of blessing. The M[aster shal bless] the sons of Zadok the
 Priests, whom God has chosen to confirm His Covenant for [ever, and
to inquire] into al His precepts in the midst of His people, and to
 instruct them as He commanded; who have established [His Covenant]
 on truth and watched over al His laws with righteousness and walked
 according to the way of His choice.
 May the Lord bless you from His holy [Abode]; may He set you as a
 splendid jewel in the midst of the congregation of the saints!
 May He [renew] for you the Covenant of the [everlasting] priesthood;
 may He sanctify you [for the House] of Holiness!
 May He [judge al] the leaders by your works, and al [the princes] of the
 peoples by the words from out of your lips!
 May He give you as your portion the firstfruits of [al delectable things];
 may He bless by your hand the counsel of al flesh!
 IV ... may everlasting blessings be the crown upon your head!
 ... [For] He has chosen you [to] ... and to number the saints and to
 [bless] your people ... the men of the Council of God by your hand, and
 not by the hand of a prince ...
 ... May you be as an Angel of the Presence in the Abode of Holiness to
 the glory of the God of [hosts] ...
 May you attend upon the service in the Temple of the Kingdom and
 decree destiny in company with the Angels of the Presence, in
 common council [with the Holy Ones] for everlasting ages and time
 without end; for [a l] His judgements are [truth]!
 May He make you holy among His people, and an [eternal] light [to
 i lumine] the world with knowledge and to enlighten the face of the
 Congregation [with wisdom]! [May He] consecrate you to the Holy of
 Holies! For [you are made] holy for Him and you shal glorify His Name
 and His holiness ...
 V .
 The Blessing of the Prince of the Congregation
 The Master shal bless the Prince of the Congregation ... and shal
 renew for him the Covenant of the Community that he may establish
 the kingdom of His people for ever, [that he may judge the poor with
righteousness and] dispense justice with {equity to the oppressed}
 (Schøyen) of the land, and that he may walk perfectly before Him in al
 the ways [of truth], and that he may establish His holy Covenant at the
 time of the affliction of those who seek God.
 May the Lord raise you up to everlasting heights, and as a fortified
 tower upon a high wal!
 [May you smite the peoples] with the might of your hand and ravage the
 earth with your sceptre; may you bring death to the ungodly with the
 breath of your lips!
 [May He shed upon you the spirit of counsel] and everlasting might, the
 spirit of knowledge and of the fear of God; may righteousness be the
 girdle [of your loins] and may your reins be girdled [with faithfulness]!
 May He make your horns of iron and your hooves of bronze; may you
 toss like a young bul [and trample the peoples] like the mire of the
 streets!
 For God has established you as the sceptre. The rulers ... [and al the
 kings of the] nations shal serve you. He shal strengthen you with His
 holy Name and you shal be as a [lion; and you shal not lie down until
 you have devoured the] prey which naught shal deliver ...
Benedictions
 (4Q 280, 286-90)
 Five fragmentary copies of a text containing liturgical blessings and
 curses, each unit ending with ‘Amen, amen’, have survived in Cave 4.
 Of these 4QBerakhota (4Q286), preserved on three photographic
 plates (PAM 43-311-13), provides continuous passages. They paralel
 Community Rule I and War Rule X I, and the style of 4Q286 I also
 reca ls the Songs of the Holocaust for the Sabbath (4Q400-407). I
 agree with Bilhah Nitzan that 4QBerakhot is probably an independent
 version of part of the ceremony of the renewal of the covenant included
 in 1QS 11, 3-17. 4Q280 depends mainly on Community Rule ii, but
 reveals Satan’s specific name, Melkiresha’ (My king is wickedness),
 the counterpart of Melchizedek (My king is justice), chief of the Army of
 Light (cf. below, pp. 532, 571).
 For the editio princeps, see B. Nitzan, DJD, XI, 1-74 (4Q286-90),
 and DJD, XXIX, 1-8 (4Q280).
 4Q286=4QBerakhota
 Blessings
 Fr. 1a i
 I The seat of Thy splendour and the footstool of Thy glory in the
 [h]eights of Thy standing and Thy holy stepping-place. And Thy glorious
 chariots, their cherubim and their wheels and al [their] companies;
 foundations of fire and flames of brightness and shinings of majesty
and str[eam]s of fire and wonderful luminaries; [majes]ty and splendour
 and glorious height, holy foundation and sou[rce of] majesty and height
 of glory, ma[rvel of than]ksgivings and reservoir of might, splendour of
 praises and great in wonderful things and healing[s] and miraculous
 deeds, foundation of wisdom and pattern of knowledge and source of
 understanding, source of prudence and holy counsel and true
 foundation, treasure-house of inteligence, building of righteousness
 and place of upright[ness, great] in loving-kindness and in meekness
 and true loving-kindness and everlasting mercies and mysteries of
 mar[vels] in [the]ir reve[lations] and holy weeks in their appointed time
 and squads of months ... [... of ye]ars in their circuits and glorious
 festive seasons in [their] ... fixed moments ... and the sabbatical years
 of the land in [their] divi[sions, ap]pointed times for libe[rty ... eternity ...
 [l]ight and dar[kness ... ]
 Fr. 2
 ... [thei]r ... in the strength of their majesty and a l the [sp]irits of those
 who bring to the Sanctua[ry] ... in [their] comp[anies and in] their
 [do]minions, the mighty of the ‘gods’ with power. vacat ... zeal for
 judgement with strength. vacat ... [they shal] al [bless in com]munity
 Thy holy name.... [Ho]ly of Holies [they] wi l curse ... knowledge of
 understanding ... vacat ... joyous cry ...
 Fr. 3
 ... ru[ling] angels ... in (a]l their services ... [sp]arks and lightnings ... the
 angels of rain cl[oud]s, and heavy clouds and thick [clouds] and dew
drops ... and al the spirits of dominations ... when they were created ...
 [suc]ceed one another ...
 Fr. 5
... the earth and everything [on it, 
and the world and al its] inhabitants. 
The ground and al its devices; 
[the earth and al]l that exist on it. 
[The mountains and al]l the hi ls; 
the valeys and al the ravines; 
the dry lan[d ...] its [ce]dars; 
the low-lying woods and al the deserts of desolation 
... and its voids; 
and the foundations of its structure. 
The jackals and ... 
... the ta l trees, their fruit 
and al the cedars of Leban[on] ... 
[Grain, win]e and oil and al the produce. 
... and al the wave-offerings of the world 
in tw[elve] months ... 
... Thy words. Amen, amen.
 Fr. 7a i
 I ... and al their elect ... ... and al who know the song of ... and the
 blessings of truth in the fe[stive] times ... and the kingdom shal be lifted
 up among the p[eople]s ... the assembly of the pure ‘gods’ and al who
 possess everlasting knowledge to prai[se and to bl]ess Thy glorious
 name in al the [everlasting ages]. Amen, amen.
 Frs. 20+13+4Q288
 [Every one should rebuke his felow in truth, and virtuous humility and
 with] righteous [intenti]on [in the Community of God. And whoever] has
 erred when returning [to the truth], they shal rebuke him [according to]
 their [commandments]. They shal rebuke him and have mercy [on him
 if he transgr]esses. Let no [man] bear gru[dge against his felow from
one day] to [ano]ther. [Let him] not hate him in his heart [so as n]o[t to
 bear guilt because of him. And whatever is revealed to the men] of the
 Community let him instruct [him with] his mer[ciful love] and with the
 spirit [of humility he shal distance him from the deeds of]
 deceitfulness. The [Guardian of the Congregation shal ad]monish him
 regarding al [the regulations] perfecting his deeds from al [sin through
 re]buking him before wi[tnesses. Let no man take revenge] on his own
 behalf in any matter for he wi l be punished [for six months/one year (?)]
 ... Let no one take the law [in his own hand, disobeying the order of his
 fe low. Let him not speak to him] in anger or out of envy prompted by
 the spirit of wickedness, disregarding the dignity of his coleague with
 [heated] anger, standing up against him without [justification].
 4Q287 fr. 3
 ... and they shal bless Thy holy name with benedictions of... the Holy of
 Holies. And al the creatures of flesh [shal bl]ess Thee, al of them that
 Thou has crea[ted] ... the beasts and the birds and the worms and the
 fish of the sea and al ... Thou hast created them al renewing ...
 Fr. 10
 ... against the anointed ones of [His] hol[y] spirit ...
 4Q286 (4Q287, fr. 6)=4QBerakhotb
 Curses of Belial
 Fr. 7 ii
I council of the Community shal al say together, Amen, amen.
 Afterwards [they] shal damn Belial and al his guilty lot. They shal
 answer and say, Cursed be [B]elial in his hostile design, and damned
 in his guilty dominion. Cursed be al the spirits of his [lo]t in their
 wicked design, and damned in their thoughts of unclean impurity. For
 they are the lot of darkness and their visitation is for eternal
 destruction. Amen, amen.
 Cursed be the Wicke[d One in al the ages ] of his dominions, and
 may al the sons of Belial be damned in al the works of their service
 until their annihilation [for ever, Amen, amen.]
 And [they shal continue to say: Be cursed, Ang]el of Perdition and
 Spir[it of Dest]ruction, in a l the thoughts of your g[uilty] inclination [and
 al your abomina]ble [plots] and [your] wicked design, [and] may you be
 [da]mned ... Amen, am[en].
 [Cursed be a]l those who practi[se] their [wicked designs] and
 establish [in their heart] their (evil) devices, [plotting against Go]d’[s
 Covenant] ... to exchange the judgemen[ts of truth for foly.]
 4Q280=4QBenedictionsf
 Curses of Melkiresha’
 Fr. 2
 [May God set him apart] for evil from the midst of the Sons of Li[ght
 because he has turned away from folowing Him.
 And they shal continue saying: Be cur]sed, Melkiresha‘, in al the
 thou[ghts of your guilty inclination. May] God [deliver you up] for torture
 at the hands of the vengeful Avengers. May God not heed [when] you
 cal on Him. [May He raise His angry face] towards you. May there be
 no (greeting of) ‘Peace’ for you in the mouth of al those who hold fast
 to the Father[s. May you be cursed] with no remnant, and damned
without escape.
 Cursed be those who practi[se their wicked designs] and [es]tablish
 in their heart your (evil) devices, plotting against the Covenant of God
 ... , seers of [His] truth.
 [Who]ever refuses to enter [His Covenant, walking in the
 stubbornness of his heart] ...
Confession Ritual
 (4Q393)
 Fragmentary remains of a communal confession of sins, spoken in the
 first person plural, recal the language of Psalm li, Jeremiah and
 Deuteronomy, and resemble confession prayers in Ezra ix, 5-15;
 Daniel ix, 4-19; 1QS 1, 24-11, 1. In the latter text, the paralel
 confession is part of the ceremony of the renewal of the Covenant. The
 script is dated to mid-first century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see Daniel Falk, DJD, XXIX, 45-61.
 I ... in order that Thou be justified by Thy wor[ds] ... we were poured out
 through our iniquities ... they [stiff]ened the neck. Our God, hide Thy
 face from [our] si[ns and] blot out [al]l our iniquities and create in us a
 new spirit, O Lord.... [do not] withhold faithfulness and to rebels ... and
 bring back sinners to Thee. And [do not] reject from Thee the broken
 [spir]it, O God. According to Thy people in order to ... and always on ...
 nations and kingdoms ... their word[s] ... to Thy peoples in order to ...
 I ... the faithful God who keep [the] covenant and loving-kindness to
 those who love [Thee and who keep Thy commandments which Thou
 didst command] to Moses. Do not forsake Thy people [and] Thine
 [in]heritance. And let no man walk in the stubbornness of his [evil]
 heart. O God, in Thy goodwil ... Thy people and Thine inheritance shal
 not be forsa[k]en and let no man walk in the stubbornness of his evil
 heart. And where is Strength? And on whom shalt Thou cause Thy face
 to shine without his being purified? And they shal be sanctified and
 exalted above everything. It is Thou O Lord who hast chosen our
 fathers from of old. Thou hast caused us to stand for them as a
 remnant to give us (the covenant) which Thou hast established with
 Abraham for Israel that they might possess the proud ... mighty men,
the hosts of those who are powerful, giving us houses filed with ...
 water, vineyards and olive trees [and] an inheritance of the people ...
Purification Ritual A
 (4Q 512)
 Badly worn papyrus fragments from Cave 4 (4Q512) contain prayers:
 to be recited to obtain purification from various kinds of ritual
 uncleanness. M. Bailet (DJD, VI, 263-86) suggests an early first
century BCE date for the script.
 Frs. 29-32
 VI And he wil bless there [the God of Israel. Answering, he wil say:
 Blessed art Thou, God of Israel. And I stand] before Thee on the feas[t]
 ... Thou hast ... me for purity ... and his burnt-offering and he wi l bless.
 Answering he wil say: Blessed art Thou, [God of Israel, who hast
 delivered me from al]l my sins and purified me from impure indecency
 and hast atoned so that I come ... purification and the blood of the
 burnt-offering of Thy goodwi l and the pleasing memorial ...
 Fr. I
 X [And on completin]g [his] seven days of puri[fication] ... and he shal
 wash his clothes with w[ater and cleanse his body] and he shal put on
 his garments and shal bless ag[ain] ... the God of Isra[e]l ...
Purification Ritual B
 (4Q 4]14)
 Thirty-six badly damaged fragments, written on the verso of 4Q415,
 represent a purificatory ritual and prayers. The script dates to the turn
 of the era. Some lines are paralel to 4Q512, frs. 42-44 ii, 2—5.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Eshel, DJD, XXXV, 135-54.
 Fr. 2 i 3-4
 ... and thou shalt purify us according [to] Thy precepts of holiness for
 the first, the third and the seventh ... by the truth of Thy covenant ... to be
 purified from the impurity of ... And then he shal enter the water ...
 Answering, he shal say, ‘Blessed a[rt Thou, God of Israel] for from the
 utterance of Thy mouth is declared the purity of al: to be separated
 from al the guilty men of uncleanness who cannot be purified by the
 purifying water ....
A Liturgical Work
 (4Q 392-3)
 This is a religious text, possibly liturgical, but strongly reminiscent of
 the language of the Thanksgiving Hymns. For the editio princeps, see
 D. Falk, DJD, XXIX, 23-44.
 Fr. 1
 ... each to be united with [G]od and not to depart from a[l] ... and their
 soul wi l cling to His Covenant and ... the words of the mouth of ... The
 Go[d] ... the heaven above and to search out the ways of the sons of
 man (leaving) no secret [in their heart(?)]. He created darkness [and
 l]ight is His, and in His dweling is the most perfect light, and al
 gloominess ceases before Him. It is not for Himself the distinction
 between light and darkness, for He has distinguished them for the
 sons of man: light during the day by means of the sun; (and during the)
 night (by means of) moon and stars. The inscrutable light is with Him,
 and His knowledge is without [end, f]or al the works of God are
 multiple (?). We who are flesh, should we not consider this? With us ...
 for countless signs and wonders ... [wi]nds and lightnings ... [s]ervants
 of the most holy pla[ce]. From before Him proceed the lu[minaries] ...
 Frs. 2 and 5 (4Q393 1 i)
 ... [they did not lis]ten to the signs and wonders ... plagues [which no
 kingdom has seen] until this day and ... He has brought us out [of the
land of Egypt] without being counted. In the mighty waters he made a
 path ... the great [abyss] [and He made] him [sin]k like stone in the
 deep ...
D. Historical and Apocalyptic Works
 ‘Conquest of Egypt and Jerusalem or Acts of a Greek King’, Israel
 Antiquities Authority
Apocalyptic Chronology or Apocryphal Weeks
 (4Q 247)
 A fragment consisting of seven mutilated lines, and palaeographicaly
 dated to the last decades of the first century BCE, appears to belong
 to an apocalyptic account of world history, divided into weeks of years
 and possibly centred on the Temple of Jerusalem. Despite the lack of
 continuous narration, the significant details justify the inclusion of this
 text in the volume.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Broshi, DJD, XXXVI, 187-91.
 ... [de]termined [end] ... [And afterwards wi l co]me the fif[th] week ...
 four-hundred [and eighty years (after the exodus from Egypt)]
 Solo[mon] (built the Temple; cf. 1 Kings vi, 1) ... (It was destroyed in the
 time) [of Zede]kiah king of Judah ...
 (It was restored by) the Levites and the people of the Lan[d] ... (Final
 stage) ... kin[g] of the Kittim ...
Historical Text A
 (4Q248)
 The story told in this ten-line fragment, which contains only broken
 lines, resembles the account of Daniel xi concerning the ‘King of the
 North’ (Antiochus IV Epiphanes) who invades Egypt and il-treats
 Jerusalem.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Broshi and E. Eshel, DJD, XXXVI,
 192-200.
 ... in Egypt and Greece and ... Therefore they shal eat ... their [s]ons
 and their daughters in a siege in ...
 And (the Lord) shal cause [His] wind to pass [through] their court
yards and ... he shal come to Egypt and sel her dust and ... to the city
 of the Temple and shal capture her with al [her ... ] And he shal turn
 against the lands of the nations and shal return to Egyp[t] ... [And when
 the shattering of the power of the ho[ly] people [comes to an end] ...
 When al these [come into being] the children [of Israel] shal return ...
Historical Texts C-E (formerly Mishmarot Ca-c)
 4Q331-3)
 Three very badly mutilated calendric documents include references to
 Jewish and Roman historical personalities (Shelamzion/Salome
 Alexandra, wife of Alexander Jannaeus; Hyrcanus I, her son; Yohanan
 the high priest, probably John Hyrcanus I; the Kittim (Romans) and
 Aemilius (no doubt M. Aemilius Scaurus, governor of Syria). They al
 lived in the late second or the first half of the first century BCE. The
 compositions recal the early rabbinic historical calendar known as
 Megilat Taanit (see HJP, 114-5).
 For the editio princeps, see J. A. Fitzmyer, DJD, XXXVI, 281-9.
 Text C(4Q331)
 Fr. 1 i
 [the] priest ... Johanan to bring to ...
 Fr. 1 i
 ... Shelamzion ...
 Text D (4Q332)
Fr. 2
 ... [to] give him honour among the Arab[s] ... [on the n]inth of Shebat—
 that is ... which is the twentieth (day) of the month ... Shelamzion came
 ... to oppose ... Hyrcanus rebeled ... to oppose ...
 Fr. 3
 ... [of the Kit]tim ki led ... [on the] fifth [day] in (the week of) Jedaiah 
this is ...
 Text E (4Q333)
 Fr. 1
 ... [in (the week of) Je]hezekel which is ... Aemilius ki led ... [in] the
 seventh [mon]th ... (the week of) Gamul ... Aemilius ki led ...
Historical Text F
 (4Q468e)
 A tiny fragment is the only surviving part of a historical document
 containing the unusual name of Pwtl‘ys. The editor, M. Broshi, reads it
 as Ptolas, a Helenized form of the Hebrew name Putiel, and probably
 identical with a companion of Herod’s son Archelaus, who
 accompanied him to Rome in 4 BCE. The journey was preceded by
 civil riots in Jerusalem which were suppressed by the army, kiling
 three thousand people (cf. Josephus, Ant. xvii, 213-18; War ii, 8-14)’
 Two other scholars, D. R. Schwartz and W. Horbury (see JJS 50, 308
11), suggest a reading of Peitholaus, a pro-Roman Jew associated
 with the massacre of many of his compatriots in mid-first century BCE
 (cf. Ant. xiv, 84-5; War, i, 162-3).
 For the editio princeps, see M. Broshi, DJD, XXXVI, 407-11.
 [to k]i l the multitude of men ... Potlaus/Potlays. And the persons that
The Triumph of Righteousness or Mysteries
 (1Q27, 4Q299-3011)
 Origina ly entitled The Book of Mysteries by J. T. Milik (DJD, I, 102-5),
 these fragments expound the familiar theme of the struggle between
 good and evil, but their nature is difficult to determine. Perhaps they
 derive from a sermon, or from an apocalyptical writing. Three further
 manuscripts (4Q299-301) yield badly damaged fragments belonging
 to the same writing. 4Q300 3 and 4Q299 partly overlap with 1Q27. An
 earlier passage may be reconstructed from 4Q300 and 4Q299.
 For the editio princeps, see L. H. Schiffman, DJD, XX, 31-123.
 1Q27 combined with 4Q300, fr. 3 and 4Q299, fr.
 1
 I ... a l {so that they might know the difference between g[ood and evil]
 ...} (4Q300) the mysteries of sin ... {a l their wisdom} (4Q300).
 They know not the mystery to come, nor do they understand the
 things of the past. They know not that which shal befal them, nor do
 they save their soul from the mystery to come.
 And this shal be the sign for you that these things shal come to
 pass.
 When the breed of iniquity is shut up, wickedness shal then be
 banished by righteousness as darkness is banished by the light. As
 smoke clears and is no more, so shal wickedness perish for ever and
 righteousness be revealed like a sun governing the world. Al who
 cleave to the mysteries of sin shal be no more; knowledge shal fi l the
 world and foly shal exist no longer.
This word shal surely come to pass; this prophecy is true. And by
 this may it be known to you that it shal not be taken back.
 Do not al the peoples loathe iniquity? And yet it is spread by them
 al. Does not the fame of truth issue from the mouth of al the nations?
 Yet is there a lip or tongue which holds to it? Which nation likes to be
 oppressed by another stronger than itself, or likes its wealth to be
 wickedly seized? And yet which nation has not oppressed another,
 and where is there a people which has not seized [another]’s wealth?
 ...
 4Q299, fr. 3a 4-6 (4Q300 5)
 ... And what shal man be caled ... wise and righteous, for man has no
 ... , nor concealed wisdom save the wisdom of wicked cunning and the
 de[sign of] ... a deed that shal not be done again except ... the word of
 his Maker. And what shal a m[an] do ... who rebels against the word of
 his Maker, his name shal be expunged from the mouth of al ... Listen,
 you who hold up [truth (?)] ... eternity and the plans of existence and the
 thou[ghts] ... every mystery and establishes every plan. He is the author
 of al [that is to come.] He is from before eternity. ‘He’ is His name and
 for e[ver] ...
 4Q300 1a-b i 4=4Q299 2 i 14
 ... [the sorc]erers, experts in sin, have uttered the parable and
 proclaimed the riddle in advance. And then you wi l know if you have
 considered ... and the attestations of heave[n] ... your foolishness for
 the [s]eal of the vision is sealed away from you. And you have not
 considered the mysteries of eternity and have not comprehended
 understanding. Th[en] you wi l say ... for you have not considered the
 root of wisdom. And if you open the vision, it wi l remain shut from you
 ... a l your wisdom for the ... is for you ... his name for [wh]at is the
hidden wisdom ...
 4Q301
 Fr.1
 I wi l cause my spirit to flow and I wi l divide my words for you according
 to your kinds ... [a p]arable and a riddle. And those who search for the
 roots of understanding together with those who hold unto the
 [wonderful] my[steries] ... those who are si ly, and the scheming men for
 al the acomplishments of their actions ...
Time of Righteousness
 (4Q 215a)
 Previously classified as part of the Testament of Naphtali (4Q215), the
 four fragments of 4Q215a, of which only one is translatable, belong to
 a work of poetic eschatology. The subject is the end of wickedness
 and the portrayal of final blessedness.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Chazon and M. Stone, DJD, XXXVI,
 172-86.
 Fr. 1 i
 ... and the stressful constraint and the ordeal of the pit and they shal be
 refined by them to become the elect of righteousness, and al their
 wickedness wi l be blotted out (?) because of His loving-kindness. For
 the age of wickedness is complete and al injustice has [passed] away.
 [For] the time of righteousness has come and the earth is ful with
 knowledge and the praise of God. In the day[s of] ... has come the age
 of peace and the precepts of truth and the testimony of righteousness
 to make one understand the ways of God and the might of His deeds
 for ever and ever. Every ... shal bless Him and every man shal
 prostrate himself before Him. [And they shal have] one [he]art. For He
 knows their recompense before they were created and had assigned
 the service of righteousness as their boundaries ... in their
 generations. For the dominion of righteousness/of goodness has
 come and He shal raise up the throne of the [kingdom], and
 inte ligence is greatly exalted; prudence and soundness are tried by
 [His] h[o]ly desi[gn] ...
The Renewed Earth
 (4Q 475)
 A single fragment of a poem, palaeographicaly datable to the late first
 century BCE, depicts the eschatological bliss of the Holy land.
 For the editio princeps, see T. Elgvin, DJD, XXXVI, 464-73.
 ... [He has] chosen [Zio]n, and in righteous life ... [And] they did
 forget [His precepts] and did not seek them. And the land ... ...
 (His) hands in the midst of them and explained to them al the
 [laws?] ... [a]l the earth so that there wi l be no more guilt in the
 land, nor wi l be... ... [dest]ruction and a l hatred and the whole
 world wi l be like a moth. And al [its] inhabitants ... ... And the
 land wi l be at rest for ever, And [its] inhabita[nts] wi l ... [And
 they wi l become] a beloved son and they wil seek al of it, and
 righteousness ...
A Messianic Apocalypse
 (4Q521)
 Commonly referred to as the ‘Resurrection fragment’, this writing
 consists of sixteen fragments. The script is dated to the beginning of
 the first century BCE. Whether the designation ‘apocalypse’ is fuly
 justified is a moot point: the writing comes across as a composition in
 verse akin to the poetry of the late biblical period. The surviving
 fragments do not appear to include anything patently sectarian. The
 term ‘Messiah’, probably in the singular, is used without the addition of
 Aaron or Israel, and the noun ‘hasidim’, absent from the big scrols and
 little attested elsewhere, figures in lines 5 and 7. The divine name
 ‘Lord’ represents, not the Tetragram, but Adonai (four times). The
 poem incorporates Ps. cxlvi, 6-7 and Isa. lxi, 1, the latter cited also in
 the New Testament (Lk. iv, 18). As in the Gospels, healing and
 resurrection are linked to the idea of the Kingdom of God. Line 12
 furnishes the most explicit evidence concerning the raising of the
 dead. Fragment 7, line 6, repeats the same idea, referring to God as
 ‘He who wil raise the dead of His people’.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXV, 1—38; cf. G.
 Vermes, ‘Qumran Forum Miscelanea I’,JJS 43 (1992), 303-4.
 Fr. 2
 I ... [the hea]vens and the earth wi l listen to His Messiah, and none
 therein wi l stray from the commandments of the holy ones.
 Seekers of the Lord, strengthen yourselves in His service!
 Al you hopeful in (your) heart, wi l you not find the Lord in this?
 For the Lord wil consider the pious (hasidim) and cal the righteous
by name.
 Over the poor His spirit wi l hover and wi l renew the faithful with His
 power.
 And He wil glorify the pious on the throne of the eternal Kingdom.
 He who liberates the captives, restores sight to the blind, straightens
 the b[ent] (Ps. cxlvi, 7-8).
 And f[or] ever I wi l clea[ve to the h]opeful and in His mercy ...
 And the fr[uit ... ] wi l not be delayed for anyone
 And the Lord wil accomplish glorious things which have never been
 as [He ... ]
 For He wil heal the wounded, and revive the dead and bring good
 news to the poor (Isa. lxi, 1).
 ... He wi l lead the uprooted and make the hungry rich ...
 Fr. 7
 ... [the ear]th and a l that is on it; and the sea [and al that is in it] and al
 the ponds of water and rivers who are doing good before the Lor[d] ...
 ... like those who curse and are (destined) for death [when] the Life
giver wi l raise the dead of His people.
 And we wil thank and proclaim to you the righteousness of the Lord,
 who ...
E. Wisdom Literature
 ‘The Seductress’, Israel Antiquities Authority
The Seductress
 (4Q184)
 A long and relatively wel-preserved Wisdom poem from Cave 4
 (4Q184) depicts, by means of the metaphor of the harlot, the dangers
 and attraction of false doctrine. Palaeographica ly, the text is dated to
 the first century BCE, but the work may be much older, possibly
 antedating the Qumran sect.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson,
 DJD,V, 82-5. Cf. also J. Strugnel, RQ 7 (1970), 263-8.
 ... speaks vanity and ... errors.
 She is ever prompt to oil her words, and she flatters with irony,
 deriding with iniquitous l[ips].
 Her heart is set up as a snare, and her kidneys (affections) as a
 fowler’s nets.
 Her eyes are defiled with iniquity, her hands have seized hold of
 the Pit.
 Her legs go down to work wickedness, and to walk in wrong
doings.
 Her... are foundations of darkness, and a multitude of sins is in
 her skirts.
 Her... are darkness of night, and her garments...
 Her clothes are shades of twilight, and her ornaments plagues
 of corruption.
 Her couches are beds of corruption, and her ... depths of the pit.
 Her inns are couches of darkness, and her dominions in the
 midst of the night.
 She pitches her dweling on the foundations of darkness she
 abides in the tents of silence.
 Amid everlasting fire is her inheritance, not among those who
shine brightly.
 She is the beginning of al the ways of iniquity.
 Woe (and) disaster to al who possess her! And desolation to
 al who hold her!
 For her ways are ways of death, and her paths are roads of sin,
 and her tracks are pathways to iniquity, and her by-ways are
 rebelious wrong-doings.
 Her gates are gates of death, and from the entrance of the
 house she sets out towards the underworld.
 None of those who enter there wil ever return, and al who
 possess her wil descend to the Pit. She lies in wait in secret
 places, ...
 In the city’s squares she veils herself, and she stands at the
 gates of towns.
 She wil never re[st] from wh[orin]g, her eyes glance hither and
 thither.
 She lifts her eyelids naughtily to stare at a virtuous man and join
 him, and an important man to trip him up, at upright men to
 pervert their way, and the righteous elect to keep them from the
 commandment, at the firmly established to bring them down
 wantonly, and those who walk in uprightness to alter the statute;
 to cause the humble to rebel against God, and turn their steps
 away from the ways of justice, to bring insolence to their heart,
 so that they march no more in the paths of uprightness; to lead
 men astray to the ways of the Pit, and seduce with flatteries
 every son of man.
Exhortation to Seek Wisdom
 (4Q185)
 Large fragments of a Wisdom poem in which a teacher encourages
 his ‘people’, his ‘sons’, the ‘Simple’, to search for Wisdom have been
 preserved in Cave 4 (4Q185). The script is believed to be late
 Hasmonaean, i.e. from the first half of the first century BCE. As is often
 the case in Wisdom literature, events of the patriarchal and Mosaic
 past are used for didactic purposes.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 85-7. Cf. J. Strugnel, RQ 7 (1970), 269-73.
 I ... And you, sons of men, woe to you!
 For he (man) sprouts from his ground like grass, and his grace
 blossoms like a flower.
 His [gl]ory blows away and his grass dries up, and the wind
 carries away its flower
 ... so that it is found no more ...
 They shal seek him but shal not find him, and there is no hope
 (for him); and his days are like a shadow over the ea[rth].
 Now pray hearken to me, my people; heed me, O you Simple;
 become wise through the might of God.
 Remember His miracles which He did in Egypt, and His
 marvels in the land of Ham.
 Let your heart shake because of His fear,
 I and do His wil ... ... your souls according to His good graces,
 and search for yourself a way towards life, a highway [towards
 ... ]
 a remnant for your sons after you.
 And why have you given up your soul to vanity, ... judgement?
 Hearken to me, O my sons, and do not rebel against the words
of YHWH.
 Do not walk ... [but in the way He established] for Jacob, and in
 the path which He decreed for Isaac.
 Is one day not better ... ... His fear, and not to be afflicted (?) by
 dread and the fowler’s net. ... to be set apart from His angels,
 for there is no darkness, nor gloom ...
 And you, what do you understand ... before Him evil shal go
 towards every people.
 Happy is the man to whom it (Wisdom) has been given thus, ...
 the evil, nor let the wicked boast, saying:
 It has not been given me, nor ... [For God gave it] to Israel, and
 with a good measure He measures it; and He wil redeem al
 His people, and He wil put to death those who hate His
 Wisdom.
 Seek her and find her, grasp her and possess her!
 With her is length of days and fatness of bone, the joy of the
 heart and ...
 Happy is the man who works it ... who does not seek it ... of
 deceit, nor holds to it with flatteries.
 As it has belonged to his fathers, so wil he inherit it, and hold
 fast to it with al the strength of his might, and al his
 immeasurable ... and he shal cause his offspring to inherit it.
 I know how to labour for good ...
 I ...
 [God inspects] al the chambers of the womb and He tries al its
 inward parts.
 [God shapes] the tongue and knows its words.
 God makes the hand [and understands their deeds (?)] ...
A Parable of Warning
 (4Q302)
 This text comprises eighteen badly damaged papyrus fragments
 palaeographicaly dated to the end of the second century BCE. The
 topic of the first fragment seems to be the giant ‘good’ tree which
 produces thorns.
 For the editio princeps, see B. Nitzan, DJD, XX, 135-41.
 Fr. 2 i
 I Sages, reflect on this. 
If a man has a good tree 
[which grows] as far as heaven 
[and its branches reach (?)] 
to the ex[tremitie]s of the lands, 
yet it [pr]oduces thorny fruits (?) 
... former rain and latter rain ... 
and in thirst ...
 ...
 Fr. 3 i
 ... God wil avenge Himself on you for your transgression ... your
 designs and He does not stand up against you to rebuke you, and to
 dispute with you. God’s seat is in heaven and His dominion is over the
 lands and seas ...
Sapiential Didactic Work A
 (4Q412)
 This badly mutilated wisdom composition is represented by four
 fragments. They contain only one translatable sentence.
 For the editio princeps, see A. Steudel, DJD, XX, 164-7.
 Fr. 1
 [P]ut a lock on your lips and protecting doors to your tongue ...
A Sapiential Work (i)
 (4Q413)
 Two fragments have preserved the first four lines of a column from a
 Wisdom composition. The script is Herodian, dating to the turn of the
 era. The word ‘God’ is written with palaeo-Hebrew letters in lines 2 and
 4.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Qimron, DJD, XX, i69-71.
 ... I wi l teach you [knowledge(?)] and wisdom,
 And understand the ways of man
 and the works of the sons of ma[n].
 [According to] God’s [loving-kindness] towards man,
 He has enlarged his inheritance in the knowledge of His truth,
 and according to His rejection of every ev[il man,]
 no-one who [walks after] his ears and his eyes shal live.
 And now [His] loving-kindness ... the ancient,
 they wi l consider the years of al the generations
 as God has revealed ...
A Sapiential Work ( i)
 (4Q415-18, 423, 1Q26)
 A substantial Wisdom composition, probably dating to the second
 century BCE, has survived in six fragmentary manuscripts, one from
 Cave 1 (1Q26) and five partly overlapping scrols from Cave 4 (4Q415,
 416, 417, 418a and b and 423). Apart from the last-mentioned
 manuscript, dated to the first half of the first century CE, al are said to
 be early Herodian (30—1 BCE). The work is unquestionably sectarian
 and displays a terminology akin to the Community Rule, the Damascus
 Document and the Thanksgiving Hymns. T. Elgvin has attempted to
 reconstruct the original work and he sums up its contents as folows:
 argument with a neighbour; relationship of the elect to God and man;
 God as provider for al his creatures; business ethics; a modest life;
 deposit to be returned in ful; the hope of the just man; divine mysteries
 to be studied and the praise of God’s name; attitude to parents, wife,
 children; the elect and the sage’s escape from God’s anger; God as
 permanent judge of wickedness; God as creator of the heavenly
 beings and luminaries; God as future judge; mankind’s submission to
 God; the fate of the just and the wicked; religious life; first-born sons of
 God in praise of him; the use of insight; God’s eternal plant: the saints;
 God’s providence; the distribution of the portions of the elect; the
 farmer and the garden of Eden; Warning: God is to try man. Cf. T.
 Elgvin, ‘The Reconstruction of Sapiential Work A’, RQ16 (1995), 559
80.
 For the editio princeps, see J. Strugnel and D. J. Harrington, DJD,
 XXXIV, 1-503 (4Q415-418c and 1Q26), and T. Elgvin, ibid., 505-33
 (4Q423).
4Q416, fr. 1 (=4Q418, fr. 2)
 From heaven He judges the work of wickedness
 and al the sons of truth wi l be accepted ...
 ... [until] his end
 and al those who have walowed in it
 shal be frightened and scream.
 For heaven ...
 The waters and abysses shal be frightened,
 and al the spirits of flesh shal be laid bare.
 And the sons of heaven ... its [jud]gement.
 And al injustice wi l yet come to an end
 and the age of trut[h] wi l be completed ...
 ... in a l the everlasting ages.
 For He is the God of truth, and from the beginning
 of years ...
 to establish righteousness between good and ev[il].
 ...
 [For] his is a fleshly [in]clination
 and his foundation ...
 4Q416, fr. 2 i (4Q417 2 i, 4Q418 8, 21, 22,
 4Q418a
 [for] He opens His mercies ...
 ...
 and to give nourishment to al the living.
 If he keeps his hand tight,
 the spirit of a l flesh is gathered in.
 Do not take ...
 ... and the debtor ... let him quickly repay (his debt).
 As for you, settle with him,
 for you must keep an eye on your money purse.
At[tend] your creditor on behalf of your friend
 and you have gi[ven] al your life for (?) him.
 Give quickly what is his and take [your] purse.
 Let your spirit not diminish because of your words;
 do not exchange your holy spirit for any wealth,
 for no price equals it ...
 For no man thrusts you away.
 With favour seek His face
 and speak according to His tongue
 and you wil then find your pleasure
 ... do not ...
 Do not abandon your precepts
 and take care of yourself with your mysteries.
 If he assigns you some work to do,
 do not rest or give sleep to your eyes
 until you have done
 [his] command[ments] ...
 [and] do not add ...
 And if it is to be humbled, do not ...
 Lift up your eyes and see
 that man’s zeal is great
 for deceitful is the heart more than every ...
 And also by His gentle wisdom you wil hold fast to His service
 ... you wi l consult with him.
 And you wil be his first-born son
 and (he wil) have compassion on you
 like a man on his only son;
 ... for you are his servant and his chosen one
 Do not trust ...
 and do not keep awake because of ...
 and become for him like a slave ...
 Do not strike him who is without your strength
 lest you stumble and your shame increase greatly.
 [Do not s]el yourself for wealth
 it is better for you to be a slave in spirit.
 And serve your master freely
And do not sel your glory for a price.
 Do not give money in pledge for your inheritance
 lest it impoverish your body.
 Do not satiate yourself with bread while there is no clothing.
 Do not drink wine while there is no food.
 Do not seek luxury when you lack bread.
 Do not glorify yourself in your need if you are poor
 lest you degrade your life.
 Also do not treat with contempt the vessel of your bosom (wife)
 4Q417, fr. 2 i (=4Q416 fr. 2 i)
 ... each time so that he shal not fi l you
 and according to his spirit speak against him ...
 without rebuke.
 Forgive the worthy and ...
 And you shal not swalow up his spirit,
 for you have spoken in whisper ...
 And he has recited quickly his rebuke ...
 Do not overlook your sin ...
 for he is as righteous as you are.
 For he is a prince among pr[inces]
 ... he wi l do.
 For how unique is he in al activity with[out] ...
 Do not reckon an unjust man as a help,
 nor one fi led with hatred ... [apart from] the wickedness
 of his deeds
 at his visitation.
 Know how to walk with him ...
 Let [instr]uction not depart from your heart
 and God wil be for you, yourself.
 Widen ... in your poverty,
 for who is more insignificant than a poor man.
 Do not be joly while in mourning
lest you labour al your life.
 Look at the approaching mystery
 and grasp the sources (or: begetters) of salvation,
 and know who is to inherit glory or injustice.
 Wil they not ...
 and for their mourning everlasting joy.
 ...
 Be an advocate for your business ... al your sins.
 Pronounce your judgement like a righteous ruler.
 Do not ta[ke] ...
 and do not overlook your sin.
 Be like a poor man in your dispute;
 His judgement ... take.
 Then God wil see and His anger wil cease,
 and He wil forgive your sins ...
 [Fo]r before His anger
 no one can stand,
 And who is righteous in His judgement?
 And without pardon, how can the poor [stand firm
 before Him]?
 And as for you, if you are in need of food,
 your need and your plenty ... you wi l make abundant.
 Be led to the sustenance of His delight,
 and take from Him your inheritance
 and do not add agai[n] ...
 [By the word] of his mouth everything is
 and whatever He feeds you with, eat it.
 ... of your life. vacat
 If in your need you borrow money from people
 do not ... day and night
 and there shal be no rest for your soul
 [until] you have repaid [your] creditor [his money].
 Do not lie to him so that you wil not bear guilt for it.
 Furthermore, because of the reproach ...
 You wil not trust his neighbour.
 In your need he wil close his hand.
Your strength ...
 If you receive a stroke ...
 Do not hide from him who strikes you
 So that he wil not reveal your shame ...
 4Q416 2 i (4Q417 2 i 26, 4Q418 9-10)
 ...
 and remember that you are poor ...
 What you lack, you wi l not find ...
 [If someone has left] a deposit with you,
 do not put your hand on it lest it be burnt
 and your body be devoured by its flame.
 A[s you have received] it, so return it
 and you wil rejoice if you have no responsibility for it.
 Accept no goods from someone whom you do not know
 lest he increase your poverty.
 But if he has thrust it on you, let it be a deposit until death,
 but do not let your spirit be destroyed by it.
 Then you wil lie with the truth
 and your memory wil flowe[r for ev]er when you die,
 and your posterity wi l inherit joy.
 You are poor, do not desire anything save your
 inheritance,
 and do not be devoured by it lest you change your
 boundary.
 But if He brings you back to glory, walk in it,
 and in the approaching mystery search its beginnings.
 Then you wil know
 His inheritance and you wi l walk in righteousness
 For God wil shine His face on al your ways.
 Honour Him who glorifies you and praise His name always.
 For your head is above the summit of the mountains
 and He has given you a seat among the nobles
and has made you to rule over an inheritance of glory.
 Seek always His pleasure.
 You are a poor man. Do not say:
 Since I am poor, I wil not seek knowledge.
 Shoulder every discipline
 and with every ... refine your heart,
 and your thoughts with a multitude of understanding.
 Search the approaching mystery
 and consider al the ways of truth,
 and behold al the roots of injustice.
 Then you wil know what is bitter for a man
 and what is sweet for a human being.
 Honour your father in your poverty
 and your mother in your steps.
 For his father is like God to a man
 and his mother like a ruler to a human being.
 For they are the crucible from which you were born
 and as He placed them over you as rulers
 and a frame for the spirit (?), so serve them,
 and as He has revealed to you the approaching mystery,
 honour them for your honour’s sake
 and in ... the splendour of their face
 for your life’s sake and for the length of your days.
 And if you are as poor as ...
 without precept.
 You have taken a wife in your poverty,
 take the offspring ...
 from the approaching mystery
 when you are joined together.
 Walk with the helpmate of your flesh ...
 4Q416 iv (4Q418 10 5-10)
... his father and his mother and he wi l cling [to his wife
 and they wi l become one flesh]
 He made him rule over her
 and she ...
 He did not make her father rule over her
 and He separated her from her mother .
 and towards you [wi l be her longing
 and she wil be] one flesh for you.
 He wil separate your daughter for another
 and your sons ...
 And you wil become one with the wife of your bosom,
 for she is the flesh of your na[kedness]
 and whoever rules over her apart from you
 has changed the boundary of his life.
 He has made you to rule over her spirit
 so that she may walk according to your pleasure.
 Let her not increase vows and free-wi l offerings ...
 Bring back (her?) spirit to your good pleasure,
 and annul by the utterance of your mouth
 every binding oath of hers by which to vow a vow.
 And by your wil, stop her ...
 of your lips ... forgive her for your sake.
 Let her not multiply ...
 4Q417 1 i (4Q418, fr. 43-45 i)
 ... [And] you, O man of understanding, ...
 Look on ...
 and grasp the wonderful mysteries of the God of awe.
 ...
 Look at the approaching mysteries
 And the ancient deeds ...
 ... what was and what wil be ...
 ... in each deed and de[ed] ...
[day and] night he meditates on the approaching mystery
 and studies (it) always.
 Then you wil know truth and injustice,
 wisdom [and foly ... ]
 ... in a l their ways
 together with their visitation
 for a l the eternal ages and everlasting visitation.
 Then you wil know the difference
 between [go]od and evil relating to their deeds.
 For the God of knowledge is the foundation of truth,
 and through the approaching mystery
 He set apart its foundation,
 the work of [His hands] ...
 ... and in pure understanding were revealed
 ... the secrets of his thought
 with his perfect conduct in al his deeds.
 Always seek these eagerly,
 and understand al their results.
 And then you wil know everlasting glory
 and His marvelous mysteries, and the might of His deeds.
 And you wil understand the beginning of your reward
 at the memorial of the time that has come.
 Engraved is the decree and al the visitation is determined.
 For God’s ordinance is engraved
 over al the in[iquities] of the sons of Seth.
 And a book of memorial is written before Him
 for those who keep His word.
 And this is the vision issuing from the meditation
 on the book of memorial. And He gave it as a heritage
 to mankind and to the people of the spirit.
 For his (man’s) shape is modeled on the holy ones,
 but meditation belongs no more to the fleshly spirit,
 for it cannot distinguish between g[ood] and evil
 according to the judgement of its spirit.
 And you, son of understanding, look ... at the approaching mystery
 and know the heritage of al the living.
And his conduct and his visitation ...
 ... whether large or smal ...
 do not be touched by wickedness ...
 [For whoever is touched] by it
 wi l not be innocent.
 According to his inheritance in it
 He wil be wick[ed] ...
 Son of the inteligent,
 Consider your mysteries
 And the foundation of ...
 4Q418, fr. 55
 ... watchfulness wi l be in our heart ...
 and confidence in al our ways. vacat
 ... knowledge,
 and they have not searched for understandi[ng,
 and] ... have not chosen. vacat
 Is [he] not the God of knowledge,
 ... on the truth,
 establishing a l [their ways of un]derstanding?
 He has assigned to al those who inherit truth
 ... watchfulness ...
 Have not peace and quiet... ?
 [Have] you not known ... ?
 For the holy angels ... in heaven
 [and] ... truth.
 And they wil pursue al the roots of understanding,
 And watch over ...
 [And ac]cording to their knowledge
 they wi l be honoured, one more than another,
 and in conformity with his inte ligence
 wi l his honour increase.
 ... Are they (the angels?) inert like man?
Are they quiet like a son of man?
 Are they not... eternity,
 Inheriting an everlasting possession?
 Have you not seen ... ?
 4Q418, fr. 69 (4Q417 5 1-5)
 I...
 And now, O you foolish hearts,
 What good is to (someone) who is not...
 [What] is silence for someone who does not exist,
 and what is judgement if it has no foundation?
 Why do the dead groan over their ...
 ... you have been shaped
 and your return is to eternal destruction.
 For it shal wake up... your sin
 Darkness wi l roar against your dispute.
 And al those who wil exist for ever,
 those who search truth wi l be aroused for your judgement
 [and then] al the foolish hearts wi l be destroyed,
 and the sons of injustice wi l be found no more,
 [and a]l the supporters of wickedness wi l be put to shame.
 The foundations of the firmament scream at your judgement
 and al the ... wi l thunder.
 And you, elect of truth
 and pursuers of [righteousness and] jud[gement]
 ... guardians of a l knowledge,
 how wil you say:
 We labour for understanding
 and keep awake to pursue knowledge
 ... and be not weary in al the years of eternity.
 Wil he not delight in truth for ever
 and knowledge... The s[ons of] heaven whose inheritance is eternal
 life,
Wil they indeed say:
 We have laboured in the works of truth
 and we exhausted ourselves in al the ages.
 Wil they not walk in eternal light
 [and inherit g]lory and great splendour.
 And you, O son of [understanding] ...
 4Q418, fr. 81 (4Q423 8 1)
 Your lips are the opening of a spring to bless the holy,
 and in the eternal spring you have praised...
 The [Hol]y... has separated you from every spirit (bound to)
 flesh.
 As for you, separate from al that He hates,
 and keep away from al the abomination of the soul.
 For He has made al,
 and caused them to inherit each his heritage.
 He is your portion and your heritage among the sons of man,
 [and] He has made you ruler [in] his [her]itage.
 And in this you glorify Him, in consecrating yourself to Him.
 When He made of you the holy of holies for the whole world
 And in al these
 He cast your lot.
 And He has much increased your glory
 and has made you the first-born for Himself among...
 ... and I give you My goodness.
 As for you, is not My goodness for you?
 In His faithfulness He has walked always.
 ... your deeds.
 And as for you, search His judgements from al your accusers
 with al ... love Him,
 and with eternal loving-kindness, and with mercy towards
 al who keep His word.
 And his zeal...
And as for you, He has opened understanding to you and has made
 you the ruler over His treasury
 and appointed [you] a receptacle of truth ...
 ... them with you,
 and to revoke anger from the men of goodwil by your hand.
 And to visit... with you,
 and before you take your heritage from His hand,
 glorify(?) His holy ones;
 and bef[ore] ...
 ... He has opened the [spr]ing of al the holy ones,
 and everyone caled holy by His name ...
 ... with a l the ages,
 his beauty and splendour to become an ever[lasting] plant.
 ... wi l walk a l those who inherit the earth.
 For in heav[en] ...
 And you, O man of understanding,
 if He has made you rule over handcraft
 and know[ledge] ...
 secret (?) to al mortal men.
 And from there you wil seek your prey
 and ... understand much.
 And by al your instructors increase in learning.
 ... bring from your poverty
 to al those who seek pleasure.
 Then you wil establish...
 ... you wi l be fi led
 and you wil be satisfied with plenty of good.
 By the ski l of your hands...
 For God has assigned a heritage to al the [living]
 and al those wise in heart have become inteligent...
 Fr. 103 i
 ... For a l of them wi l seek their times
 and each man according to [his] pleasure...
like a spring of living water which contains a secret.
 ... Do not mix with your merchandise that which...
 Why should it be a mixture like a mule,
 and you should be like one dres[sed in mixed materials],
 in wool and in linen,
 and you should labour with an ox and an ass (yoked) together.
 Your produce also would be like that of one who sows
 mixed seeds.
 Let the seed and the crop and the produce of the [vineyard]
 be holy
 ...
 4Q423,frs. 1, 2
 ... and every fruit that is grown
 and every tree that is pleasant
 and desirable providing understanding.
 Is this not a pl[easant and desirable] garden
 providing much understanding?
 He made you (Adam) rule over it
 to cultivate and guard it. vacat
 ... [the soil] wi l sprout for you thorn and thistle
 and it wi l not give you its strength
 ... because of your unfaithfulness. vacat
 ... she (Eve) gave birth
 and al the sentiments of her who has concei[ved] ...
 ... a l your secrets... and a l your affairs.
 For it wi l sprout [for you] everything...
 ... [knowing] evil, knowing good ...
 4Q423 fr.5 5
... and beware lest you... the judgement of Korah.
 And as He has unstopped your ear...
 ... and the prince of your people...
 He has divided the inheritance of al the rulers
 and the formation of every [dee]d is in His hand.
 He [knows] the reward of [their works
 and] j[udges] them al in truth.
 He visits the sons and the fathers,
 [the sojourners] (proselytes) with a l the natives.
 He wil speak...
 [If you are a f]armer,
 pay attention to the seasons of the summer
 and gather in your produce in its time,
 and the period of...
 ... the good with the evil
 Observe your produce and your work,
 In your labour consider... the good with the bad,
 the inte ligent man with the fool
A Sapiential Work ( i): Ways of Righteousness
 (4Q420-21)
 Two badly fragmented copies of a Wisdom composition portray the
 behaviour of the righteous man in universal terms. However, since the
 vocabulary of 4Q421 1 i echoes the terminology of the Community
 Rule, the whole work may be classified as sectarian.
 For the editio princeps, see T. Elgvin, DJD, XX, 173-202.
 4Q420, fr. 1 (4Q421, fr. 1 i)
 I to practise righteousness in the ways of God (4Q421 ii).
 ... he sha l not reply before he has heard,
 nor shal he speak before he has gained understanding.
 He shal patiently respond and... shal issue a word.
 He shal seek truth (and) judgement
 and by searching righteousness he shal find its outcome.
 A humble and modest man shal not turn back
 until...
 A faithful man shal not depart from the ways of righteousness
 and he shal set his heart on ...
 and the bones (of) his hands on ...
 He shal be redeemed through righteousness;
 through understanding... his fields.
 His territory...
 to [practise ri]ghteousness ...
4Q421, fr. 1a i
 ... [He shal bring al] his wisdom, knowledge, understanding and good
 things [into the Community of God] ... (cf. 1QS 1, 11-12) to regulate al
 (placement of) one before another... the first lot wi l fal. And thus they
 shal set out... (cf. 1QS 11, 21-23).
A Sapiential Work Instruction-like Composition
 (4Q424)
 The main aim of this poetic composition is to instruct the just man how
 to ensure the progress of wisdom by not entrusting its propagation to
 the unworthy. Palaeographicaly it is dated to the second half of the first
 century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see S. Tanzer, DJD, XXXVI, 333-46.
 Fr. 1
 ... and he wi l choose to build it,
 and wil spread plaster on its wal.
 He too ... wi l become loose because of the rain.
 Do not learn a precept in the company of hypocrites
 nor come to the furnace with a totterer,
 for he wi l melt away like lead,
 and wil not stand up to the fire...
 and do not entrust a sleepy man with something delicate,
 for he wi l not treat your work gently...
 Do not send... learning (?),
 for he wi l not smooth down your paths.
 Do not [send... ] a grumbler to procure money for your
 need,
 nor put your trust in a man with twisted lips,
 [for] he wi l surely twist your judgement by his lips.
 His desire wi l not folow the truth,
 ... by the fruit of his lips.
 Do not put a stingy man in charge of mone[y],
... mete out your food according to your desire...
 ... those who bring abundance...
 but at the time of gathering he wi l be found ungodly.
 The short-tempered... the simple,
 for he wi l surely swalow them up ...
 Fr. 3
 ... and he wi l not do his deed by weighing it.
 A man who judges before inquiry,
 and one who believes before ... ,
 do not put him in charge of those who pursue knowledge,
 for he wi l not understand their manner
 so as to justify the just and declare the wicked [wicked];
 he too wil be for contempt.
 Do not send a blind man to bring a vision to the upright;
 li[kewise] do not send a man who is hard of hearing to inquire
 into judgement,
 for he wi l not smooth out a quarrel between people.
 Like one who scatters into the wind...
 ... who does not test,
 so is he who speaks to an ear which does not listen,
 and talks to a man deep asleep through a spirit...
 Do not send a ‘fat-hearted’ (dense) man to acquire thoughts,
 for the wisdom of his heart is hidden,
 and he wil not be in charge o[f his heart],
 and wil not find wisdom for his hands.
 An inteligent man gains un[derstanding],
 a knowing man wil bring forth wisdom...
 an upright man delights in justice,
 a man of truth rej[oices in] ...
 a mighty man is zealous for...
 He is an adversary to al changers of boundaries,
 ... righteousness for the poor of...
He disputes with al who move the boundaries.
 A merciful man [gives] alms to the poor.
 He is concerned for al those without property;
 The sons of righteousness...
The Two Ways
 (4Q473)
 Inspired by Deuteronomy xi, 26-28, this fragmentary text,
 palaeographicaly dated to the end of the first century BCE, is akin to
 the Instruction on the Two Spirits in the Community Rule (1QS 111, 13
IV, 25).
 For the editio princeps, see T. Elgvin, DJD, XX I, 289-99.
 ... and He has placed [before you] t[wo] ways one which is goo[d and
 one which is evil. If you choose the good way], He wil bless you. But if
 you walk in the [evil] way, [He wi l curse you] ... and in your [te]nts, and
 He wil destroy you with ... and mildew, snow, ice and hai[l] ... with al.
Bless, My Soul
 (Barki nafshia-e, 4Q434-438)
 Cave 4 has yielded five manuscripts (4Q434-438) of a poetic
 composition designated by the opening words of the first section as
 Barki nafshi or ‘Bless, my soul’. A sixth manuscript (4Q439) is said to
 be akin to it. The pieces translated are not unlike some of the
 Thanksgiving Hymns, but include no sectarian features.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Weinfeld and D. Seely, DID, XXIX,
 255-334.
 4Q434, fr. I
 Bless, my soul, the Lord
 for a l His marvels for ever,
 and may His name be blessed.
 For He has delivered the soul of the poor,
 and has not despised the humble,
 and has not forgotten the misery of the deprived.
 He has opened His eyes towards the distressed,
 and has heard the cry of the fatherless,
 and has turned His ears towards their crying.
 He has been gracious to the humble by His great kindness,
 and has opened their eyes to see His ways,
 and [thei]r e[ar]s to hear His teaching.
 He has circumcised the foreskin of their heart,
 and has delivered them because of His kindness,
 and has directed their feet towards the way.
 He has not forsaken them amid the multitude of their
misery,
 neither has He handed them over to the violent,
 nor has He judged them together with the wicked.
 [He has] not [directed] His anger against them,
 neither did he annihilate them in His wrath.
 While al His furious wrath was not growing weary,
 He has not judged them in the fire of His ardour,
 but He has judged them in the greatness of His mercy.
 The judgements of His eyes were to try them,
 and He has brought His many mercies among the nations,
 [and from the hand of] men He has delivered them.
 He has not judged them (amid) the mass of nations,
 and in the midst of peoples He has not judged [them].
 But He hid them in [His] ...
 He has turned darkness into light before them,
 and crooked places into level ground,
 He has revealed to them abundance of peace and truth.
 He has made their spirit by measure,
 and has established their words by weight,
 and has caused them to sing(?) like flutes.
 He has given them a [perfect] heart,
 and they have walked in the w[ay of His heart],
 He has also caused them to draw near to the w[ay of his
 heart].
 For they have pledged their spirit.
 He sent and covered them and commanded that no plague
 [should affect them].
 His angel fixed his camp around them;
 He guarded them lest [the enemy?] destroy them.
 Fr. 1 i
 I... in [their] misery [and] afflicti[on]s [and] He de[liver]ed them [from] a l
 affliction.
 ... and Thou hast done for them against the sons of man and Thou hast
delivered them for Thy sake.
 ... and they expiated for their iniquities and the iniquities of their
 fathers, and they atoned in wa[ter] ...
 ... by Thy judgements and to the way which Thou didst teach again...
 Fr. 2
 ... to comfort the poor woman for her mourning... ... the nations to
 [des]truction and He wi l raze the peoples. And the wicked...
 Renew the works of the heaven and of the earth,
 And they wil exult and [the whole earth] wi l be fi led with His glory
 He wil atone [for] their [guilt] and great goodness wi l comfort them.
 ... eating its fruit and goodness.
 Like a man comforted by his mother, so wil He comfort them in
 Jerusal[em.
 Like a bridegroom] with the bride, so wi l He dwel[l] with her [for e]ver.
 [Fo]r His throne is for ever and ever and His glory ... and al the nations.
 ... the arm[y of heav]en wi l be in it and their delightful [l]and...
 I wi l bless the ... ... Blessed be the name of the Most Hi[gh] ...
 Fr. 7b
 ... their portions from there from the des[ert to] the gate of hope.
 And He made a covenant with them for peace with the birds [of
 hea]ven and the beasts of the field.
 He made manure of their enemies, He ground Edom and Moab into
 dust...
 4Q436 (combined with 4Q435i)
 I understanding to strengthen the contrite heart and the spirit (which is)
 in it for ever; to comfort the weak in the time of their distress and the
hands of the falen so that they may rise; to make instruments of
 knowledge; to give knowledge to the wise and the upright to increase
 understanding; so that they may understand Thy deeds which Thou
 hast done in the years of old, in the years of al generations. Eternal
 understanding which... before me, and Thou keepest Thy law before
 me and Thou hast entrusted Thy covenant to me. And Thou dost
 strengthen the heart... to walk in Thy ways. Thou hast visited my heart
 and Thou hast sharpened my kidneys (affections) that they may not
 forget Thy precepts.... Thou hast... Thy law. Thou hast opened my
 kidneys and hast strengthened me to pursue Thy ways... Thou hast
 made my mouth into a sharp sword and opened my tongue for words
 of holiness. And Thou hast set discipline [on them] that they may not
 meditate on man’s actions, on the whisper of his lips. Thou hast
 strengthened my feet... and with Thy hand Thou hast strengthened my
 right hand. And Thou hast sent me on the straigh[t path].
 ... Thou hast chased away from me. And Thou hast placed a pure
 heart in its stead; Thou hast chased away the evil inclination [from my]
 ...
 I And Thou hast placed [the spirit of holine]ss into my heart and hast
 taken away from me the eyes of fornication. And Thou hast looked
 ... Thy [wa]ys; Thou hast removed from me the stiff neck and
 replaced it with humility. Thou hast taken away [from me] the rage of
 anger and hast placed in me the spirit of patience [4Q435, fr. 1]. A
 haughty heart and lofty eyes Thou hast... from me ... to me. Thou hast
 blotted out the spirit of lies [4Q435 i] ... hast given me ...
 4Q437 (combined with 4Q434-5)
 Fr. 2 i
 I... from the congregation of the seekers after...
 They have concealed [a net] to catch me and they pursued [my] sou[l].
 ... their [swor]d penetrated their heart and their bows were broken.
[For al thi]s I wi l bless Thy name during my life, for Thou hast delivered
 me from the trap of the nations ... [peo]ples.
 Thy mercies are a shield around me and Thou hast guarded my soul
 among the nations...
 Thou hast [not] made my friends ashamed of me.
 I have not forgotten Thy precepts.
 In the affliction of [my] soul [Thou hast not forsaken me, and] Thou hast
 not hidden Thy face from my supplications.
 Thou hast seen al my moanings and my iniquitie[s] ...
 When my spirit was fainting, Thou hast listened to my voice.
 [Thou hast hildden [me] in Thy quiver [and] ... me.
 Thou hast made of me a pointed arrow; Thou hast concealed me in the
 hiding place of Thy palm.
 [... and from the mud] Thou hast delivered me lest I sink in it, and from
 the stream of the gentiles lest it sweep me away and from... and I sank
 in its depth.
 And from hel Thou hast brought up my soul.
 Thou hast placed life [before me] and Thou hast seated the
 congregation of the men of marvels before me.
 And among the children of righteousness Thou hast comforted me.
 And according to the line of judgement Thou hast cheered up my soul,
 And according to the weight of justice Thou hast vivified my spirit.
 I bless the Lord with al[l my power and I praise] His [g]oodness with the
 joy of my heart.
 I have remembered Thee, O Lord, and my heart is firm b[efo]re Thee.
 I have hoped in Thy salvation, O Lord... I have remembered.
 And my heart has rejoiced and my horn wil rise towards Thee.
 My soul thirsts. [My] soul [c]leaves to Thee. On thy deeds wil I
 meditate.
 I have remembered Thee on my [couc]h during the watches of the
 night.
A Leader’s Lament
 (4Q439)
 Two smal fragments have survived of a poetic lament by a person in
 authority. The text is too smal to alow us to determine whether these
 are the words or pseudepigraphic words of a head of the sectarian
 community.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Weinfeld and D. Seely, DJD, XXIX,
 335-41.
 Fr. 1 i
 I... [to] assemble the right[eous] of my people and to establish the way
 of life ...
 [to brin]g into the covenant the men of my company... my inheritance.
 Therefore my eyes are a spring of water... discipline and those who wi l
 stand up after them, who ...
 And behold my whole city has changed into thorns...
 [Be]hold al my judges have become fooli[sh] ... my righteous ones
 simple-minded, wh[o] ... traitors...
Fight against Evil Spirits
 (4Q444)
 The main purpose of the person reciting this prayer, of which six smal
 fragments have survived, is to curse the spirits of wickedness. The
 genre is the same as 4Q510-11.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Chazon, DJD, XXIX, 367-78.
 Fr. 1-4 i
 I As for me, on account of my fear of God He has opened my
 mouth,
 And through His holy spirit... truth for a l [thes]e.
 They have become spirits of dispute in my body,
 Precept[s of] ... [from] the frame of the flesh.
 And God has placed in [my] h[eart]
 the spirit of knowledge and understanding, truth and
 righteousness...
 And fortify yourself by the precepts of God,
 And to fight against the spirit of wickedness and not...
 His judgements. Cursed be ...
Songs of the Sage
 (4Q510-11)
 Scraps of two manuscripts from Cave 4 (4Q510-11) represent a
 mixture of sapiential psalms and poems of exorcism. Their editor, M.
 Bai let (DJD, VI, 215-62), assigns the script to the end of the first
 century BCE, or the turning of the era. The first fragment preserves an
 interesting list of names of demons.
 4Q510
 ... praises. Ben[edictions for the K]ing of glory. Words of thanksgiving
 in psalms of... to the God of knowledge, the Splendour of power, the
 God of gods, Lord of al the holy. [His] domini[on] is over al the
 powerful mighty ones and by the power of his might al shal be terrified
 and shal scatter and be put to flight by the splendour of the dwel[ling]
 of his kingly glory. And I, the Master, proclaim the majesty of his beauty
 to frighten and ter[rify] a l the spirits of the destroying angels and the
 spirits of the bastards, the demons, Lilith, the howlers (?) and [the
 yelpers ...] they who strike suddenly to lead astray the spirit of
 understanding and to appal their heart and their... in the age of the
 domination of wickedness and the appointed times for the humiliation
 of the sons of ligh[t], in the guilt of the ages of those smitten by iniquity,
 not for eternal destruction but for the humiliation of sin. Exalt, O just, the
 God of marvels. My psalms are for the upright... May al whose way is
 perfect exalt him.
4Q511, fr. 1
 ... [on the ea]rth and in al the spirits of his dominion always. Let the
 seas b[le]ss him in their turn and al the creatures living in them. May
 they proclaim the ... of beauty al of them. Let them rejoice before the
 God of justice with shouts of salvation, for there shal be no destroyer in
 their territories, and no spirit of wickedness sha l walk in there. For the
 glory of the God of knowledge has shone forth in his words, and none
 of the sons of iniquity shal endure.
 Fr. 2
 I For the Master. [First] Song. Praise the name of his holiness; al who
 know [justice], exalt him... He put an end to the chief of the dominations
 without... eternal [joy] and everlasting life, to cause light to shine ... his
 [l]ot is the best of Jacob and the inheritance of G[o]d ... of Israel ... they
 who guard the way of God and the pat[h] of his [hol]iness for the saints
 of his people. By the discerning knowledge [of Go]d, he placed Israel
 in twelve camps ... the lot of God with the ange[ls] of the luminaries of
 his glory. In his name the praises... he has established for the feast of
 the year and for a common government that they may walk [in] the lot of
 [God] according to [his] glory [and] serve him in the lot of the people of
 his throne. For the God of...
 Fr. 8
 [For the Master]. Second [S]ong to frighten those who terrify him...
 Fr. 18
 I I have hated al the works of impurity. For God has caused the
 knowledge of understanding to shine in my heart. Just chastisers
(deal) with my perversity, and faithful judges with a l my sinful guilt. For
 God is my judge and by the hand of a stranger [He] shal not ...
 Frs. 28-9
 ... [they sha l] rejoice in God with jubilation. And I [wi l thank Th]ee for,
 because of Thy glory, Thou hast [s]et knowledge on my foundations of
 dust to pr[aise Thee].... out of a shape [of clay] was I moulded and from
 darkness was I kneaded... and iniquity is in the limbs of my flesh ...
 Fr. 30
 Thou hast sealed... the [e]arth ... and they are deep. [The heavens and
 the heavens of the] heavens, and the abysses and the dar[k places of
 the earth] ... Thou, O my God, hast sealed them al and there is none to
 open (them) ... Does one measure by the holow of a human hand the
 waters of the great (ocean)? Are [the heavens estimated by the span
 (of fingers)? In one third (of a measure)] can any contain the dust of the
 earth, and weigh the mountains in a balance, or the hils in scal[es]?
 Man did not make these. How can he measure the spirit of [God]?
 Fr. 35
 ... God in al flesh, and an avenging judgement to destroy wickedness,
 and for the raging anger of God towards those seven times refined.
 God shal sancti[fy] (some) of the holy as an everlasting sanctuary for
 himself, and purity shal endure among the cleansed. They shal be
 priests, his righteous people, his host, servants, the angels of his glory.
 They shal praise him with marvelous prodigies. I, I spread the fear of
 God in the ages of my generations to exalt the name ... [to terrify] by his
 might al[l] the spirits of the ‘bastards’, subduing them by [his] fear...
Frs. 63-4
 I ... I wi l bless Thy name and in my appointed periods I wi l recount Thy
 marvels and I wil engrave them as precepts of Thy glory’s praises. At
 the beginning of every thought of a knowing heart and (with) the
 offering of that which flows from the righteous lips when ready for al
 true worship and with al...
 Fr. 63
 I As for me, my tongue shal extol Thy righteousness, for Thou hast
 released it. Thou hast placed on my lips a fount of praise and in my
 heart the secret of the commencement of al human actions and the
 completion of the deeds of the perfect of way and the judgements
 regarding al the service done by them, justifying the just by Thy truth
 and condemning the wicked for their guilt. To announce peace to al
 the men of the Covenant and to utter a dreadful cry of woe for al those
 who breach it ... IV May they bless al Thy works always and blessed
 be Thy name for ever and ever. Amen, amen.
Beatitudes
 (4Q525)
 The title given to this piece of wisdom poetry, consisting of fifty mostly
 smal fragments palaeographicaly dated to the second half of the first
 century BCE, derives from the repeated use of ‘Blessed’ (’ashre),
 modeled on Ps. i, 1, and recaling the Beatitudes of the New
 Testament (Matth. v, 3-11). The main structural difference between
 Matthew and 4Q525 lies in that the former each time lists the reward of
 the virtue for which people are blessed, whereas the Cave 4 text
 provides ordinary, mostly antithetic, para lelisms instead.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXV, 115-78.
 Fr. 2
 I [Blessed is] ... with a pure heart
 and does not slander with his tongue.
 Blessed are those who hold to her (Wisdom’s) precepts
 and do not hold to the ways of iniquity.
 Blessed are those who rejoice in her,
 and do not burst forth in ways of foly.
 Blessed are those who seek her with pure hands,
 and do not pursue her with a treacherous heart.
 Blessed is the man who has attained Wisdom,
 and walks in the Law of the Most High.
 He directs his heart towards her ways,
 and restrains himself by her corrections,
 and always takes delight in her chastisements.
 He does not forsake her when he sees distress,
 nor abandon her in time of strain.
 He wil not forget her [on the day of] fear,
and wil not despise [her] when his soul is afflicted.
 For always he wil meditate on her,
 and in his distress he wi l consider [her?]
 ...
 [He wi l place her] before his eyes,
 so as not to walk in the ways of [foly].
 ...
 Fr. 5
 ...
 [Do not] forsake your [inheri]tance [to the nations]
 nor your portion to strangers...
 For the wise... wi l instruct with sweetness.
 Those who [f]ear God observe her (Wisdom’s) ways
 and walk in [al] her precepts
 and do not reject her corrections.
 The inteligent wi l bring out...
 [and al] those who walk in perfection
 wi l turn aside injustice,
 but they wi l not reject her admonitions
 and wil carry [her] ...
 The sensible wi l recognize her ways
 [and meditate on (?)] her depths.
 ... wi l look.
 Those who love God wil withdraw to it (Wisdom) ...
 Fr. 14 i
 I... your feet wi l [walk] in an open place and you wi l advance on
 the high grou[nd of] your [e]nemy.
 [You wi l love God with al your heart and with al] your soul, and
 He wil deliver you from al evil.
 Terror wi l not come upon you... He wi l make you inherit.
 He wil fi l your days with good and you wil w[alk] in great peace
 ... you wi l inherit glory.
And you wil end up in the eternal resting place...
 And al who know you wil walk together folowing your teaching;
 ... wi l mourn together and wi l remember you in your ways.
 For you were g[ood] ...
 And now, listen to me, O man of understanding,
 And let your mind be attentive to the utter[ances of my lips].
 Alow knowledge to enter your heart (literaly: bely) ...
 Express [your] utterances with just humility [and] give [not] ...
 [Do not] turn against the words of your friend so that he wi l not...
 to you.
 Answer as is proper to him who listens to you.
 Beware...
 [Do not] pour out your thought before you have heard their
 words... greatly.
 First listen to their utterance and afterwards answer ... [With
 long-]suffering express them and answer correctly among
 princes.
 ... with your lips and a stumbling block of the tongue.
 Beware greatly... lest you are caught by your lips
 As wel as ensnared by [your] tongue ... ... unseemly words...
 from me and were twisted...
F. Bible Interpretation
 ‘The Targum of Job’, Israel Antiquities Authority
 Introductory Note
 Five types of biblical commentary have been recovered from the
 Qumran caves.
 The first and least developed form of exegesis is contained in the
 so-caled ‘Reworked Pentateuch’ texts, consisting of a quasi
traditional text of the Bible, occasionaly rearranged and
 supplemented. To this category belong 4Q158, 364-7, 422, 382, etc.
 The Temple Scrol (11Q19-20) may also be assigned to this group, as
 wel as the fairly, though not strictly, literal Aramaic translations or
 Targums of the Hebrew Scriptures (4Q156-7; 11Q10), to which should
be added some smal fragments of the Greek Bible from Caves 4 and
 7.
 The second type, represented by the Genesis Apocryphon, sets out
 to render the Bible story more inteligible and attractive by giving it
 more substance, by reconciling conflicting statements, and by
 reinterpreting in the light of contemporary standards and beliefs any
 passages which might seem to give offence. In a somewhat similar
 manner, a Commentary on Genesis from Cave 4 (4Q252) attempts to
 adjust the chronology of the Flood to the specific sectarian calendar of
 the Qumran Community.
 The third type of commentary departs from the biblical text and,
 relying on one or several passages, creates a new story. Among
 others, the Admonition associated with the Flood (4Q370, 185), the
 Words of Moses (1Q22), the New Jerusalem texts (4Q554-5, 5Q15,
 etc.) and the Prayer of Nabonidus (4Q242), inspired by Genesis,
 Deuteronomy, Ezekiel and Daniel respectively, come into this
 category.
 The fourth and most characteristic form of exegesis applies
 prophetic texts to the past, present and future of the sect. Normaly the
 commentator expounds a biblical book verse by verse, e.g. Isaiah
 (4Q161-4); Nahum (4Q169); Habakkuk (1QpHab); the Psalms
 (4Q171, 173), etc., but some works - A Midrash on the Last Days
 (4Q174), The Heavenly Prince Melchizedek (11Q13), etc. - folow the
 traditional Jewish example and assemble passages from different
 parts of Scripture in order to develop a common theme.
 Fina ly, a substantial amount of free compositions modeled on the
 Bible, e.g. Jubilees (4Q216-28), Enoch and the Giants (4Q201-12,
 530-33), or circulating together with the Bible, e.g. the Para-Danielic
 fragments (4Q243-5), and works attributed to Noah (1Q19, etc.), the
 Patriarchs Levi (4Q213-14, 537-41), Moses (4Q374-7, 390), and
 many others constitute a fifth category of exegesis. In one way, the
 Aramaic and Hebrew manuscripts of one of the Apocrypha, the Book
 of Tobit (4Q196-200), pertain to this class.
Aramaic Bible Translations
 (Targums)
 Two books of the Hebrew Bible have survived in Aramaic translation in
 the Qumran caves. A smal scrol, found in Cave 11 and measuring
 109 cm, has preserved in Aramaic a large portion of the last seven
 chapters of the Book of Job. Twenty-seven smaler fragments cover
 parts of Job xvii, 14 to xxxvi, 33. This text, together with smal remains
 from Cave 4 of Leviticus (4Q156=xvi, 12-21, see below) and of
 another manuscript of Job (4Q157=iii, 5-9; iv, 16-v, 4), represent the
 oldest extant Aramaic renderings of the Hebrew Bible. The translation
 of Job frequently differs from the customary text of the Hebrew Bible,
 but it is unclear whether the divergences are due merely to the difficulty
 of translating poetry, or to a Hebrew original not identical with the
 traditional Scripture.
 Hebrew Jobxl, 12
 Look on every one that is proud and bring him low; and tread
 down the wicked where they stand.
 11 Qar Job
 And every proud spirit you wil smash; and extinguish the
 wicked below them.
 It is clear, on the other hand, that the prose narrative of xlii, 9-11
 displays notable departures from the text known to us, as may be seen
 from the folowing paralel translations:
 Hebrew Job xl i
 (9) So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar
 the Naamathite went and did what the Lord had told them; and
the Lord accepted Job’s prayer. (10) And the Lord restored the
 11 Qar Job
 (9)... God. God heard the voice of Job and forgave them (his
 friends’) their sins because of him. (10) And God returned
 fortunes of Job, when he had prayed for his friends; and the
 Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. (11) Then
 came to him al his brothers and sisters and al who had known
 him before, and ate bread with him in his house; and they
 showed him sympathy and comforted him for al the evil that the
 Lord had brought upon him; and each of them gave him a piece
 of money (or: sheep) and a ring of gold. to Job with mercy and
 doubled al that he had owned. (11) Al his friends, brothers and
 acquaintances came to Job and they ate bread with him in his
 house, and they comforted him for al the misery that God had
 brought on him and each gave him a ewe-lamb and a ring of
 gold.
 The English version provided below (Job xxxvii, 11 to xlii, 11) should
 therefore be read side by side with the translation of the canonical Job.
 It wi l be noticed that Job xxxix, 24 is missing from the Aramaic and xlii,
 3 is replaced by xl, 5. Furthermore, in Job xxxviii, 7 the phrase ‘angels’
 is substituted for ‘sons of God‘, a doctrinaly suspect expression since
 Jews rejected the idea of God having children. The same substitution
 is found in the Greek Septuagint and the Targum of Job used in
 rabbinic Judaism. Similarly the Targum to Lev. xvi, 14 and xvi, 20
 (4Q156) specifies, as do the later Targums, that ‘the Holy’ designates
 ‘the House of Holiness’ or ‘Sanctuary’. In short, the Qumran Targums
 prefigure to some extent the style of the later Targums without
 attesting, however, the exegetical expansions which characterize the
 Palestinian Targums to the Pentateuch.
 For the editio princeps of 11Q10, see J. P. M. van der Ploeg et al.,
 Le Targum de Job de la grote XI de Qumrân (Leiden, 1971); for a
 new edition, see F. Garcia Martinez, E. J. C. Tigchelaar and A. S. van
 der Woude, DJD, XX I, 79-180. For the Targums of Leviticus and Job
 (4Q156, 157), see J. T. Milik, DJD, VI, 85-91.
The Targum of Job
 (11Q10,4Q157)
 XXV I (Job xxxvi, 24-30)
 (24) [Re]member that His works which they see are great.
 (25) Every man looks at Him,
 and the sons of men from afar search for Him.
 (26) Behold, God is great,
 and His days are numerous beyond knowledge
 and the sum of His years is infinite.
 (27) Behold, [He counts] the [rain] clouds
 and He establishes the downpours.
 (28) And His clouds let down dr[ops of water
 on] a multitude of people.
 (29) If He who spreads [the] cl[ouds] of His thunder
 and spreads [His] light [... and co]vers.
 For by them He judges peoples...
 XXIX (Job xxxvi)
 (11) With it (water) He wipes the cloud[s],
 and brings fire out of the cloud.
 (12) He speaks and they listen to Him
 and proceed with their works.
 He appoints them over al
 that He has created on earth:
 (13) either for striking or for (benefiting) the
 earth;
 either for famine or shortage;
 or for something good to be on it.
 (14) Listen to this, Job, and arise!
Observe the might of God.
 (15) [Do you] know what God has put on them
 and how He has made light to shine from the cloud?
 (16) [Do you k]now how to robe the cloud with
 mi[ght]?
 (17) Because your robe ...
 For He possesses knowledge...
 (18) [Do you know how to] beat the cloud
 [to] compress [it into a mir]ror?
 (19) He knows...
 XXX (Job xxxv i)
 (3) Please gird [your] lo[ins] like a man,
 [and I wi l que]stion you and you wi l answer me.
 (4) Where were you when I made the earth?
 Explain it to me if you possess wisdom.
 (5) Do you know who fixed its measures?
 Who stretched a line over it?
 (6) Or to what were its foundations joined
 or who set its cut stone
 (7) when the morning stars were shining together
 and al the angels of God exclaimed together?
 (8) Can you shut in the sea with gates
 when it bursts forward from the womb of the abyss,
 (9) when the clouds were made into its robe
 and the haze its swaddling-clothes.
 (10) Can you set boundaries to it ... ?
 (11) Did you say, Up to here!
 And you must not go beyond... [your wa]ves.
 (12) In your days did you order [the morning]
 (13)... the win[gs] of the ear[th] ...
 XXXI (23)...
 for the day of battle and revolt.
 (24) ... from where wi l (the wind) go out
 and wil it blow before Him on the earth?
 (25) Who fixed a time for the rain
and a path for the quick clouds
 (26) to bring it (the rain) down to a land of wilderness
 with no man on it,
 (27) to satiate the low-lying and isolated (places)
 to produce sprouting grass.
 (28) Has the rain a father
 and who begets the mist of dew?
 (29) And from whose womb did ice come out
 ...
 (30) The waters contracted like a st[one] because of
 Him,
 and the face of the ab[yss?] ...
 (31)... Pleiades or the fence of Orion ...
 XXXI (Job xxxix)
 (1) the mountain goats, and the birth p[angs] ...
 (2) ... their months are completed,
 and do you know when they give birth,
 (3) delivering their young and ejecting them,
 and do you send away their birth pangs?
 (4) They raise their young and make them go;
 they depart and do not come back to them.
 (5) Who has set the wild ass free
 and who has loosed the onager’s rope,
 (6) to whom I gave the desert for his home
 and made the salty land his dweling.
 (7) He laughs at the great commotion of the city
 and his master’s urging he does not hear.
 (8) He chooses for himself mountains for [pasture]
 and he goes after everything green.
 (9) Does the wild ox wish to serve you
 or wi l he lodge in your stable?
 (10) Wi l you tie [the wild ox] with a yoke
 and wil he plough(?) in the valey [aft]er you?
 And wil you...
 Wil you depend on hi[m because] great is
 [his strength]?
XXX I
 (20) Wi l you frighten him (the horse) with a strong...
 his... is fear and dread.
 (21) He searches out the valey, he trembles and
 rejoices,
 and mightily advances towards the sword.
 (22) He laughs at fear and does not shudder,
 and does not turn back from the sword.
 (23) Upon him hangs a lance,
 a javelin and a sharp sword,
 (25) and at the sound of the trumpet, he says, Aha,
 and from afar he smels the battle,
 and he enjoys the rattle of the weapons and the war
 cries.
 (26) Does the hawk get excited because of your wisdom
 and spread his wings towards the winds?
 (27) Or does [the eagle] rise at your order
 and the bird of prey build [its] nest on high?
 (28) It dwels on the rock and nests...
 XXXIV (Job xl) ...
 (6) [From...] and from the cloud
 God answered Job and said to him:
 (7) Like a man, please gird your loins;
 I wi l question you, and you wi l answer me.
 (8) Would you indeed tear up the judgement
 and declare me guilty so that you may be
 innocent?
 (9) Or do you have an arm like God
 or thunder with a voice like his?
 (10) Throw away, please, pride and haughtiness
 and you wil put on splendour, glory and honour.
 (11) Throw away, please, the heat of your wrath
 and observe every proud man and humble him.
 (12) And every proud spirit you wi l smash
 and you wil extinguish the wicked [in] their
 [pl]aces.
(13) And hide them al in the dust
 [and] cover [with a]shes ...
 XXXV
 (23) ... the Jordan its banks,
 he (the hippopotamus) trusts that he wi l get it.
 (24) When he lifts his eyes, who wi l restrain him,
 ... his nose with a hook.
 (25) Wi l you pul a crocodile with a hook
 or tie up its tongue with a rope?
 (26) Wi l you put a muzzle on his nose
 and wil you pierce his cheek with your chisel?
 (27) Wi l he speak gently with you
 or wi l he speak with you pleadingly?
 (28) Wi l he make a covenant with you
 or wi l you handle him as a slave for ever?
 (29) Wi l you play with him like a b[ird,
 and] wi l you bind him with a string for your
 daughters?
 XXXVI (Job xli)
 (8) They cling to one another
 and no breath passes between them.
 (9) One holds to another,
 and they do not separate.
 (10) His sneezing lights fire between his
 eyes
 like the shine of dawn (?).
 (11) Torches come forth out of his mouth;
 they leap like tongues of fire.
 (12) From his nostrils smoke goes forth
 like burning thorn and incense.
 (13) His breath spews out coals
 and sparks come out of his mouth.
 (14) His strength dwels in his neck
 and vigour springs before him.
 (15) The folds of his flesh are clinging,
 mould[ed over him] like iron.
(16) [His] heart... like stone
 XXXVI (Jobxli-xl i)
 (26) ...
 and he is king over al the reptiles.
 (1) Job answered and said before God:
 (2) I know that Thou canst do al things
 and dost not lack in strength and wisdom.
 (xl, 5) I have spoken once and wi l not
 revoke it,
 a second time, and I wil not add to it.
 (xlii, 4) Listen, please, and I wi l speak;
 I wi l question you and you must answer me.
 (5) I had heard of you by the hearing of the
 ear
 and now my eyes see you.
 (6) Therefore I am melting and dissolve
 and become dust and ashes...
 XXXV I (9) ... God. God heard the voice of Job and forgave them their
 sins because of him. (10) And God returned to Job with mercy and
 doubled al that he had owned. (11) Al his friends, brothers and
 acquaintances came to Job and they ate bread with him in his house,
 and they comforted him for al the misery that God had brought on him
 and each gave him a ewe-lamb and a ring of gold.
The Targum of Leviticus
 (4Q156)
 Fr. 1
 And he (Aaron) shal take some [of the blood of the bul and sprinkle it
 with his finger o]n the mercy seat. And before the mercy seat - to the
 east - [he shal sprinkle fr]om the blood with his finger [seven times]
 (Lev. xvi, 14)....
 Fr. 2
 ... Whe[n he has made an end of atoning] for the House of Holiness
 [and for] the tent of meeting and [for the altar, he shal offer] a live goat
 (Lev. xvi, 20)....
Appendix
 (A) GREEK BIBLE TRANSLATIONS (4Q119-22;
 7Q1-2)
 Compared to the quantity of Hebrew and Aramaic manuscripts, the
 Greek documents found in two of the Qumran caves, Caves 4 and 7,
 are remarkably few, and this scarcity is significant in itself as regards
 the cultural identity of the Qumran Community. Those which have been
 identified with certainty belong to the Greek translation of the Bible,
 mostly the Pentateuch. Cave 4 has yielded remains of two scrols of
 Leviticus, one of leather (4Q119) and one of papyrus (4Q120), as wel
 as one of Numbers (4Q121) and of Deuteronomy (4Q122), al dating
 to the second or the first century BCE. On the whole, they represent the
 traditional text of the Septuagint with minor variations such as a word
 being replaced by its synonym (harvesting by threshing, for example,
 or nation by people), but 4QLXX Numbers (4Q121) testifies to an
 effort to bring the LXX closer to the Hebrew Pentateuch. Since the
 translation scarcely differs from the original, there is no purpose in
 reproducing it. However, it is worth noting that in Lev. iv, 27 (4Q120, fr.
 20, 4) the Tetragram (the divine name YHWH) is rendered semi
phonetica ly as Iao, and is not replaced, as was customary later, by the
 Greek Kurios (Lord).
 Among the nineteen minute fragments found in Cave 7 - which
 contained only Greek texts - two have been identified as relics of
 Exodus xxviii, 4-7 (7Q1) and the Letter of Jeremiah, verses 43-4
 (7Q2). The former is said to be closer to the traditional Hebrew text
 than to the LXX. Both are dated to about 100 BCE.
 (B) OTHER GREEK FRAGMENTS (4Q126-7; 7Q3
19)
 The remaining two Greek texts in Cave 4 date roughly to the turn of the
 era. One (4Q126) cannot be identified and the other (4Q127) is either
 a paraphrase of Exodus, mentioning among others Pharaoh, Moses
 and Egypt, or possibly an apocryphal account of Israel in Egypt.
 Seventeen out of the nineteen minute Greek papyrus fragments from
 Cave 7 have been declared by the editors to be unidentifiable. Yet
 against al verisimilitude, several of them have generated sensational
 and even revolutionary claims, especialy that they represented the
 earliest textual examples of the Greek New Testament.
 The contention originated with a Spanish Jesuit, José O‘Calaghan,
 who in 1972 persuaded himself that these hardly legible scraps
 derived from six books of the New Testament: the Gospel of Mark iv,
 28 (7Q6 1), vi, 48 (7Q15), vi, 52-3 (7Q5), xii, 17 (7Q7); the Acts of the
 Apostles xxviii, 38 (7Q6 2); 1 Timothy iii, 16, iv, 1, 3 (7Q4); James i,
 23-4 (7Q8) and even one of the latest New Testament writings, 2 Peter
 i, 15 (7Q10). Of these, the case for Mark vi, 52-3 is purported to be the
 ‘strongest’. The real facts are the folowing. We are dealing with a
 fragment on which the written area measures 3.3 x 2.3 cm. Letters
 appear on four lines; these are of unknown length since both the
 beginning and the end of each line are missing. An unrecognizable
 trace of another letter is observed at the top of the fragment. In the
 editio princeps seventeen letters are identified of which only nine are
 certain. A single complete word has survived: the Greek kai = and!
 The leading experts in the field, the late C. H. Roberts of Oxford and
 the German Kurt Aland, unhesitatingly discarded O‘Calaghan’s theory.
 Roberts jokingly told me that if he wanted to waste his time, he was
 sure he would be able to ‘demonstrate’ that 7Q5 belonged to any
 ancient Greek text, biblical or non-biblical. Yet this unlikely and clearly
 unprovable hypothesis was revived in the 1980s by C. P. Thiede and
 others, only to encounter the same fate of summary dismissal as
 Father O’Calaghan’s a decade or so earlier.
 For the editio princeps of the 4Q and 7Q material, see P. W.
 Skehan and E. Ulrich, DJD, IX (Oxford, 1992), 161-97, 219-42; M.
Bai let et al., DJD, I (Oxford, 1962), 142-6. For the theory that 7Q
 contains New Testament texts, see J. O‘Calaghan, Los papipros
 griegos de la cueva 7 deQumrân (Madrid, 1974), and C. P. Thiede,
 The Earliest Gospel Manuscripts (London, 1992); Re-Kindling the
 Word (Valey Forge, Pa, 1996). For views for and against expressed
 at a symposium, see B. Mayer, ed., Christen und Christliches
 inQumran? (Regensburg, 1992). Against the theory, see C. H.
 Roberts, ‘On Some Presumed Papyrus Fragments of the New
 Testament from Qumran‘, Journal of Theological Studies 23 (1972),
 446-7; K. Aland, ‘Neue neutestamentlische Papyri I‘, New Testament
 Study 20 (1973-4), 357-81. For the latest authoritative views, see G.
 Stanton, Gospel Truth? (London, 1995); E. Puech, ‘Des fragments
 grecs de la grotte 7 et le Nouveau Testament?‘, RB 102 (1995), 570
84; M.-E. Boismard (the first decipherer of the fragment), ‘Apropos de
 7Q5 et Mc. 6, 52-53’, ibid., 102-4.
 The Reworked Pentateuch (4Q158, 4Q364-7)
 Five badly preserved manuscripts have been classified as reworkings
 of the Pentateuch, i.e. copies of the Torah partly entailing
 rearrangements of biblical passages and partly incorporating
 interpretative supplements inserted into the text. The length of the
 supplement varies from a few words to seven or eight lines, the most
 significant example being the long, but broken, addition to the Song of
 Miriam in 4Q365 6a ii, c. Judging from the surviving passages, the
 original Reworked Pentateuch must have been a very substantial
 document, probably the longest of al the Qumran Scrols. Al the
 manuscripts may be dated on palaeographical grounds to the first
 century BCE. Only those texts which contain more or less inteligible
 supplements (printed in italics) are included.
 For the editio princeps of the Reworked Pentateuch, see J. M.
 Alegro, DJD, V, 1-6 (4Q158) and E. Tov and S. White, DJD, X I, 187
351 (4Q364-7).
4Q158, frs. 1-2 (Gen. xxx i, 24-32; Exod. iv, 27-28+Supplement)
 ... And [J]ac[ob] w[as left a]lone there. And [a man] wrestl[ed with him.
 When the man did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his thigh; and
 Jacob’s thigh was put out of joint] as he wrestled with him and he
 seized him. And he said to hi[m, What is your name? ... And he said to
 him, Jacob. And he said, Your name shal be Israel, for you have
 striven with God and with] men and have prevailed. And Jacob asked
 [and] sai[d, Te l me, pray, what is your name. And he said, Why is it
 that you ask my name, and he bless]ed him there. And he said to him,
 ‘May the Lo[rd] make you fruitful [and multiply] you. [May he grant you
 kn]owledge and understanding and may he save you from al violence
 and ... until this day and until everlasting generations. And he went on
 his way after he had blessed him there. And he ... [And] the sun [rose]
 upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his thigh.... on this
 day. And he said, You shal not e[at the sinew of the hip which is] upon
 the two holows of the thigh until [this day. (Exod. iv) And the Lord said]
 to Aaron, Go to me[et Moses in the wilderness. So he went and met
 him at the mountain of God and kissed him. And Moses told Aaron al]
 the words of the Lord with which he had s[ent] him and al [the signs
 which he had charged him to do. And] the Lord [spoke] to me saying,
 When you bring out the [people of Israel] . to go as slaves and
 behold these are [four hundred and] thirty (years] ...
 4Q364, fr. 3 (Supplement+Gen. xxv i, 6)
 I you shal see him ... you shal see in peace ... your death. And upon
 [your] eyes ... [Why should I be bereft of] both of you? (Gen. xxvii, 45)
 And [Isaac] caled [Rebecca his wife and told] her al [these] wor[ds] ...
 after Jacob her son ... And Esau saw that [Isaac had blessed Jacob
 and sent him away to] Pa[dan] Aram to take [a wife] from [there] ...
 4Q365, fr. 6b, 6a i, 6c (Exod. xv, 16-21+Supplement+xv, 22-6)
Fr. 6b
 ... ti l [Thy people, 0 Lord], p[ass by, ti l the people pass by whom thou
 hast purchased.
 Thou wilt bring them in, and plant them] on thine own mountain, the
 place, [0 Lord, which thou hast made] for thine abode, [the sanctuary
 which thy hands have established].
 The Lord wil reign for ever and ever.
 For when [the horses of Pharaoh with his chariots and his horsemen]
 went [into the sea, the Lo]rd [brought back] the waters of the sea upon
 them; but the people of Israel walked on dry ground in the midst of the
 sea.
 [And the water]s were a wal to them on their right and on their left (cf.
 Exod. xiv, 22, 29). [And Miriam the prophetess, sister of Aaron], took
 [a timbrel in her hand; and al]l the women went out after her with
 [timbrels and dancing. And Miriam sang to them,
 Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and his
 rider he has thrown into the sea].
 Fr. 6a ii, 6c
 ... thou hast despised ...
 For pride .
 Thou art great, a saviour .
 The hope of the enemy has perished
 and . has stopped ...
 They have perished in the mighty waters,
 the enemy . and lifts up to their height.
 [Thou hast given a ransom] ...
 ... [he who ac]ts proudly.
 And Moses led [Israe]l onward from the sea, and they went to the
 wilderness of Sh[ur; they went three days and found no water]. They
 came to Marah, but [they] could [not] drink the water of Marah because
[it was] bit[ter; therefore it was named Marah].
 And the people murmured ag[ainst Moses] saying, What shal we
 drink? And Moses cried to [the Lord who showed him] a tree, and he
 threw it into [the wate]r, and the water became sweet. There he made
 for them a statute and [an ordinance and there he proved them. And he
 said], If [you wi l lis]ten di[li]gently [to the v]oice of the Lord your God
 and do that which is right in his eyes and [give heed to his
 commandments and judgements, and keep] al his statutes, [I wil put
 none] of the diseases [upon you] which I put on the Egyptians. For I am
 the Lord, your [heale]r.
 Fr. 23
 (Lev xxii, 42-xxiv, 2+Supplement)
 You shal dwel [in bo]oths for seven days; al that are native in Israel
 shal dwel in booths, tha[t your] gen[erations may kno]w that I made
 your fathers dwel in booths when I brought them out of the land of
 Egypt; I am the Lord you[r] God. vacat And Moses declared to the
 people of Israel the appointed feasts of the Lord. vacat And the Lord
 said to Moses, Command the children of Israel, saying, When you
 enter the land which I am giving to you as an inheritance, and you
 dwel upon it securely, you sha l bring wood for a burnt-o fering and
 for a l the service of [the H]ouse which you sha l build for me in the
 land, to lay it on the altar of burnt-o fering, [and] the calves . for
 Passover sacrifices and peace-o ferings and thank-o ferings and
 free-wi l o ferings and burnt-o ferings daily . and for the doors and for
 al the service of the House you shal ofer . the festival of Oil, the
 twel[ve tribes] they sha l o fer wood . Those who o fer on the first day
 sha l be Levi and . [on the third day, Reu]ben and Simeon, [and on]
 the fou[rth] day .
A Paraphrase of Genesis and Exodus (4Q422)
 Nine fragments of a manuscript written in Hasmonaean characters
 (first half of the first century BCE) contain a paraphrase of Gen. i-iv, vi
ix, judging from disconnected expressions relating to the creation of
 the world by God’s word, to various living creatures, the establishment
 of man as ruler over the rest of beings, the prohibition against eating
 from the tree of knowledge and the rebelion against God which led to
 the flood. Fr. 10 refers to the throwing of Israelite boys into the Nile, the
 commissioning of Moses, his vision of the burning bush, Moses’ and
 Aaron’s encounter with Pharaoh and the plagues which afflicted Egypt.
 The text can be arranged in three columns. Further unidentified
 fragments, which are not included here, are numbered from A to T. If
 the word ywsr in col. 1, line 12 actualy means ‘inclination’, the phrase
 ‘evil inclination’ could be the earliest attestation of the rabbinic
 concept.
 For the editio princeps, see T. Elgvin and E. Tov, DJD, X I, 417-41.
 I ... ... [The heavens and the earth and al] their host He made by [His]
 word. [And God rested on the seventh day from al the work whi]ch He
 had made. And [His] holy spirit ... [al th]e living and creeping
 [creatu]res ... [He put man on the ear]th to rule over it and to eat the
 frui[ts of the ground] ... w[ith]out eating from the tree of kn[owledge of
 good and evil] ... He rose against Him and they forgot ... with an evil
 inclination and for deed[s of] ... peace/payment ...
 I ... [save Noah] and [his] wife and the w[ives of his sons from] the
 waters of the Flood ... God [cl]osed behind them ... the windows of
 heave[n] op[en]ed under al the heav[en ... for] the waters to rise on the
 ear[th forty] days and for[ty] nights was [rain] ov[er] the earth ... and in
 order to know the glory of the Most Hi[gh] ... to reach to Him, He
 enlightened the heaven ... sign for generatio[ns] of eternity ... [and
 never more] wil a flood [destroy the earth] ... the periods of day and
 night ... to shine [o]n heaven and earth ... I ... their [s]ons into the rive[r]
... [And] He sent to them Moses ... in the vision ... in the signs and
 marvels ... And He sent them to Pharaoh ... plagues ... marvels for
 Egypt ... and they carried His word to Pharaoh to send away [their
 people]. But He hardened [his] (Pharaoh’s) heart [to] sin so that the
 m[en of Isra]el might know for eternal gene[rations]. And He changed
 their [wate]rs to blood. Frogs were in al their land and lice in al their
 territories, gnats in their houses and they struck al their ... And He
 smote with pestile[nce al] their flock and their beasts He delivered to
 de[at]h. He pu[t dark]ness into their land and obscurity into their
 [hou]ses so that they could not see one another. [And He smote] their
 land with hail and [their] soil [with] frost to cause [al]l the fruit of
 nourishment [to perish]. And He brought locust to cover the face of the
 ea[rth], heavy locust in a l their territory to eat everything green in [their]
 la[nd] ... And God hardened Ph[araoh’s] heart so that he should not
 [dis]miss [them] ... and in order to increase wonders. [And He smote
 their first-born], the beginning of al[1 their strength] ...
 The Genesis Apocryphon (IQapGen, IQ20)
 Found in Cave 1, and partly published by N. Avigad and Y. Yadin (A
 Genesis Apocryphon,Jerusalem, 1956), IQapGen is an incomplete
 manuscript with twenty-two surviving columns of Aramaic text (cf. also
 IQ20). Remains of a further column, ‘The Genesis Apocryphon Col.
 XI’, have since been edited by J. C. Greenfield and E. Qimron
 (Studies in Qumran Aramaic, Abr-Nabrain, Suppl. 3 (1992), 70-77). A
 preliminary transcription and translation of the rest of the unpublished
 material, deciphered with the help of advanced infra-red technology,
 has been issued by M. Morgenstern, E. Qimron and D. Sinan in ‘The
 Hitherto Unpublished Columns of the Genesis Apocryphon’, Abr
Nabrain 33 (1995), 3—52.
 The beginning of the manuscript is missing. But since the sheet
 starting with col. v is numbered by the Hebrew letter pe, col. x by sade,
 and col. XVI by qoph, i.e. the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth
 letters of the Hebrew alphabet, it would seem that the surviving section
was preceded by sixteen sheets of which only the end of the last one
 has been preserved (cf. M. Morgenstern, ‘A New Clue to the Original
 Length of the Genesis Apocryphon’, JJS 47/2 (1996), 345—7). If so,
 the story of Noah which begins the existing portion of the scrol must
 have been preceded by an extensive account of the creation, Adam
 and Eve, and the Genesis story up to Enoch and Noah. Columns I—V
 narrate the miraculous birth of Noah (on Noah see also the minute
 fragments from 1Q19 and 19bis), whose father, Lamech, suspects that
 his wife has conceived by one of the falen angels. Her denials fail to
 convince him and he asks his father, Methuselah, to travel to Paradise
 and obtain reassurance from his own father, Enoch. Columns VI—XV
 contain Noah’s first-person account of the Flood and of his journeys.
 Col. x describes Noah’s sacrifice after the Flood. Col. XI deals with the
 covenant between God and Noah with a mention of a ban on eating
 blood. Col. XI recounts the planting of a vineyard by Noah and his
 tasting of wine. The badly damaged cols. X I—XV contain a vision
 concerning trees and its interpretation. Two further columns (XVI—
 XVI) deal with the division of the earth among the sons of Noah. Col.
 XV I is completely lost. Cols. XIX—XXI, corresponding to Gen. xii—xv,
 deal with Abraham’s journey to Egypt, his return to Canaan, the war
 against the invading Mesopotamian kings, and the renewal to him of a
 divine promise of a son. This lively and delightful narrative, largely
 devoid of sectarian bias, throws valuable light on inter-Testamental
 Bible interpretation. It is a mixture of Targum, Midrash, rewritten Bible
 and autobiography. Most scholars assign the manuscript to the late
 first century BCE or the first half of the first century CE. The
 composition itself is generaly thought to originate from the second
 century BCE. Its relationship to the mid-second-century Book of
 Jubilees is generaly accepted, but views differ on whether it depends
 on Jubilees or vice versa. I slightly prefer the theory that in its pre
Qumran version the Genesis Apocryphon precedes Jubilees, which
 would postulate for the former a date at least as early as the first half of
 the second century BCE.
 ... I Behold, I thought then within my heart that conception was (due) to
 the Watchers and the Holy Ones... and to the Giants... and my heart
was troubled within me because of this child. Then I, Lamech,
 approached Bathenosh [my] wife in haste and said to her, ‘... by the
 Most High, the Great Lord, the King of al the worlds and Ruler of the
 Sons of Heaven, until you tel me al things truthfuly, if... Tel me [this
 truthfuly] and not falsely... by the King of a l the worlds until you tel me
 truthfuly and not falsely.’
 Then Bathenosh my wife spoke to me with much heat [and] ... said,
 ‘O my brother, O my lord, remember my pleasure... the lying together
 and my soul within its body. [And I tel you] al things truthfuly.’
 My heart was then greatly troubled within me, and when Bathenosh
 my wife saw that my countenance had changed... Then she mastered
 her anger and spoke to me saying, ‘O my lord, O my [brother,
 remember] my pleasure! I swear to you by the Holy Great One, the
 King of [the heavens] ... that this seed is yours and that [this]
 conception is from you. This fruit was planted by you... and by no
 stranger or Watcher or Son of Heaven... [Why] is your countenance
 thus changed and dismayed, and why is your spirit thus distressed... I
 speak to you truthfuly.’
 Then I, Lamech, ran to Methuselah my father, and [I told] him al
 these things. [And I asked him to go to Enoch] his father for he would
 surely learn a l things from him. For he was beloved, and he shared the
 lot [of the angels], who taught him al things. And when Methuselah
 heard [my words... he went to] Enoch his father to learn al things
 truthfuly from him ... his wi l.
 He went at once to Parwain and he found him there... [and] he said
 to Enoch his father, ‘O my father, O my lord, to whom I... And I say to
 you, lest you be angry with me because I come here...
 VI [I abstained] from injustice and in the womb of her who conceived
 me I searched for truth. And when I emerged from my mother’s womb, I
 was planted for truth and I lived al my days in truth and walked in the
 paths of eternal truth. And the Holy One (was) with me ... on my
 pathways truth sped to warn me off the ... of lie which led to darkness ...
 and I girded my loins with the vision of truth and wisdom... paths of
 violence. vacat Then I, Noah, became a man and clung to truth and
 seized... and I took Amzara, his daughter as my wife. She conceived
 and bore me three sons [and daughters]. Then I took wives for my sons
from among my brother’s daughters, and I gave my daughters to my
 brother’s sons according to the law of the eternal precept which the
 Most High [ordained] to the sons of man. vacat And in my days, when
 according to my reckoning... ten jubilees had been completed, the
 (moment) came for my sons to take wives for themselves... heaven, I
 saw in a vision and was explained and made known the action of the
 sons of heaven and... the heavens. Then I hid this mystery in my heart
 and explained it to no man. vacat ... to me and a great and... and in a
 message of the Holy One... and he spoke to me in a vision and he
 stood before me ...
 ... and the message of the great Holy One caled out to me: ‘To you
 they say, O Noah, ...’ and I reckoned the whole conduct of the sons of
 the earth. I knew and explained al... two weeks. Then the blood which
 the Giants had spi led.... I was at ease and waited until... the holy ones
 with the daughters of man... [Then] I, Noah, found grace, greatness and
 truth ... ... ti l the gates of heaven... to men and cattle, and wild beasts
 and birds...
 VI ... on them; the earth and al that is on it, in the seas and on the
 mountains ... a l the constelations of heaven, the sun, the moon and the
 stars and the Watchers...
 ... I sha l reward you... vacat the great Holy One. And I rejoiced in the
 words of the Lord of heaven and I shouted... it ... you al to your
 Master... the King of al the world for ever and ever until al eternity.
 vacat ... [until] the ark rested on one of the mountains of Ararat
 (HWRRT). And eternal fire... And I atoned for the whole earth, al of it.
 And the beginning of... and I burned the fat on the fire. Secondly, ... I
 poured out their blood on the base of the altar and I burned al their
 flesh on the altar. And thirdly the turtledoves... on the altar as an
 offering.... I put on it fine flour mixed with oil and with incense as a meal
 offering.... I put salt on a l of them. And the smel of my offering rose up
 to heaven. vacat ...
 XI ... the mountains and the deserts... ... four... vacat [Then] I, Noah,
 went out and walked on the earth, through its length and breadth...
 delight on her in their leaves and in their fruit. And al the land was fi led
 with grass and herbs and grain. Then I blessed the Lord of heaven who
 made splendid things. He is for ever and praise is his. And I repeated
the blessing on account of his grace for the earth and on account of his
 removing and causing to perish from it al those who do violence and
 wickedness and lies and on account of his rescuing the righteous man
 . vacat [God] was revealed to me and [the Lord] of heaven spoke to
 me and said to me: ‘Do not fear, Noah. I shal be with you and with your
 sons who wil be like you for ever... of the earth and rule over them...
 and over its deserts and its mountains and al that are on them. And
 behold, I give al of it to you and to your sons to eat the green things
 and the grass of the earth. But you shal not eat any blood. Your fear
 and awe... for ever.’...
 XI ... in the mountains of Ararat (HWRRT). And afterwards I
 descended... I and my sons and the sons [of my sons] ... for the
 destruction was great on the earth... after the Flood. To my first son
 [Shem] was born, to begin with, a son, Arpachshad, two years after the
 Flood. [And] al the sons of Shem, al of them, [were Ela]m, and Ashur,
 Arpachshad, Lud and Aram, and five daughters. [And the sons of Ham:
 Kush and Misrai]n and Put and Canaan, and seven daughters. And the
 sons of Japhet: Gomer and Magog and Media and Yavan [and Tu]bal
 and Mashok and Tiras, and four daughters. [And] I began, I and al my
 sons, to fi l the land and I planted a big vineyard on Mount Lubar and in
 the fourth year it produced wine for me ... [And] when the first festival
 c[ame], on the first day of the first festival in the ... month... I opened this
 jar (?) and I began to drink on the first day of the fifth year ... On this day
 I summoned my sons, my grandsons and al our wives and their
 daughters, and we assembled together and we went... and I blessed
 the Lord of heaven, the Most High God, the Great Holy One who saved
 us from perdition...
 X I... they were cutting gold and silver and stones and clay and
 taking part of them for themselves. I saw the gold and the silver ... iron,
 and they cut down every tree and took some for themselves. I saw the
 sun and the moon and the stars cutting and taking some for
 themselves. ... I turned to see the olive tree and behold, the olive tree
 was rising upwards and for many hours... many leaves... appeared in
 them. I observed this olive tree and beheld the abundance of its
 leaves... they tied to it. And I was greatly amazed by this olive tree and
 its leaves. I was amazed... the four winds of heaven were blowing
powerfuly and they damaged this olive tree, breaking off its branches
 and smashing them. First [came] the westerly [wind] and struck it, and
 shook off its leaves and fruit, and scattered them in every direction.
 Then...
 XIV... listen and hear! You are the great cedar... standing before you
 in a dream on the top of mountains... ... truth. The wi low that springs
 from it and rises towards the heights (these are) three sons... And that
 which you did see, (namely that) the first wi low caught the stump of the
 cedar... and the wood from it ... wi l not separate from you al its days.
 And among its posterity... wi l be caled... wi l spring a righteous plant...
 wi l stand for ever. And that which you did see, (namely that) the wi low
 caught the stump [of the cedar] ...
 ... the last wi low... vacat . part of their branch entered (got entangled
 with?) the branch of the first (wi low), two sons... And that which you did
 see, (namely that) part of their branch entered the branch of the first... I
 explained to him the mystery...
 XV ... And that you did see al of them ... they wil go around, the
 majority of them wi l be wicked. And that which you did see, (namely
 that) a man came from the south of the land, with a sickle in his hand,
 and fire with him ... who wi l come from the south of the land ... And they
 wi l cast wickedness on the fire, al ... And he shal come between
 ... Four angels ... between al the nations. And al of them wi l worship
 and be confounded ... I wil explain to you al, in truth. And thus it is
 written concerning you. And I, Noah, awoke from my sleep and the sun
 ...
 XVI ... until the river Tina ... and a l the land of the north, a l of it, until it
 reaches ... And this boundary passes by the waters of the Great Sea
 as far as ... divided by lot to Japhet and his sons to inherit as an
 eternal inheritance. vacat The second lot came to Shem to inherit, he
 and his sons, as an eternal inheritance ... the waters of the river Tina ...
 as far as the river Tina ... to the great Sea of Salt. And this boundary
 goes as a spring from this bay ... to the east
 XVI ... And Shem, my son, divided (his inheritance) among his sons.
 And the first (lot) fe l to Elam in the north, by the waters of the river
 Tigris as far as the Red Sea, whose source is in the north, and it turns
 to the west to Assyria as far as the Tigris ... And after it to Aram, the
land between the two rivers, as far as the top of the mountain of Ashur
 ... [To] ... fe l this Mount of the Ox and the portion stretched and went
 westwards as far as Magog ... east in the north ... this bay which is at
 the head of three portions by this sea to Arpachshad to the boundary
 that turns towards the south, al the land watered by the Euphrates, and
 al ... al the valeys and plains that are between them, and the island
 that is in the middle of the bay ... to the sons of Gomer ... and Amana
 as far as the Euphrates ... the portion that his father Noah divided and
 gave him. vacat Japhet divided (his inheritance) between his sons. He
 gave the first (lot) to Gomer in the north as far as the river Tina, and
 afterwards to Magog, and afterwards to Media, and afterwards to
 Yavan (the Greeks), al the islands that are by Lydia. And (the lot) which
 is between the bay of Lydia and the second bay, (he gave) to Tubal ...
 in the land. And to Meshek the sea ... to Tiras ... which is by the portion
 of the sons of Ham ... vacat ...
 XV I ...
 XIX ... And I said, ‘Thou art ...’...‘... until now you have not come to the
 Holy Mountain.’
 And I (Abram) departed ... and I traveled towards the south ... until I
 came to Hebron [at the time when Hebron] was being built; and I dwelt
 there [two years].
 Now there was famine in al this land, and hearing that there was
 prosperity in Egypt I went ... to the land of Egypt ... I [came to] the river
 Karmon, one of the branches of the River (Nile) ... and I crossed the
 seven branches of the River ... We passed through our land and
 entered the land of the sons of Ham, the land of Egypt.
 And on the night of our entry into Egypt, I, Abram, dreamt a dream;
 [and behold], I saw in my dream a cedar tree and a palm tree ... men
 came and they sought to cut down the cedar tree and to pul up its
 roots, leaving the palm tree (standing) alone. But the palm tree cried
 out saying, ‘Do not cut down this cedar tree, for cursed be he who shal
 fe l [it].’ And the cedar tree was spared because of the palm tree and
 [was] not feled.
 And during the night I woke from my dream, and I said to Sarai my
 wife, ‘I have dreamt a dream ... [and I am] fearful [because of] this
 dream.’ She said to me, ‘Tel me your dream that I may know it.’ So I
began to tel her this dream ... [the interpretation] of the dream ...‘... that
 they wi l seek to ki l me, but wi l spare you ... [Say to them] of me, “He is
 my brother”, and because of you I shal live, and because of you my life
 shal be saved ... ’
 And Sarai wept that night on account of my words ...
 Then we journeyed towards Zoan, I and Sarai ... by her life that none
 should see her ...
 And when those five years had passed, three men from among the
 princes of Egypt [came at the command] of Pharaoh of Zoan to inquire
 after [my] business and after my wife and they gave ... goodness,
 wisdom, and truth. And I exclaimed before them ... because of the
 famine ... And they came to ascertain ... with much food and drink ...
 the wine ...
 (During the party, the Egyptians must have seen Sarai, and on their
 return they praised her to the king.)
 XX ...‘... and beautiful is her face! How ... fine are the hairs of her
 head! How lovely are her eyes! How desirable her nose and al the
 radiance of her countenance ... How fair are her breasts and how
 beautiful a l her whiteness! How pleasing are her arms and how perfect
 her hands, and how [desirable] al the appearance of her hands! How
 fair are her palms and how long and slender are her fingers! How
 comely are her feet, how perfect her thighs! No virgin or bride led into
 the marriage chamber is more beautiful than she; she is fairer than al
 other women. Truly, her beauty is greater than theirs. Yet together with
 al this grace she possesses abundant wisdom, so that whatever she
 does is perfect (?).’ When the king heard the words of Harkenosh and
 his two companions, for al three spoke as with one voice, he desired
 her greatly and sent out at once to take her. And seeing her, he was
 amazed by al her beauty and took her to be his wife, but me he sought
 to ki l. Sarai said to the king, ‘He is my brother,’ that I might benefit
 from her, and I, Abram, was spared because of her and I was not slain.
 And I, Abram, wept aloud that night, I and my nephew Lot, because
 Sarai had been taken from me by force. I prayed that night and I
 begged and implored, and I said in my sorrow while my tears ran
 down: ‘Blessed art Thou, O Most High God, Lord of al the worlds,
 Thou who art Lord and king of al things and who rulest over al the
kings of the earth and judgest them al! I cry now before Thee, my Lord,
 against Pharaoh of Zoan the king of Egypt, because of my wife who
 has been taken from me by force. Judge him for me that I may see Thy
 mighty hand raised against him and against al his household, and that
 he may not be able to defile my wife this night (separating her) from
 me, and that they may know Thee, my Lord, that Thou art Lord of al the
 kings of the earth.’ And I wept and was sorrowful.
 And during that night the Most High God sent a spirit to scourge him,
 an evil spirit to al his household; and it scourged him and al his
 household. And he was unable to approach her, and although he was
 with her for two years, he knew her not.
 At the end of those two years the scourges and afflictions grew
 greater and more grievous upon him and al his household, so he sent
 for al [the sages] of Egypt, for al the magicians, together with al the
 healers of Egypt, that they might heal him and al his household of this
 scourge. But not one healer or magician or sage could stay to cure
 him, for the spirit scourged them al and they fled.
 Then Harkenosh came to me, beseeching me to go to the king and
 to pray for him and to lay my hands upon him that he might live, for the
 king had dreamt a dream ... But Lot said to him, ‘Abram my uncle
 cannot pray for the king while Sarai his wife is with him. Go, therefore,
 and tel the king to restore his wife to her husband; then he wi l pray for
 him and he shal live.’
 When Harkenosh had heard the words of Lot, he went to the king
 and said, ‘A l these scourges and afflictions with which my lord the king
 is scourged and afflicted are because of Sarai the wife of Abram. Let
 Sarai be restored to Abram her husband, and this scourge and the
 spirit of festering sha l vanish from you.’
 And he caled me and said, ‘What have you done to me with regard
 to [Sarai]? You said to me, She is my sister, whereas she is your wife;
 and I took her to be my wife. Behold your wife who is with me; depart
 and go hence from al the land of Egypt! And now pray for me and my
 house that this evil spirit may be expeled from it.’
 So I prayed [for him] ... and I laid my hands on his [head]; and the
 scourge departed from him and the evil [spirit] was expeled [from him],
 and he lived. And the king rose to tel me ... and the king swore an oath
to me that ... and the king gave her much [silver and gold] and much
 raiment of fine linen and purple ... And Hagar also ... and he appointed
 men to lead [me] out [of al the land of Egypt]. And I, Abram, departed
 with very great flocks and with silver and gold, and I went up from
 [Egypt] together with my nephew [Lot]. Lot had great flocks also, and
 he took a wife for himself from among [the daughters of Egypt.
 I pitched my camp] XXI [in] every place in which I had formerly
 camped until I came to Bethel, the place where I had built an altar. And
 I built a second altar and laid on it a sacrifice, and an offering to the
 Most High God. And there I caled on the name of the Lord of worlds
 and praised the Name of God and blessed God, and I gave thanks
 before God for al the riches and favours which He had bestowed on
 me. For He had dealt kindly towards me and had led me back in
 peace into this land. After that day, Lot departed from me on account
 of the deeds of our shepherds. He went away and settled in the valey
 of the Jordan, together with al his flocks; and I myself added more to
 them. He kept his sheep and journeyed as far as Sodom, and he
 bought a house for himself in Sodom and dwelt in it. But I dwelt on the
 mountain of Bethel and it grieved me that my nephew Lot had
 departed from me. And God appeared to me in a vision at night and
 said to me, ‘Go to Ramath Hazor which is north of Bethel, the place
 where you dwel, and lift up your eyes and look to the east and to the
 west and to the south and to the north; and behold al this land which I
 give to you and your seed for ever.’
 The next morning, I went up to Ramath Hazor and from that high
 place I beheld the land from the River of Egypt to Lebanon and Senir,
 and from the Great Sea to Hauran, and al the land of Gebal as far as
 Kadesh, and al the Great Desert to the east of Hauran and Senir as
 far as the Euphrates. And He said to me, ‘I wil give al this land to your
 seed and they shal possess it for ever. And I wil multiply your seed
 like the dust of the earth which no man can number; neither shal any
 man number your seed. Rise and go! Behold the length and breadth of
 the land, for it is yours; and after you, I wi l give it to your seed for ever.’
 And I, Abram, departed to travel about and see the land. I began my
 journey at the river Gihon and traveled along the coast of the Sea until I
 came to the Mountain of the Bul (Taurus). Then I traveled from the
coast of the Great Salt Sea and journeyed towards the east by the
 Mountain of the Bul, across the breadth of the land, until I came to the
 river Euphrates. I journeyed along the Euphrates until I came to the Red
 Sea (Persian Gulf) in the east, and I traveled along the coast of the
 Red Sea until I came to the tongue of the Sea of Reeds (the modern
 Red Sea) which flows out from the Red Sea. Then I pursued my way in
 the south until I came to the river Gihon, and returning, I came to my
 house in peace and found al things prosperous there. I went to dwel at
 the Oaks of Mamre, which is at Hebron, north-east of Hebron; and I
 built an altar there, and laid on it a sacrifice and an oblation to the Most
 High God. I ate and drank there, I and al the men of my household, and
 I sent for Mamre, Ornam and Eshkol, the three Amorite brothers, my
 friends, and they ate and drank with me.
 Before these days, Kedorlaomer king of Elam had set out with
 Amrafel king of Babylon, Ariok king of Kaptok, and Tidal king of the
 nations which lie between the rivers; and they had waged war against
 Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah,
 Shemiabad king of Zeboim, and against the king of Bela. Al these had
 made ready for battle in the valey of Siddim, and the king of Elam and
 the other kings with him had prevailed over the king of Sodom and his
 companions and had imposed a tribute upon them.
 For twelve years they had paid their tribute to the king of Elam, but in
 the thirteenth year they rebe led against him. And in the fourteenth year,
 the king of Elam placed himself at the head of al his alies and went up
 by the Way of the Wilderness; and they smote and pilaged from the
 river Euphrates onward. They smote the Refaim who were at Ashteroth
 Karnaim, the Zumzamim who were at Ammon, the Emim [who were at]
 Shaveh ha-Keriyyoth, and the Horites who were in the mountains of
 Gebal, until they came to El Paran which is in the Wilderness. And they
 returned ... at Hazazon Tamar.
 The king of Sodom went out to meet them, together with the king [of
 Gomorrah], the king of Admah, the king of Zeboim, and the king of
 Bela, [and they fought] a battle in the valey [of Siddim] against
 Kedorlaomer [king of Elam and the kings] who were with him. But the
 king of Sodom was vanquished and fled, and the king of Gomorrah fel
 into the pits ... [And] the king of Elam [carried off] al the riches of
Sodom and [Gomorrah] ... and they took Lot the nephew XXI of Abram
 who dwelt with them in Sodom, together with al his possessions.
 Now one of the shepherds of the flocks which Abram had given to
 Lot escaped from captivity and came to Abram; at that time Abram
 dwelt in Hebron. He told him that Lot his nephew had been taken,
 together with al his possessions, but that he had not been slain and
 that the kings had gone by the Way of the Great Valey (of the Jordan)
 in the direction of their land, taking captives and plundering and
 smiting and slaying, and that they were journeying towards the land of
 Damascus.
 Abram wept because of Lot his nephew. Then he braced himself; he
 rose up and chose from among his servants three hundred and
 eighteen fighting men trained for war, and Ornam and Eshkol and
 Mamre went with him also. He pursued them until he came to Dan, and
 came on them while they were camped in the valey of Dan. He fel on
 them at night from four sides and during the night he slew them; he
 crushed them and put them to flight, and al of them fled before him until
 they came to Helbon which is north of Damascus. He rescued from
 them al their captives, and al their booty and possessions. He also
 delivered Lot his nephew, together with al his possessions, and he
 brought back al the captives which they had taken.
 When the king of Sodom learned that Abram had brought back al
 the captives and al the booty, he came out to meet him; and he went to
 Salem, which is Jerusalem.
 Abram camped in the valey of Shaveh, which is the valey of the
 king, the valey of Beth-ha-Kerem; and Melchizedek king of Salem
 brought out food and drink to Abram and to al the men who were with
 him. He was the Priest of the Most High God. And he blessed Abram
 and said, ‘Blessed be Abram by the Most High God, Lord of heaven
 and earth! And blessed be the Most High God who has delivered your
 enemies into your hand!’ And Abram gave him the tithe of al the
 possessions of the king of Elam and his companions.
 Then the king of Sodom approached and said to Abram, ‘My lord
 Abram, give me the souls which are mine, which you have delivered
 from the king of Elam and taken captive, and you may have al the
 possessions.’
Then said Abram to the king of Sodom, ‘I raise my hand this day to
 the Most High God, Lord of heaven and earth! I wil take nothing of
 yours, not even a shoe-lace or shoe-strap, lest you say, Abram’s riches
 come from my possessions! I wil take nothing but that which the young
 men with me have eaten already, and the portion of the three men who
 have come with me. They shal decide whether they wil give you their
 portion.’ And Abram returned al the possessions and al the captives
 and gave them to the king of Sodom; he freed al the captives from this
 land who were with him, and sent them al back.
 After these things, God appeared to Abram in a vision and said to
 him, ‘Behold, ten years have passed since you departed from Haran.
 For two years you dwelt here and you spent seven years in Egypt, and
 one year has passed since you returned from Egypt. And now examine
 and count al you have, and see how it has grown to be double that
 which came out with you from Haran. And now do not fear, I am with
 you; I am your help and your strength. I am a shield above you and a
 mighty safeguard round about you. Your wealth and possessions shal
 multiply greatly.’ But Abram said, ‘My Lord God, I have great wealth
 and possessions but what good shal they do to me? I shal die naked;
 childless sha l I go hence. A child from my household shal inherit from
 me. Eliezer son
 ... sha l inherit from me.’ And He said to him, ‘He shal not be your
 heir, but one who shal spring [from your body shal inherit from you].’
 Genesis Commentaries (4Q252—254a)
 From this non-continuous paraphrase of Genesis, four sections are
 reproduced here, two of which are of sectarian inspiration. The
 composition of the first fragment attempts to adapt the chronology of
 the biblical Flood story to the solar calendar of the Qumran
 Community. Along more general lines, it seeks also to explain certain
 peculiarities of the scriptural text, e.g., why, despite Ham’s disrespect
 to his father, it was not he, but his son Canaan, who was cursed by
 Noah. The exegesis attested in this section is distinct from the pesber,
and resembles partly the style of the ‘rewritten Bible’ such as the
 Genesis Apocryphon, and partly the ‘plain’, or peshat, interpretation of
 the rabbis.
 The subject of the second excerpt is the blessing of Judah, i.e. the
 tribe in which David originated. The sectarian commentator (see the
 mention of the ‘men of the Community’ in line 5) emphasizes that the
 royal power wi l belong for ever to the descendants of David, thereby
 implying that al non-Davidic rulers, such as the contemporary
 Hasmonaean priest-kings, unlawfuly occupy the throne. If so, the
 composition best fits to the first half of the first century BCE. Only four
 tiny fragments of 4Q253 are extant. Fr. I mentions the ark. Fr. 3, col. I
 contains a citation from Mal. iii, 16—18. This is the only translatable
 excerpt. Fifteen mostly insignificant scraps of 4Q254 correspond partly
 to the Noah story and partly to the blessings of the Patriarchs. Only frs.
 I and 5 can be translated. Fr. I, lines 2—4 overlap with 4Q252 ii, 1.6.
 For the editio princeps, see G. J. Brooke, DJD, XXI, 185—212,
 217—36.
 4Q252, fr. I (Gen. vi, 3—XV, 17)
 I [In the] four hundred and eightieth year of the life of Noah came their
 end (that of antediluvian mankind). And God said, My spirit shal not
 abide in man for ever and their days sbal be determined to be one
 hundred and twenty years (Gen. vi, 3) - until the end of the Flood. And
 the waters of the Flood arrived on the earth in the six hundredth year
 of the life of Noah, in the second month— on the first day of the week
 —on the seventeenth (of the month). On that day a l the fountains of
 the great deep burst forth and the windows of the heavens were
 opened. And rain fe l on the earth forty days and forty nights (vii, 11—
 12) until the twenty-sixth day of the third month, the fifth day of the
 week. And the waters prevailed upon the [ea]rth a hundred and fifty
 days (vii, 24)—until the fourteenth day of the seventh month, the third
 day of the week. And at the end of a hundred and fifty days, the waters
 had abated— two days, the fourth and the fifth day, and on the sixth
 day - the ark came to rest on the mountains of Hurarat (or: Turarat),
on the seventeenth day of the seventh month (viii, 3—4). And the
 waters [con]tinued to abate until the [ten]th month, the first day of (the
 month) - the fourth day of the week—and the tops of the mountains
 appeared (viii, 5). At the end of forty days ― after the tops of the
 mountains had been seen ― Noah [op]ened the window of the ark
 (viii, 6) - on the tenth day of the ele[venth] month. And he sent forth the
 dove to see if the waters had subsided (viii, 8), but she did not find a
 resting-place and returned to him to the ark (viii, 9). He waited
 an[other] seven days and again sent her forth (viii, 10). She came
 back to him with a plucked olive leaf in her beak (viii, 10—11)—[this
 is the twenty-]fourth [day] of the eleventh month, the first day of the
 wee[k. And Noah knew that the waters had subsided] from the earth
 (viii, I). At the end of another [seven days, he sent forth the dove and
 it did not] return again (viii, 12)—this is the f[irst] day [of the twelfth]
 month, [the first day] of the week. At the end of three [weeks after Noah
 had sent forth the dov]e which did not return to him any more, the
 wa[ters] dried up [from the earth and] Noah removed the covering of
 the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry (viii,
 13). This was the first day of the first month. [And it happened] I in the
 six hundred and first year of the life of Noah, on the seventeenth day
 of the second month that the earth was dry (viii, 14) - on the first day of
 the week. On that day Noah went forth from the ark (viii, 18) at the end
 of a ful year of three hundred and sixty-four days, on the first day of the
 week, on the seven[teenth] of the second month vacat on and six vacat
 Noah from the ark at the appointed time of a ful year vacat And Noah
 awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to
 him. And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a slave of slaves shal he be
 to [his] bro[thers] (ix, 24—5). But he did not curse Ham but only his
 son, for God had blessed the sons of Noah. And let him dwel in the
 tents of Shem (ix, 27). He gave the land to Abram, his beloved. [Terah]
 was one hundred and for[t]y-five years old when he went forth from Ur
 of the Chaldees and came to Haran (xi, 31). Now Ab[ram was
 se]venty years old and for five years Abram dwelt in Haran. And
 afterwards Abram went forth to the land of Canaan. Six[ty-five years] .
 the heifer and the ram and the go[at] (xv, 9) ... [the torch of] ] fire when
 it pass[ed over] (xv, 17) ...
(Gen. xxxvi, 12)
 IV Timna was the concubine of Eliphaz son of Esau and she bore to
 him Amalek (xxxvi, 12), whom Saul smo[te] as He said to Moses, In
 the last days you wi l wipe out the memory of Amalek from under the
 heaven (Deut. xxv, 19).
 Blessings of Jacob (Gen. xlix, 3)
 Reuben, you are my first-born, the firstfruit of my strength, pre
eminent in pride and pre-eminent in power. Unstable as water, you
 sha l not have pre-eminence; you went up to your fathers bed; you
 have defiled his couch . (xlix, 3) Its interpretation is that he rebuked
 him because he slept with Bilhah, his concubine, and he said, ‘[My]
 first-[born] ... (ibid.) Reuben is the firstfruit ...’
 (Gen. xlix, 10)
 V The sceptre [shal not] depart from the tribe of Judah ... [xlix, 10].
 Whenever Israel rules, there sha l [not] fail to be a descendant of
 David upon the throne (Jer. xxxiii, 17). For the ruler’s staff (xlix, 10) is
 the Covenant of kingship, [and the clans] of Israel are the divisions,
 95
 until the Messiah of Righteousness comes, the Branch of David. For to
 him and his seed is granted the Covenant of kingship over his people
 for everlasting generations which he is to keep... the Law with the men
 of the Community, for... it is the assembly of the men of...
 Genesis Commentary C (4Q254)
 Fr. I (Gen. ix, 24—5)
... which he says ... on the doors and ... [And Noah awoke from his
 wine] and knew what [his youngest son had done to him. And he said,
 Cursed be Canaan;] a slave of slaves [shal he be to his brothers]
 (Gen. ix, 24—5).
 Frs. 5—6 (Gen. xlix, 15—17)
 And he bowed [his shoulder to bear and became] a slave [at forced
 labour] (Gen. xlxi, 15). Its interpretation... [Dan sha l judge] his
 [peo]ple as on[e] of the tr[ibes of Israel.] Dan sha l be a ser[pent in
 the way, a vip]er by the pa[th that bites] the horse’s hee[Is] (Gen. xlix,
 15-17) ...
 Genesis Commentary D (4Q254a)
 Fr.3
 [On] the seventeenth of the month... Noah went out of the ark at the
 appointed time year by year ... [a ra]ven and it went out and returned to
 announce to the 1[ast] generations ... before him, for the ra[ven] went
 out and retur[ned] ...
 Commentaries on Isaiah (4Q 11611-5, 3Q4)
 Translatable fragments of four commentaries on Isaiah were
 discovered in Cave 4 (4QpIsaa—d = 4Q161—4). A fifth (4QpIsae =
 4QI65) is too mutilated to be rendered into English. The first document
 aludes to the defeat of the Kittim and expounds the renowned
 messianic prophecy of Isa. xi. It is related to 4Q285 (cf. p. 188). The
 second and the third deal with the Jewish opponents of the sect. The
fourth, relying on Isa. liv, identifies the Community as the New
 Jerusalem. They may al be assigned to the first century BCE. A smal
 fragment from Cave 3 (3Q4) represents a commentary on Isa. i, I, but
 with no continuous text.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 11—30.
 Frs. 8-10
 . [and the ta lest tre]es [sha l be cut down and] the lofty [sha l be
 fe led] with the axe, and Lebanon through a powerful one sha l fa l (x,
 33—4).
 [Its interpretation concerns the Kit]tim who sha l crush the house of
 Israel and the humble ... al the nations and the valiant shal be
 dismayed and [their] he[arts] shal melt. [And that which he said, The
 ta lest] trees sha l be cut down, these are the valiant of the Kit[tim] ...
 [And that which he sa]id. The heart of the forest sha l be fe led with the
 axe, th[ey] ... for the war of the Kittim. And Lebanon through a
 po[werful one sha l fa l (x, 34). Its interpretation concerns the] Kittim
 who wil be given into the hand of his great one ... when he flees from
 be[fore Is]rael ... vacat
 [And there shal come forth a rod from the stem ofJesseand a
 Branch shal grow out of its roots. And the spirit of the Lord sha l rest
 upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of
 counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of thefearof the Lord.
 And his delight sha l be in the fear of the Lord. He sha l not judge by
 what his eyes see, or pass sentence by what his ears hear; he shal
 judge the poor righteously and shal pass sentence justly on the
 humble of the earth] (xi, 1—3).
 [Interpreted, this concerns the Branch] of David who shal arise at the
 end [of days] ... God wil uphold him with [the spirit of might, and wi l
 give him] a throne of glory and a crown of [holiness] and many
coloured garments ... [He wi l put a sceptre] in his hand and he shal
 rule over al the [nations]. And Magog ... and his sword shal judge [al]
 the peoples.
And as for that which he said, He shal not [judge by what his eyes
 see] or pass sentence by what his ears hear: interpreted, this means
 that ... [the Priests] ... As they teach him, so wi l he judge; and as they
 order, [so wi l he pass sentence]. One of the Priests of renown shal go
 out, and garments of... shal be in his hands ...
 4Q162
 [For ten acres of vineyard sha l produce only one bath, and a homer
 of seed shal yield but one ephah] (v, 10).
 Interpreted, this saying concerns the last days, the devastation of the
 land by sword and famine. At the time of the Visitation of the land there
 shal be Woe to those who rise early in the morning to run after strong
 drink, to those who linger in the evening until wine inflames them.
 They have zither and harp and timbrel and flute and wine at their
 feasts, but they do not regard the work of the Lord or see the deeds of
 His hand. Therefore my people go into exile for want of knowledge,
 and their noblemen die of hunger and their multitude is parched with
 thirst. Therefore He l has widened its gu let and opened its mouth
 beyond measure, and the nobility of Jerusalem and her multitude go
 down, her tumult and he who rejoices in her (v, 11—14).
 These are the Scoffers in Jerusalem who have despised the Law of
 the Lord and scorned the word of the Holy One of Israel. Therefore
 the wrath of the Lord was kindled against His people. He stretched
 out His hand against them and smote them; the mountains trembled
 and their corpses were like sweepings in the middle of the streets.
 And [His wrath] has not relented for a l these things [and His hand is
 stretched out sti l] (v, 24—5).
 This is the congregation of Scoffers in Jerusalem ...
 4Q163
 Thus said the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, ‘You shal be saved by
 returning and resting; your strength sha l be in silence and trust.’ But
you would not. You [said], ‘No. We wi l flee upon horses and wi l ride
 on swift steeds.’ Therefore your pursuers sha l be speedy also. A
 thousand sha l flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five you sha l
 flee [ti l] you are left like a flagsta f on top of a mountain and like a
 signal on top of a hi l. Therefore the Lord waits to be [gracious to]
 you; therefore He exalts Himself to have mercy on you. For the Lord
 is a God of justice. How blessed are al those who wait for him! (xxx,
 15—18).
 This saying, referring to the last days, concerns the congregation of
 those who seek smooth things in Jerusalem ... [who despise the] Law
 and do not [trust in God] ... As robbers lie in wait for a man ... they have
 despised [the words of] the Law ...
 O people of Zion [who live in Jerusalem, you sha l weep no more.
 At the sound of] your crying [He wi l be gracious to you; He wi l
 answer you] when He [hears it. Although the Lord gives you bread of
 oppression and water of distress, your Teacher] sha l be hidden [no
 more and your eyes shal see your Teacher] . (XXX, 19—20).
 4Q164
 Behold, I wi l set your stones in antimony (liv, Ib).
 [Interpreted, this saying concerns] ... al Israel is like antimony
 surrounding the eye.
 And I wi l lay your foundations with sapphires (liv, IC).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Priests and the people who laid the
 foundations of the Council of the Community ... the congregation of His
 elect (sha l sparkle) like a sapphire among stones.
 [And I wi l make] al your pinnacles [of agate] (liv, 12a).
 Interpreted, this concerns the twelve [chief Priests] who shal
 enlighten by judgement of the Urim and Tummim ... which are absent
 from them, like the sun with al its light, and like the moon ...
[And al your gates of carbuncles] (liv, 12b).
 Interpreted, this concerns the chiefs of the tribes of Israel...
 Commentaries on Hosea (4Q166—7)
 Two fragmentary manuscripts (4Q166—7) include exegeses of
 Hosea. In the first, the unfaithful wife is the Jewish people led astray by
 her lovers, the Gentiles. The second refers crypticaly to ‘the furious
 young lion’, mentioned also in the Commentary on Nahum, and to ‘the
 last Priest who shal ... strike Ephraim’.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 31—2.
 4Q166
 I [She knew not that] it was I who gave her [the new wine and oil], who
 lavished [upon her silver] and gold which they [used for Baal] (ii, 8).
 Interpreted, this means that [they ate and] were fi led, but they forgot
 God who ... They cast His commandments behind them which He had
 sent [by the hand of] His servants the Prophets, and they listened to
 those who led them astray. They revered them, and in their blindness
 they feared them as though they were gods.
 Therefore I wi l take back my corn in its time and my wine [in its
 season]. I wi l take away my wool and my flax lest they cover [her
 nakedness]. I wi l uncover her shame before the eyes of [her] lovers
 [and] no man shal deliver her from out of my hand (ii, 9—10).
 Interpreted, this means that He smote them with hunger and
 nakedness that they might be shamed and disgraced in the sight of the
 nations on which they relied. They wil not deliver them from their
 miseries.
I wi l put an end to her rejoicing, [her feasts], her [new] moons, her
 Sabbaths, and a l her festivals (ii, I).
 Interpreted, this means that [they have rejected the ruling of the Law,
 and have] folowed the festivals of the nations. But [their rejoicing shal
 come to an end and] shal be changed into mourning. I wi l ravage [her
 vines and her fig trees], of which she said, ‘They are my wage [which
 my lovers have given me’.] I wi l make of them a thicket and the [wild
 beasts] sha l eat them ... (ii, 12).
 4Q167, fr. 2
 ... and your wound shal not be healed (v, 13).
 [Its] in[terpretation concerns] ... the furious young lion ...
 For I wi l be like a lion [to E]ph[ra]im [and like a young lion to the
 house of Judah] (v, 14a).
 [Its interpretation con]cerns the last Priest who shal stretch out his
 hand to strike Ephraim ...
 [I wi l go and come back to my place un]til they [wi l] feel guilty and
 seek my face; in their distress they wi l seek me eagerly (v, 15)-Its
 interpretation is that God [has hid]den His face from ... and they did not
 listen ...
 Frs. 7-9
 [But they, like Adam, have b]roken the Covenant (vi, 7).
 [Its] interpretation ... they have forsaken God and walked according
 to the decrees [of the Gentiles] ...
 Commentary on Micah (1Q]14,4Q168)
Tiny fragments from Cave I (1Q14) represent an exposition of Micah.
 Although the prophet’s words are intended to castigate both Samaria
 and Jerusalem, the Qumran commentator interprets Samaria as
 aluding to the ‘Spouter of Lies’, the enemy of the sect, but relates
 Judah and Jerusalem to the Teacher of Righteousness and his
 Community. Further fragments of Micah iv, 8—12 are given the title
 ‘Commentary on Micah (?)’, in 4Q168 (DJD, V, 36), but since neither
 the word pesher, nor any interpretative material is extant, the
 manuscript may be biblical.
 For the editio princeps, see J. T. Milik, DJD, 1,77—80.
 [A l this is] for the transgression [of Jacob and for the sins of the
 House of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob?] Is it not
 [Samaria? And what is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?
 I wi l make of Samaria a ruin in the fields, and of Jerusalem a
 plantation of vines] (i, 5—6).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Spouter of Lies [who led the] Simple
 [astray].
 And what is the high place of Judah? [Is it not Jerusalem?] (i, 5).
 [Interpreted, this concerns] the Teacher of Righteousness who
 [expounded the law to] his [Council] and to al who freely pledged
 themselves to join the elect of [God to keep the Law] in the Council of
 the Community, who shal be saved on the Day [of Judgement] ...
 Commentary on Nahum (4Q169)
 Substantial remains of a Nahum Commentary were retrieved from
 Cave 4 (4Q169). They cover parts of chapters i and ii of the biblical
 book, and the first fourteen verses of chapter iii. Their historical
 significance has been discussed in Chapter I (pp. 55—62). It is
 worthy of note that the commentator employs not only cryptograms
 (Kittim, furious young lion, etc.), but the actual names of two Greek
kings (Demetrius and Antiochus). Reference to ‘the furious young lion’
 as one who ‘hangs men alive’ shows that ‘hanging’, probably a
 synonym for crucifixion, was practised as a form of execution. It is also
 legislated for in the Temple Scrol (LXIV, 6—13), where it is the capital
 punishment reserved for traitors. In biblical law, by contrast, only the
 dead body of an executed criminal is to be hanged, that is, displayed
 in public as an example (Deut. xxi, 21).
 On palaeographical grounds the manuscript is dated to the second
 half of the first century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 371—42.
 Frs. 1—2
 [In whirlwind and storm is his way and] cloud is the d[ust of his feet
 (i, 3). Its interpretation] ... The [whirlwinds and the storm]s are (from) the
 fir[mam]ents of his heaven and of his earth which he has cre[ated].
 He rebu[kes] the sea and dri[es it up] (i, 4a).
 Its [int]erpretation: the sea is a l the K[ittim who are] ... to execut[e]
 judgement against them and destroy them from the face [of the earth,]
 together with [al] their [com]manders whose dominion shal be
 finished.
 [Bashan and] Carmel have withered and the sprout of Lebanon
 withers (i, 4b). Its interpretation... [wi l per]ish in it, the summit of
 wickedness for the ... Carmel and to his commanders. Lebanon and
 the sprout of Lebanon are [the priests, the sons of Zadok and the men
 of] their [counc]il and they shal perish from before... the elect... [a]11
 the inhabitants of the world.
 The mo[untains quake before him] and the hi ls heave and the
 earth [is lifted up] before him, and [the world and a l that dwe l in it.
 Who can stand before his wrath? And who can arise] against his
 furious anger? (i, 5—6a).
[Its] in[terpretation] ...
 I [Where is the lions’ den and the cave of the young lions?] (ii, I).
 [Interpreted, this concerns] ... a dwe ling-place for the ungodly of the
 nations.
 Whither the lion goes, there is the lion’s cub, [with none to disturb it]
 (ii, Ib).
 [Interpreted, this concerns Deme]trius king of Greece who sought,
 on the counsel of those who seek smooth things, to enter Jerusalem.
 [But God did not permit the city to be delivered] into the hands of the
 kings of Greece, from the time of Antiochus until the coming of the
 rulers of the Kittim. But then she shal be trampled under their feet ...
 The lion tears enough for its cubs and it chokes prey for its
 lionesses (ii, 12a).
 [Interpreted, this] concerns the furious young lion who strikes by
 means of his great men, and by means of the men of his council.
 [And chokes prey for its lionesses; and it fi ls] its caves [with prey]
 and its dens with victims (ii, 12a—b).
 Interpreted, this concerns the furious young lion [who executes
 revenge] on those who seek smooth things and hangs men alive, ...
 formerly in Israel. Because of a man hanged alive on [the] tree, He
 proclaims, ‘Behold I am against [you, says the Lord of Hosts’].
 [ 7 wi l burn up your multitude in smoke], and the sword shal
 devour your young lions. I wi l [cut o f] your prey [from the earth] (ii, i
 3).
 [Interpreted] ... your multitude is the bands of his army ... and his
 young lions are ... his prey is the wealth which [the priests] of
 Jerusalem have [amassed], which ... Israel shal be delivered ...
 [And the voice of your messengers shal no more be heard] (ii, 13b).
 [Interpreted] I ... his messengers are his envoys whose voice shal
no more be heard among the nations.
 Woe to the city of blood; it is fu l of lies and rapine (iii, Ia—b).
 Interpreted, this is the city of Ephraim, those who seek smooth
 things during the last days, who walk in lies and falsehood.
 The prowler is not wanting, noise of whip and noise of ratling
 wheel, prancing horse and jolting chariot, charging horsemen, flame
 and gli tering spear, a multitude of the slain and a heap of carcasses.
 There is no end to the corpses; they stumble upon their corpses (iii,
 Ic—3).
 Interpreted, this concerns the dominion of those who seek smooth
 things, from the midst of whose assembly the sword of the nations shal
 never be wanting. Captivity, looting, and burning shal be among them,
 and exile out of dread for the enemy. A multitude of guilty corpses shal
 fa l in their days; there shal be no end to the sum of their slain. They
 shal also stumble upon their body of flesh because of their guilty
 counsel.
 Because of the many harlotries of the wel-favoured harlot, the
 mistress of seduction, she who se ls nations through her harlotries
 and families through her seductions (iii, 4).
 Interpreted, this concerns those who lead Ephraim astray, who lead
 many astray through their false teaching, their lying tongue, and
 deceitful lips - kings, princes, priests, and people, together with the
 stranger who joins them. Cities and families shal perish through their
 counsel; honourable men and rulers shal fal through their tongue’s
 [decision].
 Behold, I am against you - oracle of the Lord of Hosts - and you wi l
 lift up your skirts to your face and expose your nakedness to the
 nations and your shame to the kingdoms (iii, 5).
 Interpreted ... cities of the east. For the skirts are ... I and the
 nations shal ... among them their filthy idols.
I wi l cast filth upon you and treat you with contempt and render you
 despicable, so that a l who look upon you sha l flee from you (iii, 6—
 7a).
 Interpreted, this concerns those who seek smooth things, whose evil
 deeds shal be uncovered to al Israel at the end of time. Many shal
 understand their iniquity and treat them with contempt because of their
 guilty presumption. When the glory of Judah shal arise, the simple of
 Ephraim shal flee from their assembly; they shal abandon those who
 lead them astray and shal join Israel.
 They shal say, Nineveh is laid waste; who shal grieve over her?
 Whence shal I seek comforters for you? (iii, 7b).
 Interpreted, this concerns those who seek smooth things, whose
 council shal perish and whose congregation shal be dispersed. They
 shal lead the assembly astray no more, and the simple shal support
 their council no more.
 Are you better than Amon which lay among the rivers? (iii, 8a).
 Interpreted, Amon is Manasseh, and the rivers are the great men of
 Manasseh, the honourable men of...
 Which was surrounded by waters, whose rampart was the sea and
 whose wals were waters? (iii, 8b).
 Interpreted, these are her valiant men, her almighty warriors.
 Ethiopia [and Egypt] were her [limitless] strength (iii, 9a).
 [Interpreted] ...
 [Put and the Libyans were your helpers] (iii, 9b).
 IV Interpreted, these are the wicked of [Judah], the House of
 Separation, who joined Manasseh.
 Yet she was exiled; she went into captivity. Her children were
crushed at the top of a l the streets. They cast lots for her honourable
 men, and al her great men were bound with chains (iii, 10).
 Interpreted, this concerns Manasseh in the final age, whose
 kingdom shal be brought low by [Israel ... ] his wives, his children, and
 his little ones shal go into captivity. His mighty men and honourable
 men [shal perish] by the sword.
 [You shal be drunk] and shal be stupefied (iii, Ia).
 Interpreted, this concerns the wicked of E[phraim ... ] whose cup
 shal come after Manasseh ...
 [You shal also seek] refuge in the city because of the enemy (iii, i
 Ib). Inter[preted, this concerns ... ] their enemies in the city ...
 [A l your strongholds sha l be] like fig trees with newly ripe figs (iii,
 12a).
 Commentary on Habakkuk (IQpHab)
 This wel-preserved and detailed exposition of the first two chapters of
 the Book of Habakkuk comes from Cave I and was published in 1950
 (M. Burrows, The Dead Sea Scrols of St Mark’s Monastery, I, New
 Haven, 1950, pls. LV—LXI).
 The palaeographical dating of the manuscript (30—1 BCE) has
 been confirmed by radiocarbon tests (120—5 BCE; cf. above, pp. 12
 —13). The Habakkuk Commentary is one of the main sources for the
 study of Qumran origins, as wel as Essene Bible exegesis and the
 sect’s theology regarding prophecy. The historical and doctrinal
 aspects of the document are analysed in Chapters I and IV.
 I [Oracle of Habakkuk the prophet. How long, O Lord, sha l I cry] for
 help and Thou wilt not [hear]? (i, 1—2).
 [Interpreted, this concerns the beginning] of the [final] generation ...
[Or shout to Thee ‘Violence’, and Thou wilt not deliver?] (i, 2b) ...
 [Why dost Thou cause me to see iniquity and to look upon
 trouble? Desolation and violence are before me] (i, 3).
 ... God with oppression and unfaithfulness ... they rob riches.
 [There is quarre ling and contention] (i, 3b).
 So the law is weak [and justice never goes forth] (i, 4a-b).
 [Interpreted] this concerns those who have despised the Law of God
 [For the wicked encompasses] the righteous (i, 4c).
 [The wicked is the Wicked Priest, and the righteous] is the Teacher
 of Righteousness...
 [So] justice goes forth [perverted] (i, 4d). ...
 [Behold the nations and see, marvel and be astonished; for I
 accomplish a deed in your days, but you wi l not believe it when] I
 told (i, 5).
 [Interpreted, this concerns] those who were unfaithful together with
 the Liar, in that they [did] not [listen to the word received by] the
 Teacher of Righteousness from the mouth of God. And it concerns the
 unfaithful of the New [Covenant] in that they have not believed in the
 Covenant of God [and have profaned] His holy Name. And likewise,
 this saying is to be interpreted [as concerning those who] wil be
 unfaithful at the end of days. They, the men of violence and the
 breakers of the Covenant, wi l not believe when they hear al that [is to
 happen to] the final generation from the Priest [in whose heart] God set
 [understanding] that he might interpret a l the words of His servants the
 Prophets, through whom He foretold al that would happen to His
 people and [His land].
 For behold, I rouse the Chaldeans, that [bi ter and hasty] nation (i,
6a).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Kittim [who are] quick and valiant in
 war, causing many to perish. [A l the world shal fal] under the dominion
 of the Kittim, and the [wicked ... ] they shal not believe in the laws of
 [God ... ]
 [Who march through the breadth of the earth to take possession of
 dwelings which are not their own] (i, 6b).
 ... I they shal march across the plain, smiting and plundering the
 cities of the earth. For it is as He said, To take possession of
 dwelings which are not their own.
 They are fearsome and terrible; their justice and grandeur proceed
 from themselves (i, 7).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Kittim who inspire al the nations with
 fear [and dread]. Al their evil plotting is done with intention and they
 deal with al the nations in cunning and guile.
 Their horses are smifter than leopards and fleeter than evening
 wolves. Their horses step forward proudly and spread their wings;
 they fly from afar like an eagle avid to devour. A l of them come for
 violence; the look on their faces is like the east wind (i, 8—9a).
 [Interpreted, this] concerns the Kittim who trample the earth with their
 horses and beasts. They come from afar, from the islands of the sea,
 to devour al the peoples like an eagle which cannot be satisfied, and
 they address [al the peoples] with anger and [wrath and fury] and
 indignation. For it is as He said, The look on their faces is like the
 east wind.
 [They heap up] captives [like sand] (i, 9b).
 IV They scof [at kings], and princes are their laughing-stock (i, 10a).
 Interpreted, this means that they mock the great and despise the
 venerable; they ridicule kings and princes and scoff at the mighty host.
They laugh at every fortress; they pile up earth and take it (i, 10b).
 Interpreted, this concerns the commanders of the Kittim who
 despise the fortresses of the peoples and laugh at them in derision. To
 capture them, they encircle them with a mighty host, and out of fear and
 terror they deliver themselves into their hands. They destroy them
 because of the sins of their inhabitants.
 The wind then sweeps on and passes; and they make of their
 strength their god (i, I).
 Interpreted, [this concerns] the commanders of the Kittim who, on the
 counsel of [the] House of Guilt, pass one in front of the other; one after
 another [their] commanders come to lay waste the earth. [And they
 make of their strength their god]: interpreted, this concerns [ ... a l] the
 peoples ...
 [Art Thou not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my Holy One? We
 sha l not die.] Thou hast ordained them, [O Lord], V for judgement;
 Thou hast established them, 0 Rock, for chastisement. Their eyes
 are too pure to behold evil; and Thou canst not look on distress (i, 12
 —13a).
 Interpreted, this saying means that God wi l not destroy His people
 by the hand of the nations; God wil execute the judgement of the
 nations by the hand of His elect. And through their chastisement al the
 wicked of His people shal expiate their guilt who keep His
 commandments in their distress. For it is as he said, Too pure of eyes
 to behold evil: interpreted, this means that they have not lusted after
 their eyes during the age of wickedness.
 O traitors, why do you stare and stay silent when the wicked
 swa lows up one more righteous than he? (i, 13b).
 Interpreted, this concerns the House of Absalom and the members
 of its council who were silent at the time of the chastisement of the
 Teacher of Righteousness and gave him no help against the Liar who
 flouted the Law in the midst of their whole [congregation].
Thou dealest with men like the fish of the sea, like creeping things,
 to rule over them. They draw [them al up with a fish-hook], and drag
 them out with their net, and gather them in [their seine. Therefore
 they sacrifice] to their net. Therefore they rejoice [and exult and burn
 incense to their seine; for by them] their portion is fat [and their
 sustenance rich] (i, 14—16).
 ... VI the Kittim. And they shal gather in their riches, together with al
 their booty, like the fish of the sea. And as for that which He said,
 Therefore they sacrifice to their net and burn incense to their seine:
 interpreted, this means that they sacrifice to their standards and
 worship their weapons of war. For by them their portion is fat and their
 sustenance rich: interpreted, this means that they divide their yoke
 and their tribute ― their sustenance - over al the peoples year by
 year, ravaging many lands.
 Therefore their sword is ever drawn to massacre nations
 mercilessly (i, 17).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Kittim who cause many to perish by
 the sword - youths, grown men, the aged, women and children - and
 who even take no pity on the fruit of the womb.
 I wi l take my stand to watch and wi l station myself upon my
 fortress. I wi l watch to see what He wi l say to me and how [He wi l
 answer] my complaint. And the Lord answered [and said to me, ‘Wtite
 down the vision and make it plain] upon the tablets, that [he who
 reads] may read it speedily (ii, 1—2).
 ... V I and God told Habakkuk to write down that which would happen
 to the final generation, but He did not make known to him when time
 would come to an end. And as for that which He said, That he who
 reads may read it speedily: interpreted this concerns the Teacher of
 Righteousness, to whom God made known al the mysteries of the
 words of His servants the Prophets.
 For there shal be yet another vision concerning the appointed
time. It sha l te l of the end and sha l not lie (ii, 3a).
 Interpreted, this means that the final age shal be prolonged, and
 shal exceed al that the Prophets have said; for the mysteries of God
 are astounding.
 If it tarries, wait for it, for it sha l surely come and sha l not be late
 (ii, 3b). Interpreted, this concerns the men of truth who keep the Law,
 whose hands shal not slacken in the service of truth when the final age
 is prolonged. For al the ages of God reach their appointed end as he
 determines for them in the mysteries of His wisdom.
 Behold, [his soul] is pu fed up and is not upright (ii, 4a).
 Interpreted, this means that [the wicked] shal double their guilt upon
 themselves [and it shal not be forgiven] when they are judged ...
 [But the righteous sha l live by his faith] (ii, 4b).
 V I Interpreted, this concerns al those who observe the Law in the
 House of Judah, whom God wil deliver from the House of Judgement
 because of their suffering and because of their faith in the Teacher of
 Righteousness.
 Moreover, the arrogant man seizes wealth without halting. He
 widens his gu let like He l and like Death he has never enough. A l
 the nations are gathered to him and al the peoples are assembled
 to him. Wi l they not al of them taunt him and jeer at him saying,
 ‘Woe to him who amasses that which is not his! How long wi l he load
 himself up with pledges?’ (ii, 5—6).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Wicked Priest who was caled by the
 name of truth when he first arose. But when he ruled over Israel his
 heart became proud, and he forsook God and betrayed the precepts
 for the sake of riches. He robbed and amassed the riches of the men
 of violence who rebeled against God, and he took the wealth of the
 peoples, heaping sinful iniquity upon himself. And he lived in the ways
 of abominations amidst every unclean defilement.
Shal not your oppressors suddenly arise and your torturers
 awaken; and shal you not become their prey? Because you have
 plundered many nations, al the remnant of the peoples shal
 plunder you (ii, 7—8a).
 [Interpreted, this concerns] the Priest who rebe led [and violated] the
 precepts [of God ... to command] IX his chastisement by means of the
 judgements of wickedness. And they inflicted horrors of evil diseases
 and took vengeance upon his body of flesh. And as for that which He
 said, Because you have plundered many nations, a l the remnant of
 the peoples shal plunder you: interpreted this concerns the last
 Priests of Jerusalem, who shal amass money and wealth by
 plundering the peoples. But in the last days, their riches and booty shal
 be delivered into the hands of the army of the Kittim, for it is they who
 shal be the remnant of the peoples.
 Because of the blood of men and the violence done to the land, to
 the city, and to a l its inhabitants (ii, 8b).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Wicked Priest whom God delivered
 into the hands of his enemies because of the iniquity committed
 against the Teacher of Righteousness and the men of his Council, that
 he might be humbled by means of a destroying scourge, in bitterness
 of soul, because he had done wickedly to His elect.
 Woe to him who gets evil profit for his house; who perches his nest
 high to be safe from the hand of evil! You have devised shame to
 your house: by cuting o f many peoples you have forfeited your own
 soul. For the [stone] cries out [from] the wa l [and] the beam from the
 woodwork replies (ii, 9—11).
 [Interpreted, this] concerns the [Priest] who ... X that its stones might
 be laid in oppression and the beam of its woodwork in robbery. And
 as for that which He said, By cuting of many peoples you have
 forfeited your own soul: interpreted this concerns the condemned
 House whose judgement God wil pronounce in the midst of many
 peoples. He wil bring him thence for judgement and wil declare him
guilty in the midst of them, and wi l chastise him with fire of brimstone.
 Woe to him who builds a city with blood and founds a town upon
 falsehood! Behold, is it not from the Lord of Hosts that the peoples
 sha l labour for fire and the nations sha l strive for naught? (ii, 12—
 13).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Spouter of Lies who led many astray
 that he might build his city of vanity with blood and raise a
 congregation on deceit, causing many thereby to perform a service of
 vanity for the sake of its glory, and to be pregnant with [works] of
 deceit, that their labour might be for nothing and that they might be
 punished with fire who vilified and outraged the elect of God.
 For as the waters cover the sea, so sha l the earth be fi led with the
 knowledge of the glory of the Lord (ii, 14).
 Interpreted, [this means that] when they return ... XI the lies. And
 afterwards, knowledge shal be revealed to them abundantly, like the
 waters of the sea.
 Woe to him who causes his neighbours to drink; who pours out his
 venom to make them drunk that he may gaze on their feasts (ii, 15)
 Interpreted, this concerns the Wicked Priest who pursued the
 Teacher of Righteousness to the house of his exile that he might
 confuse him with his venomous fury. And at the time appointed for rest,
 for the Day of Atonement, he appeared before them to confuse them,
 and to cause them to stumble on the Day of Fasting, their Sabbath of
 repose.
 You have fi led yourself with ignominy more than with glory. Drink
 also, and stagger! The cup of the Lord’s right hand sha l come round
 to you and shame shal come on your glory (ii, 16).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Priest whose ignominy was greater
 than his glory. For he did not circumcise the foreskin of his heart, and
 he walked in the ways of drunkenness that he might quench his thirst.
 But the cup of the wrath of God shal confuse him, multiplying his ... and
 the pain of ...
[For the violence done to Lebanon shal overwhelm you, and the
 destruction of the beasts] X I sha l terrify you, because of the blood of
 men and the violence done to the land, the city, and al its
 inhabitants ( i, 17).
 Interpreted, this saying concerns the Wicked Priest, inasmuch as he
 shal be paid the reward which he himself tendered to the Poor. For
 Lebanon is the Council of the Community; and the beasts are the
 simple of Judah who keep the Law. As he himself plotted the
 destruction of the Poor, so wi l God condemn him to destruction. And
 as for that which He said, Because of the blood of the city and the
 violence done to the land: interpreted, the city is Jerusalem where the
 Wicked Priest committed abominable deeds and defiled the Temple
 of God. The violence done to the land: these are the cities of Judah
 where he robbed the Poor of their possessions.
 Of what use is an idol that its maker should shape it, a molten
 image, a fatling of lies? For the craftsman puts his trust in his own
 creation when he makes dumb idols (ii, 18).
 Interpreted, this saying concerns al the idols of the nations which
 they make so that they may serve and worship them. But they shal not
 deliver them on the Day of Judgement.
 Woe [to him who says] to wood, ‘Awake’, and to dumb [stone,
 ‘Arise’! Can such a thing give guidance? Behold, it is covered with
 gold and silver but there is no spirit within it. But the Lord is in His
 holy Temple]: X I let a l the earth be silent before Him! (lii, 19—20).
 Interpreted, this concerns al the nations which serve stone and
 wood. But on the Day of Judgement, God wil destroy from the earth al
 idolatrous and wicked men.
 Commentary on Zephaniah (1Q15, 4Q170)
The relics of a Zephaniah Commentary from Cave 1, covering Zeph.
 i, 18-ii, 2 and using palaeo-Hebrew letters for the divine name, are
 badly mutilated. A lengthy quotation is folowed by the word pesher
 (interpretation), and the expression ‘land of Judah’ implies that the
 divine anger spoken of by the prophet was understood to be directed
 against the Judaeans. Two smal fragments from Cave 4 represent two
 broken lines of Zephaniah i, 12—13; a couple of words which are not
 biblical precede the introductory formula, pishro (its interpretation), but
 the actual commentary is lost. The two excerpts are presented in the
 order of the biblical text.
 For the editio princeps, see D. Barthélemy and J. T. Milik, DJD, I,
 80; J. M. Alegro, DJD, V, 42.
 4Q170
 The Lord [wi l not do goo]d, nor wi l He do i l. And [their goods sha l
 be pl]undered and [their houses laid waste.] ... cannot ... (Zeph. i, 12—
 13)-Its interpretation [concerns] ...
 1Q15
 ... [in the fire of His] jealous [wrath, a l the earth] sha l be consumed;
 [for a fu l, yea, sudden end He wi l make of al the inha]bitants of the
 earth (Zeph. i,18). Come together [and hold an assembly, 0
 shameless nation, before you are driven away; like] cha f, a day has
 passed away [before there comes upon you] the fierce anger of the
 Lord (ii, 1—2). The interpretation [of this saying concerns al the
 inhabitants] of the land of Judah ...
 Commentary on Malachi (Previously Genesis
 Commentary B)
(4Q253a)
 The document reproduces Malachi iii, 16—18, folowed by the
 beginning of its interpretation.
 For the editio princeps, see G. J. Brooke, DJD, XXI, 212—5.
 [Then those fearing the Lord spoke with one another,] and he heeded
 [and heard them and a book of memorial was wri ten before him of
 those who feared the Lord and thought of his name.] They shal be
 mine, [says the Lord of hosts, my special possession on the day
 when I act, and I wi l spare] them as [a man spares his son who
 serves him. Then once more you shal distinguish] between the
 righteous and the wicked, [between one who serves God and one who
 does not serve him (Mal. iii, 16—18). Its interpretation] ... the
 righteousness and over ...
 Commentary on Psalms (1Q16, 4Q171, 4Q173)
 Cave I has preserved a few scraps of a commentary on Psalms Ivii
 and Ixviii. Most of them are too smal for a coherent translation, but frs.
 9—10 mention the Kittim (Romans), the name of the final enemy. More
 importantly, two manuscripts with Herodian script from Cave 4
 (4Q171, 4Q173) include interpretations of Psalms. The bulk of the text
 is devoted to Psalm xxxvii, in which the destiny of the just and the
 wicked is expounded in connection with the story of the sect and its
opponents, and in particular the struggle between the Teacher of
 Righteousness and the Wicked Priest. Recognizable remains of
 Psalms xlv and cxxvii also survive.
 For the editio princeps, see J. T. Milik, DJD, I, 81—2; J. M. Alegro
 and A. A. Anderson, DJD, V, 42—53.
 4Q171
 I ... [Be sil]ent before [the Lord and] long for him, and be not heated
 against the successful, the man who [achi]eves his plans (xxxvii, 7a).
 Its interpretation concerns the Liar who has led astray many by his
 lying words so that they chose frivolous things and heeded not the
 interpreter of knowledge in order to ... I they shal perish by the sword
 and famine and plague.
 Relent from anger and abandon wrath. Do not be angry; it tends
 only to evil, for the wicked sha l be cut o f (8-9a).
 Interpreted, this concerns a l those who return to the Law, to those
 who do not refuse to turn away from their evil. For al those who are
 stubborn in turning away from their iniquity sha l be cut off.
 But those who wait for the Lord sha l possess the land (9b).
 Interpreted, this is the congregation of His elect who do His wi l.
 A li tle while and the wicked sha l be no more; I wi l look towards his
 place but he sha l not be there (10).
 Interpreted, this concerns a l the wicked. At the end of the forty years
 they shal be blotted out and no [evil] man shal be found on the earth.
 But the humble shal possess the land and delight in abundant
 peace (I).
 Interpreted, this concerns [the congregation of the] Poor who shal
 accept the season of penance and shal be delivered from al the
 snares of Belial. Afterwards, al who possess the earth shal delight
 and prosper on exquisite food.
The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes [his teeth a]t
 him. [The Lo]rd laughs at him, for He sees that his day is coming (12
 —13).
 Interpreted, this concerns the violent of the Covenant who are in the
 House of Judah, who have plotted to destroy those who practise the
 law, who are in the Council of the Community. And God wil not forsake
 them to their hands.
 The wicked draw the sword and bend their bow to bring down the
 poor and needy and to slay the upright of way. Their sword sha l enter
 their own heart and their bows sha l be broken (14-15).
 Interpreted, this concerns the wicked of Ephraim and Manasseh,
 who shal seek to lay hands on the Priest and the men of his Council at
 the time of trial which shal come upon them. But God wil redeem them
 from out of their hand. And afterwards, they shal be delivered into the
 hand of the violent among the nations for judgement.
 vacat Beter is the li tle which the righteous has than the
 abundance of many wicked people (16).
 [Interpreted, this concerns ... those who practise the law ... For the
 ar[ms of the wicked shal be broken, but] the Lor[d upholds the
 righteous] (17).
 [The Lord knows the days of the perfect and their portion sha l be
 for ever. In evil times they sha l not be shamed] (18-19a).
 I ... to the penitents of the desert who, saved, shal live for a
 thousand generations and to whom al the glory of Adam shal belong,
 as also to their seed for ever.
 And in the days of famine they shal be [satisfi]ed, but the wicked
 sha l perish (19b-20a).
 Interpreted, this [means that] He wi l keep them alive during the
 famine and the time of humiliation, whereas many shal perish from
famine and plague, al those who have not departed [from there] to be
 with the Congregation of His elect.
 And those who love the Lord shal be like the pride of pastures
 (20b).
 Interpreted, [this concerns] the congregation of His elect, who shal
 be leaders and princes... of the flock among their herds.
 Like smoke they shal al of them vanish away (20C).
 Interpreted, [this] concerns the princes [of wickedness] who have
 oppressed His holy people, and who shal perish like smoke [blown
 away by the wind].
 The wicked borrows and does not repay, but the righteous is
 generous and gives. Truly, those whom He [blesses shal possess]
 the land, but those whom He curses [sha l be cut of] (21-2).
 Interpreted, this concerns the congregation of the Poor, who [shal
 possess] the whole world as an inheritance. They shal possess the
 High Mountain of Israel [for ever], and shal enjoy [everlasting] delights
 in His Sanctuary. [But those who] shal be cut o f, they are the violent [of
 the nations and] the wicked of Israel; they shal be cut off and blotted
 out for ever.
 The steps of the man are confirmed by the Lord and He delights in
 al his ways; though [he stumble, he shal not fal, for the Lord sha l
 support his hand] (23-4).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Priest, the Teacher of [Righteousness
 whom] God chose to stand before Him, for He established him to build
 for Himself the congregation of...
 I [have been young] and now am old, yet [I have] not [seen the
 righteous] forsaken, or his children begging bread. He is [ever] giving
 libera ly and lending and [his] children become a blessing (25-6).
 Interpreted, this concerns ...
IV The unjust shal be destroyed for ever and the children of the
 wi[cked sha l be cut o f] (28).
 These are the violent ...
 The righteou[s sha l possess the land and dwel] upon it for ever
 (29).
 [Interpreted, this concerns] ...
 [The mouth of the righteous u ters] wisdom and his tongue speaks
 [justice. The law of God is in his heart, his steps wi l not slip (30-31).
 Interpreted, it concerns ... ] ...
 The wicked watches out for the righteous and seeks [to slay him.
 The Lord wi l not abandon him into his hand or] let him be
 condemned when he is tried (3 2-3).
 Interpreted, this concerns the Wicked [Priest] who [watched the
 Teacher of Righteousness] that he might put him to death [because of
 the ordinance] and the law which he sent to him. But God wil not
 aban[don him and wi l not let him be condemned when he is] tried.
 And [God] wil pay him his reward by delivering him into the hand of the
 violent of the nations, that they may execute upon him [judgement].
 [Wait for the Lo]rd and keep to His way, and [He] wi l exalt you to
 possess the land; you wi l lo[ok] on the destruction of the wicked (34).
 [Interpreted, it concerns ... ] who wil see the judgement of
 wickedness and with his elect wi l rejoice in the heritage of truth.
 I [have seen] a wicked man overbearing . [like a cedar of
 Lebanon]. I passed before [him, and], lo, he was [no more], though I
 [sought him,] he could not [be found (35-6).
 Interpreted, it concerns] the Liar who ... against the e[lec]t of God,
 [and sought] to bring to an end ...
 [Mark the blameless man and behold] the upright, [for there is
posterity for the ma]n of peace (37).
 Its interpretation con[cerns ... ] peac[e].
 But the transgressors sha l be altogether destroyed; the post [erity
 of the wicked sha l be cut o f (38).
 Interpreted, it concerns ... ] wi l perish and be cut off from the midst of
 the congregation of the Community ...
 ... he delivers them from the wicked [and saves them, because
 they take refuge in him (40).
 Interpreted, it concerns ... ] God wi l save them and deliver them from
 the w[icked ... ]
 For the choirmaster: according to [the lil¡]es. [For the sons of
 Korah. Maskil. A song oflove(Ps. xlv, I).
 Its interpretation is that th]ey are the seven divisions of the penitents
 of Is[rael ... ].
 My he[art] is astir with a good word. I speak of my work to the King
 (xlv, I).
 [Its interpretation ... spir]it of holiness for ... books of...
 And my tongue is the pen of [a speedy scribe (xlv, I).
 Its interpretation] concerns the Teacher of [Righteousness] ... God
 with an answering tongue ...
 4Q173
 [... Vai]nis it for you to rise early and lie down late. You sha l eat the
 bread of toil; [he sha l feed those who love him in their] sleep (cxxvii,
 2).
 [Its interpretation is th]at they sha l seek ... Teacher of Righteousness
 ... [pri]est at the end of the a[ge] ...
Commentary on an Unidentifiable Text
 (4Q183)
 Three fragments of a biblical commentary, indicated by the
 introductory formula, ‘And that which he said’, which is common in
 pesher literature, have been published by J. M. Alegro. None of the
 quotations has been preserved, but the phraseology and the historical
 alusions recal the Habakkuk Commentary and other pesharim. The
 divine names ‘God’ (el) and ‘the Lord’ (Yhwh) are written in palaeo
Hebrew script. Only fr. 2 is suitable for translation. 4Q172 (DJD, V, 50
1) is also an amalgam of commentaries on unidentified texts, but the
 fragments are so smal as to preclude altogether any translation.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 81-2.
 I their enemies. And they profaned their sanctuary... from them. And
 they rose for battles one [with another] against his covenant. God
 saved and delivered... goodwi l. And he gave them a single heart to
 wal[k in the way of his truth. And they despised] al the wealth of
 wickedness and kept apart from the wa[y of wickedness] ... the erring
 spirit and with a tongue of truth ... And they atoned for their iniquity
 through [their] strokes... their iniquity. vacat And that which he said, ...
 Florilegium or Midrash on the Last Days
 (4Q174)
 This colection of texts assembled from 2 Samuel and the Psalter, and
combined with other scriptural passages, serves to present the
 sectarian doctrine identifying the Community with the Temple, and to
 announce the coming of the two Messiahs, the ‘Branch of David’ and
 the ‘Interpreter of the Law’. Originating from Cave 4 (4Q174) and
 known also as ‘Florilegium’, it probably belongs to the late first century
 BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 53-7.
 I ... [I wi l appoint a place for my people Israel and wi l plant them that
 they may dwel there and be troubled no more by their] enemies. No
 son of iniquity [sha l a flict them again] as formerly, from the day that
 [I set judges] over my people Israel (2 Sam. vii, 10).
 This is the House which [He wil build for them in the] last days, as it
 is written in the book of Moses, In the sanctuary which Thy hands
 have established, O Lord, the Lord shal reign for ever and ever
 (Exod. xv, 17-18). This is the House into which [the unclean shal] never
 [enter, nor the uncircumcised,] nor the Ammonite, nor the Moabite, nor
 the half-breed, nor the foreigner, nor the stranger, ever; for there shal
 My Holy Ones be. [Its glory shal endure] for ever; it shal appear above
 it perpetua ly And strangers shal lay it waste no more, as they formerly
 laid waste the Sanctuary of Israel because of its sin. He has
 commanded that a Sanctuary of men be built for Himself, that there
 they may send up, like the smoke of incense, the works of the Law.
 And concerning His words to David, And I [wi lgive] you [rest] from a l
 your enemies (2 Sam. vii, 11), this means that He wil give them rest
 from al the children of Belial who cause them to stumble so that they
 may be destroyed [by their errors,] just as they came with a [devilish]
 plan to cause the [sons] of light to stumble and to devise against them
 a wicked plot, that [they might become subject] to Belial in their
 [wicked] straying.
 The Lord declares to you that He wi l build you a House (2 Sam.
 vii, 11c).1 I wi l raise up your seed after you (2 Sam. vii, 12). I wi l
establish the throne of his kingdom [for ever] (2 Sam. vii, 13). [I wi lbe]
 his father and he sha l be my son (2 Sam. vii, 14). He is the Branch of
 David who shal arise with the Interpreter of the Law [to rule] in Zion [at
 the end] of time. As it is written, I wi l raise up the tent of David that is
 fa len (Amos ix, 11). That is to say, the falen tent of David is he who
 shal arise to save Israel.
 Explanation of How blessed is the man who does not walk in the
 counsel of the wicked (Ps. i, 1). Interpreted, this saying [concerns]
 those who turn aside from the way [of the people] as it is written in the
 book of Isaiah the Prophet concerning the last days, It came to pass
 that [the Lord turned me aside, as with a mighty hand, from walking in
 the way of ] this people (Isa. viii, 11). They are those of whom it is
 written in the book of Ezekiel the Prophet, The Levites [strayed far
 from me, folowing] their idols (Ezek. xliv, Prophet, are the sons of
 Zadok who [seek their own] counsel and folow 10). They are the sons
 of Zadok who [seek their own] counsel and folow [their own inclination]
 apart from the Council of the Community.
 [Why] do the nations [rage] and the peoples meditate [vanity? Why
 do the kings of the earth] rise up, [and the] princes take counsel
 together against the Lord and against [His Messiah]? (Ps. ii, 1).
 Interpreted, this saying concerns [the kings of the nations] who shal
 [rage against] the elect of Israel in the last days. 11 This shal be the
 time of the trial to co[me concerning the house of J]udah so as to
 perfect ... Belial, and a remnant of the people shal be left according to
 the lot (assigned to them), and they shal practise the whole Law...
 Moses. This is the time of which it is written in the book of Daniel the
 Prophet: But the wicked sha l do wickedly and sha l not understand,
 but the righteous sha l purify themselves and make themselves white
 (Dan. xii, 10). The people who know God shal be strong. They are the
 masters who understand...
 Testimonia or Messianic Anthology
(4Q175)
 This short document from Cave 4 (4Q175), dating to the early first
 century BCE and similar in literary style to the Christian Testimonia or
 colections of messianic proof-texts, includes five quotations arranged
 in four groups. Only the last of them is folowed by an interpretation.
 The first group consists of two texts from Deuteronomy referring to
 the prophet similar to Moses; the second is an extract from a prophecy
 of Balaam about the Royal Messiah; the third is a blessing of the
 Levites and, implicitly, of the Priest-Messiah.
 The last group opens with a verse from Joshua, which is then
 expounded by means of a quotation from the sectarian Psalms of
 Joshua (cf. 4Q379 below, p. 547). Most experts hold that the
 commentator, bearing in mind the biblical passage, is aluding to three
 characters: a father (‘an accursed man’) and his two sons. However,
 the verb ‘arose’ in the second sentence is in the singular, and it would
 seem correct to interpret this text as referring to the two brothers only.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 57-60.
 The Lord spoke to Moses saying:
 You have heard the words which this people have spoken to you;
 al they have said is right. Othat their heart were always like this, to
 fear me and to keep my commandments always, that it might be wel
 with them and their children for ever! (Deut. v, 28-9). I wi l raise up for
 them a Prophet like you from among their brethren. I wi l put my
 words into his mouth and he shal tel them al that I command him.
 And I wi l require a reckoning of whoever wi l not listen to the words
 which the Prophet sha l speak in my Name (Deut. xviii, 18-19).
 He took up his discourse and said:
 Oracle of Balaam son of Beor. Oracle of the man whose eye is
penetrating. Oracle of him who has heard the words of God, who
 knows the wisdom of the Most High and sees the vision of the
 Almighty, who fa ls and his eyes are opened. I see him but not now. I
 behold him but not near. A star shal come out of Jacob and a
 sceptre sha l rise out of Israel; he sha l crush the temples of Moab
 and destroy a l the children of Sheth (Num. xxiv, 15-17).
 And of Levi he said:
 Give Thy Tummim to Levi, and Thy Urimto Thy pious one whom
 Thou didst test at Massah, and with whom Thou didst quarrel at the
 waters of Meribah; who said to his father and mother, ‘I know you not’,
 and who did not acknowledge his brother, or know his sons. For they
 observed Thy word and kept Thy Covenant. They shal cause Thy
 precepts to shine before Jacoband Thy Law before Israel. They sha l
 send up incense towards Thy nostrils and place a burnt-o fering upon
 Thine altar. Bless his power, O Lord, and delight in the work of his
 hands. Smite the loins of his adversaries and let his enemies rise no
 more (Deut. xxxiii, 8-11).
 When Joshua had finished offering praise and thanksgiving, he said:
 Cursed be the man who rebuilds this city! May he lay its
 foundation on his first-born, and set its gate upon his youngest son
 (Josh. vi, 26). Behold, an accursed man, a man of Belial, has risen to
 become a fowler’s net to his people, and a cause of destruction to al
 his neighbours. And [his brother] arose [and ruled in li]es, both being
 instruments of violence. They have rebuilt [this city and have set up for
 it] a wal and towers to make of it a stronghold of ungodliness in Israel,
 and a horror in Ephraim and in Judah ... They have committed an
 abomination in the land, and a great blasphemy among the children [of
 Jacob. They have shed blood] like water upon the ramparts of the
 daughter of Zion and within the precincts of Jerusalem.
 Ordinances or Commentaries on Biblical Law
(4Q159, 4Q513-14)
 Three manuscripts from Cave 4 (4Q159, 4Q513-14), and probably
 belonging to the turn of the era, include reinterpretations of various
 biblical laws.
 In the first statute, the interpreter deduces from Deut. xxiii, 25—6 that
 a poor man may eat ears of corn in the field of another person, but is
 not alowed to take any home. On a threshing-floor, however, he may
 both eat and gather provisions for his family.
 Next folows a statute referring to the half-shekel tax contributed by
 every Israelite aged twenty to the upkeep of the place of worship. Later
 Jewish tradition interpreted this passage as instituting a yearly tax to
 be paid by every male Israelite (cf. Neh. x, 32; Matth. xvii, 24-7; see
 also the treatise Shekalim or Shekel Dues in the Mishnah). The
 Qumran ordinance, however, insists on one single payment, thereby
 complying with the scriptural rule and at the same time withholding
 regular support from the Temple in Jerusalem. Here 4Q159 and
 4Q513, frs. 1—2, partly overlap.
 The third statute (4Q159, frs. 2-4) deals with the prohibition against
 seling an Israelite as a slave (cf. Lev. xxv, 39-46); with cases to be
 judged by a court of twelve magistrates; with the forbidden interchange
 of garments between men and women (cf. Deut. xxii, 5); and with the
 charge laid by a husband against his wife that she was not a virgin
 when he married her (Deut. xxii, 13-21).
 Fina ly, 4Q513, frs. 2-4, and 4Q514 legislate on purity rules.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 6-9; M. Bai let, DJD, VI, 287-98.
 4Q159
 I ... [And] anyone who has made of it a threshing-floor or a winepress,
 any destitute [Israelite] who goes into a threshing-floor may eat there
 and gather for himself and for [his] hou[sehold. But should he walk
among corn standing in] the field, he may eat but may not bring it to his
 house to store it.
 Concerning... the money of valuation that a man gives as ransom for
 his life, it sha l be half [a shekel... ] He shal give it only once in his life.
 Twenty gerahs make one shekel according to [the shekel of the
 sanctuary (cf. Exod. xxx, 12-13) ... ] For the 600,000, one hundred
 talents; for the 3,000, half a talent (=30 minahs); [for the 500, five
 minahs;] and for the 50, half a minah, (which is) twenty-five shekels (cf.
 Exod. xxxviii, 25-6)
 4Q159, frs. 2-4
 ... before Isra[el]. They sha l [n]ot serve Gentiles among foreign[ers, for
 He has brought them out from the land of] Egypt, and He has
 commanded concerning them that none shal be sold as a slave... [t]en
 men and two priests, and they shal be judged before these twelve...
 spoke in Israel against a person, they shal inquire in accordance with
 them. Whosoever shal rebel..., shal be put to death for he has acted
 wilfuly.
 Let no man’s garment be worn by a woman al [the days of her life].
 Let him [not] be covered with a woman’s mantle, nor wear a woman’s
 tunic, for this is an abomination.
 If a man accuses a virgin of Israel (that she is not a virgin), if this is
 when he marries her, let him say so and they shal examine her
 [concerning her] trustworthiness. If he has not lied concerning her, she
 shal be put to death. But if he has humiliated her [false]ly, he shal be
 fined two minahs, [and] shal [not] divorce her al his life....
 4Q513
 ... [Tw]enty [gerahs] make a shekel according to the she[kel of the
 sanctuary ...] The half-[shekel consists of twe]lv[e me]ahs, [two] zuzim
 ... also sources of uncleanness. The ephah and the bath, also sources
 of uncleanness, have the same capacity, (viz.) ten ‘issarons (=tenths).
A bath of wine corresponds to an ephah of corn. The seah consists of
 three and one-third ‘issarons, sources of uncleanness, and the tithe of
 the ephah [is the ‘issaron].
 4Q514
 I He shal not eat... for al the unclean... to count for [him seven days of
 wa]shing and he shal wash and cleanse on the d[a]y of [his]
 purification. Whoever has not begun his purification from his ‘fo[un]t’
 [sha l not eat]. [Neither sha l he eat] in his first (degree of) uncleanness.
 Al those temporarily unclean shal wash on the day of their
 [pu]rification, and cleanse (their garments) with water and shal
 become clean. Afterwards they may eat their bread according to the
 law of purity. Whoever has not begun his purification from his ‘fount’
 shal not eat (again?) in his first (degree of) uncleanness. Whoever is
 sti l in his first (degree of) uncleanness shal not eat. Al those
 temporarily [un]clean sha l on the day of their pu[rification] wash and
 cleanse (their garments) with water and they shal be clean. Afterwards
 they may eat their bread according to the l[aw. None] shal e[at] or
 drink with whomsoev[er] prepares...
 The Heavenly Prince Melchizedek
 (11Q13)
 A striking mid-first-century BCE document, composed of eleven
 fragments from Cave 11 and centred on the mysterious figure of
 Melchizedek, was first published by A. S. van der Woude in 1965. It
 takes the form of an eschatological midrash in which the proclamation
 of liberty to the captives at the end of days (Isa. lxi, 1) is understood as
 being part of the general restoration of property during the year of
Jubilee (Lev. xxv, 13), seen in the Bible (Deut. xv, 2) as a remission of
 debts.
 The heavenly deliverer is Melchizedek. Identical with the archangel
 Michael, he is the head of the ‘sons of Heaven’ or ‘gods of Justice’ and
 is referred to as elohim and el. The same terminology occurs in the
 Songs for the Holocaust of the Sabbath. These Hebrew words
 normaly mean ‘God’, but in certain specific contexts Jewish tradition
 also explains elohim as primarily designating a ‘judge’. Here
 Melchizedek is portrayed as presiding over the final Judgement and
 condemnation of his demonic counterpart, Belial/Satan, the Prince of
 Darkness, elsewhere also caled Melkiresha’ (cf. pp. 391, 570). The
 great act of deliverance is expected to occur on the Day of Atonement
 at the end of the tenth Jubilee cycle.
 This manuscript sheds valuable light not only on the Melchizedek
 figure in the Epistle to the Hebrews vii, but also on the development of
 the messianic concept in the New Testament and early Christianity.
 For the editio princeps, see F. García Martinez, E. J. C. Tigchelaar
 and A. S. van der Woude, DJD, XX I, 221-41.
 Frs. 1-4
 I... And concerning that which He said, In [this] year ofJubilee [each of
 you shal return to his property (Lev. xxv, 13); and likewise, And this is
 the manner of release:] every creditor sha l release that which he has
 lent [to his neighbour. He sha l not exact it of his neighbour and his
 brother], for God’s release [has been proclaimed] (Deut. xv, 2). [And it
 wi l be proclaimed at] the end of days concerning the captives as [He
 said, To proclaim liberty to the captives (Isa. lxi, 1). Its interpretation is
 that He] wi l assign them to the Sons of Heaven and to the inheritance
 of Melchizedek; f[or He wil cast] their [lot] amid the po[rtions of
 Melchize]dek, who wi l return them there and wil proclaim to them
 liberty, forgiving them [the wrong-doings] of a l their iniquities.
 And this thing wi l [occur] in the first week of the Jubilee that folows
 the nine Jubilees. And the Day of Atonement is the e[nd of the] tenth
[Ju]bilee, when al the Sons of [Light] and the men of the lot of
 Mel[chi]zedek wi l be atoned for. [And] a statute concerns them [to
 prov]ide them with their rewards. For this is the moment of the Year of
 Grace for Melchizedek. [And h]e wil, by his strength, judge the holy
 ones of God, executing judgement as it is written concerning him in the
 Songs of David, who said, ELOHIM has taken his place in the divine
 council; in the midst of the gods he holds judgement (Psalms lxxxii,
 1). And it was concerning him that he said, (Let the assembly of the
 peoples) return to the height above them; EL (god) wi l judge the
 peoples (Psalms vii, 7-8). As for that which he s[aid, How long wi l you]
 judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah (Psalms lxxxii,
 2), its interpretation concerns Belial and the spirits of his lot [who]
 rebeled by turning away from the precepts of God to ... And
 Melchizedek wi l avenge the vengeance of the judgements of God...
 and he wil drag [them from the hand of] Belial and from the hand of al
 the sp[irits of] his [lot]. And a l the ‘gods [of Justice’] wi l come to his aid
 [to] attend to the de[struction] of Belial. And the height is ... a l the sons
 of God... this ... This is the day of [Peace/Salvation] concerning which
 [God] spoke [through Isa]iah the prophet, who said, [How] beautiful
 upon the mountains are the feet of the messenger who proclaims
 peace, who brings good news, who proclaims salvation, who says to
 Zion: Your ELOHIM [reigns] (Isa. lii, 7). Its interpretation; the
 mountains are the prophets... and the messenger is the Anointed one
 of the spirit, concerning whom Dan[iel] said, [Until an anointed one, a
 prince (Dan. ix, 25)] ... [And he who brings] good [news] , who
 proclaims [salvation]: it is concerning him that it is written... [To
 comfort a l who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion] (Isa. lxi,
 2-3). To comfort [those who mourn: its interpretation], to make them
 understand al the ages of t[ime] ... In truth ... wi l turn away from Belial...
 by the judgement[s] of God, as it is written concerning him, [who says
 toZion] ; your ELOHIM reigns. Zion is ..., those who uphold the
 Covenant, who turn from walking [in] the way of the people. And your
 ELOHIM is [Melchizedek, who wil save them from] the hand of Belial.
 As for that which He said, Then you sha l send abroad the trump[et
 in] a l the land (Lev. xxv, 9) ...
Consolations or Tanhumim
 (4Q176)
 A large number of smal fragments from a Cave 4 manuscript (4Q176),
 edited by J. M. Alegro in 1968, represent a scriptural anthology
 centred on the theme of divine consolation. Originaly, each citation
 was accompanied by a sectarian exegesis, but only a few examples of
 the latter survive. The majority of the extant remains belong to Isaiah xl
lv (Ps. lxxix, 2-3; Isa. xl, 1-5; xli, 8-9; xlix, 13-17; xliii, 1-2, 4-6; li, 22-3; lii,
 1-3; liv, 4-10; lii, 1-2; Zech. xiii, 9). The translated passage is based on
 Psalm lxxix, 2-3, and is folowed by a new title—From the Book of
 Isaiah: Consolations—and the quotation of the opening verses of Isa.
 xl. The four asterisks symbolize the Tetragram indicated in the
 manuscript simply by dots.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 60-67.
 I And he shal accomplish Thy miracles and Thy righteousness among
 Thy people. And they shal... Thy sanctuary, and shal dispute with the
 kingdoms over the blood of ... Jerusalem and shal see the bodies of
 Thy priests... and none to bury them (Ps. lxxix, 3). From the Book of
 Isaiah: Consolations [Comfort, comfort, my people] —says your God 
speak to the heart of Jerusalem and c[ry to her that] her [bondage is
 completed], that her punishment is accepted, that she has received
 from the hand of **** double for a lhersins... (Isa. xl, 1-3).
 Catenae or Interpretation of Biblical Texts on
 the Last Days
(4Q177, 4Q182)
 These two documents consist of over thirty fragments, none of which
 amounts to units of coherent text. The connecting theme is
 eschatology, with the phrase ‘at the end of days’ appearing half a
 dozen times. The majority of the biblical quotations are from the
 Psalms (Ps. vi, xi, xii, xiii, xvi), but explicit mentions are also made of
 ‘the Book of the Law’ (or possibly ‘the Second Law’) (4Q177, frs. 1-4,
 1. 14), ‘the Book of Ezekiel, the prophet’ (4Q177, fr. 7, 1.3), and ‘the
 Book of Jerem[iah the prophet?]’ (4Q182, fr. 1, 1. 4). The citations are
 introduced by ‘as it is written‘, and the expository sections start with
 pesher. The folowing typicaly sectarian expressions are attested:
 ‘party of light’ (fr. 1-4, 1. 8), ‘men of his council’ (ibid., 1. 16),
 ‘congregation of seekers of smooth things’ (fr. 9, 1. 4), ‘men of Belial’
 (fr. 10-11, 1. 4), ‘Interpreter of the Law’ (ibid., 1. 5), ‘sons of light’ (fr.
 12-13 i, 11.7, 11), ‘council of the Community’ (fr. 14,1. 5).
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 64-74, 80-81; cf. J. Strugnel, RQ 7(1970), 236-46, 256.
 4Q177 frs. 10-11, 7, 9, 20, 26 (as reconstructed
 by Strugne l)
 ... The interpretation of the saying concerns the purifying of the heart of
 the men... to try them and refine them... by the spirit and the pure and
 the purified... [As for that which] he said, Lest the enemy say, [I have
 prevailed over him] (Ps. xiii, 5) ... They are the congregation of the
 seekers of smooth things who... [unt]il they seek to destroy... by their
 jealousy and hostilit[y] ... The int[erpretation of this word concerns] ...
 [whi]ch is written in the Book of Ezekiel the pr[ophet] ...
 [The interpretation of the saying concerns the end] of days when
 there wi l be gathered against them ...
G. Biblica ly Based Apocryphal Works
 ‘Jubilees’, Israel Antiquities Authority
Jubilees
 (4Q216-28, 1Q17-18, 2Q19-20, 3Q5, 4Q482(?),
 11Q12)
 The pseudepigraphon, known prior to Qumran from a complete
 Ethiopic and partial Greek, Latin and Syriac translations, has for the
 first time surfaced in a large number of mostly smal fragments in its
 Hebrew original in five Qumran caves. The work itself is a midrashic
 rete ling of the story of Genesis (and the beginning of Exodus) in the
 form of a revelation conveyed by angels to Moses. Apart from some
 4Q relics, the texts from 1-3Q and 11Q are too mutilated to provide the
 basis for an English translation and their chief significance lies in their
 attestation of a Hebrew original generaly close to the account
 preserved in the ancient versions.
 The 4Q material includes some larger fragments suitable for
 rendering into English, and 4Q225, surnamed pseudo-Jubilees by the
 editors, but which could just as wel be accepted simply as an
 alternative account, reveals supplementary material of some
 importance not only for Jubilees in general, but also for the study of the
 Akedah or story of the sacrifice of Isaac, certain features of which
 receive here their first pre-Christian attestation.
 4Q216, which in part may be the earliest Jubilees manuscript and
 should be dated palaeographicaly to the last quarter of the second
 century BCE, testifies in the form of smal fragments to the beginning
 of the book (between 1, 1 and 11, 24 of the Ethiopic version). It
 contains the Hebrew title of the work, Book of the Divisions of the
 Times, repeated also in other 4Q fragments, a title already known from
 the Damascus Document (XVI, 3). 4Q217 and 218, the first consisting
 of eleven tiny papyrus fragments and the second of a single smal
 leather fragment, both probably derive from the opening chapters of
 Jubilees. 4Q219, also poorly preserved, has preserved tit-bits from
chapters xxi, 1 to XXI, 1. Its only noteworthy contribution is that in col.
 11, lines 35-6, it dates the death of Abraham correctly to the forty-third
 jubilee counted from the creation, and not to the forty-fourth, as the
 Ethiopic version does. 4QJube 4Q220 supplies a single largish, hence
 translatable, fragment of Jub. xxi, 5-10 written in an early Herodian
 script (last three decades of the first century BCE). It occasionaly
 overlaps with 4Q219, thus permitting the fi ling in of two gaps. The
 remaining four 4QJub manuscripts are once again so fragmentary that
 no translation is possible. 4Q221 consists of thirty-seven tiny
 fragments, covering smal identified portions of Jub. xxi, 22 to xxxix, 9.
 The six fragments of 4Q222 echo Jub. xxv, 9-12; XXVI, 6-7 and XLIX,
 5(?) and the badly worn papyrus manuscripts of 4Q223-4, where
 identifiable, reflect Jub. XXX I, 18 to XLI, 10.
 Remains of three Hebrew manuscripts (4Q225-7) have preserved a
 writing akin to Jubilees or representing a discrepant version of it. In
 either case, ‘Pseudo-Jubilees’, the title chosen by the editors, is no
 doubt a misnomer. Palaeographicaly, 4Q225 is dated to the turn of
 the era; 4Q226 to the second half, and 4Q227 to the final decades, of
 the first century BCE. Of the three fragments, the first and the third are
 very damaged, but substantial parts of fragment 2 are extant. The
 author recounts the sacrifice of Isaac with details which differ from the
 Genesis story and display close paralels to the post-biblical
 representation of the Akedah or Binding of Isaac, anticipating features
 known from the Palestinian Targums (Ps. Jonathan and Neofiti on
 Gen. xxii, 10 in col. 11.4; Ps. Jon. on Gen. xxii, 11, and Pirqe de-Rabbi
 Eliezer 105c on the same passage in col. 11.1). The presence of
 angels at the sacrifice is repeatedly attested in the Targums. 4Q225
 provides the earliest (pre-Christian) evidence for the rabbinic story of
 Isaac’s voluntary self-sacrifice which is thought to have supplied a
 model for the formulation by New Testament writers of the teaching on
 the sacrificial death of Jesus. Cf. G. Vermes, Scripture and Tradition
 in Judaism (Bri l, 1961), 193-227. Cf. also G. Vermes, ‘New Light on
 the Akedah from 4Q225’, JJS 47 (1996), 140-46.
 4Q226 or psJubb is made up of fourteen fragments, half of them
 unidentifiable. The first six mention Egypt, the wilderness, Joshua’s
 crossing (of the Jordan) and the land of Canaan. Fr. 7, the largest,
returns to the aftermath of the sacrifice of Isaac and furnishes a text
 closely resembling 4Q225 2, ii. The badly damaged fr. 2 of 4Q227 is
 centred on the figure of Enoch, instructed by angels, testifying against
 his contemporaries and the angels caled Watchers. Alusion is made
 to his writing activity, including astronomical knowledge which was to
 stop the righteous from going astray. The two smal fragments of
 4Q227 contain references to Moses and to Enoch (cf. Jub. IV, 17-24)
 and 4Q228 consists of one large and eight tiny fragments, one of
 which (fr. 1, 1. 9) displays the phrase, ‘For thus is written in the
 Divisions [of times]’. Hence it is identified as an unknown work quoting
 the Book of Jubilees.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q216-28, see J. C. VanderKam and J.
 T. Milik, DJD, X I, 1-185. For 11Q12, see F. García Martínez et al.,
 DJD, XX I, 207—20.
 4Q220, fr. 1 (Jub. xxi, 5-10)
 [And do not go a]fter idols and after... and do not [eat any bl]ood of a
 wild or domestic animal or a bird which [flies] ... [And if you sac]rifice a
 peace-offering as a burnt-offering, sacrifice it for (God’s) pleasure.
 And sprinkle their blood on the alt[ar. And al] the flesh of the burnt
offering you wi l offer on the alt[ar] together with the flour mixed with
 [o]i[l] of its meal-offering.... [You] wi l offer a l on the altar as a fire
offering, a pleasant odour before God. [And the ... of peace-offerin]gs
 you wi l offer on the fire which is on the altar. And the fat [which is on ...
 and] the [f]at which is on the entrails and the kidneys [and] the [fat
 which is on them (cf. 4Q219)] ... and the lobes of the liver with the
 kidneys you shal remove [and you shal offer (cf. 4Q219)] ... with its
 offering and its libation...
 ... [on] that [day] and on the morrow...
 4Q225 (4Q226) fr. 2
I ... that so[ul] wi l be cut off... [he dwel]t in Haran for twenty [yea]rs (not
 seventeen as in Jub. XI, 12, 28). [And A]braham [said] to God,
 ‘Behold, I am naked (childless) and it is Eli[ezer, the son] of my
 household, who wi l inherit from me.’ vacat
 [And the Lo]rd [said] to A[b]raham, ‘Lift up (your eyes) and gaze at
 the stars and see and count the sand that is on the sea shore and the
 dust of the earth as to whether [they can be coun]ted. And Abraham
 bel[ieved in] G[o]d and this was reckoned for him as righteousness.
 And a son was born af[ter]wards [to Abraha]m and he caled his name
 Isaac. And the prince Ma[s]temah came [to G]od and accused
 Abraham on account of Isaac. And [G]od said [to Abra]ham, ‘Take
 your son, Isaac, [your] only (son) [whom] you [love] and offer him to me
 as a burnt-offering on one of the ... mountains [which I wi l tel] you.’ And
 he ro[se and he we]n[t] from the wels to Mo[unt Moriah] ... And
 Ab[raham] lifted up I his [ey]es [and behold there was] a fire. And he
 placed [the wood on Isaac, his son, and they went together]. And Isaac
 said to Abraham, [his father, ‘Behold there is the fire and the wood, but
 where is the lamb] for the burnt-offering?’ And Abraham said to [Isaac,
 his son, ‘God wil provide a lamb] for himself.’ Isaac said to his father,
 ‘T[ie me wel‘] (Ps. J, N on xxii, 10) ... the holy angels.standing and
 weeping over [the altar] ... his sons from the earth. And the angels of
 M[astemah] ... were rejoicing and saying, ‘Now he (Isaac) wil be
 destroyed... [we sha l see] whether he wi l be found weak and whether
 A[braham] wil be found unfaithful [to God.’ And he (God) caled,]
 ‘Abraham, Abraham.’ And he said. ‘Here am I.’ And he said, ‘N[ow I
 know that (it was a lie that?)] he (Abraham) wil no longer be loving.’
 And the Lord God blessed Is[aac al the days of his life (cf. 4Q226 7.3)
 and he begot] Jacob, and Jacob begot Levi (in the) [third (cf. 4Q226
 7.5)] genera[tion. And al] the days of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob
 and Lev[i were ... years]. And the prince Ma[s]temah was bound [and
 the holy angels (cf. 4Q226 7.6)] ... the prince Ma[s]temah, and Belial
 listened to ...
 4Q226, fr. 7
Abraham was found faithful to [G]o[d and] ... for pleasure. And the Lord
 blessed [Isaac al the days] of his life. And he begot J[acob and Jacob
 begot] Levi in the thi[rd] generation. [And al the days] of Abraham,
 Isaac and Ja[cob and Levi were... years]. And the holy angels... Fast
 here ...
 4Q227, fr. 2
 ... [E]noch after they/we taught him... six jubilees of years... [e]arth
 towards the children of men. And he testified against al of them... and
 against the Watchers. And he wrote al the ... heaven and the ways of
 its host and the [mon]ths ... [th]at the ri[ghteous] may not stray...
The Prayer of Enosh and Enoch
 (4Q369)
 Ten fragments, including three large ones, have survived of a
 manuscript written with Herodian characters, apparently recording
 prayers. There is no direct reference to the persons in whose mouths
 the words are placed, but the context seems to indicate that the first
 fragment is associated with Enosh, who according to Gen. iv, 26, was
 the first human to cal on the name of the Lord. Since line 10 in fr. 1,
 col. 1 mentions Enoch, the editors have made a reasonable inference
 in attributing to him the prayer in fr. 1, col. 11. Fr. 2 aludes to a war
 against the lands without any context and frs. 3-9 contain nothing
 inte ligible.
 For the editio princeps, see H. Attridge and J. Strugnel, DJD, X I,
 353-62.
 Fr. I
 I ... a l their fe[stiv]als in their ages... of Thy marvels, for from old times
 Thou hast ordered for them his judgement until the age of determined
 judgement through al everlasting commandments. vacat [Kenan was
 from the fourth generation and Mehalalel] his [son] was the fifth
 generation. [ ... and Jared his son. And Jared his son was sixth
 generation and Enoch] his son. Enoch was seven[th] generation...
 I Thou hast imparted Thy name as his inheritance to make Thy
 name dwel there... She Qerusalem?) is the glory of the territory of Thy
 land and on her [Thou] ... Thine eyes on her and Thy glory shal be seen
there for... to his seed for their generations an everlasting possession
 and al[l] ... Thy good judgements Thou hast purified him for... in
 everlasting light and Thou hast established him for Thee as a first-bor
 [n] son... like his, as a prince and ruler for al the territory of Thy land...
 [the] c[rown] of the heavens and the glory of the clouds Thou hast set
 [on him] ... and the angel of Thy peace in his congregation and...
 [given] him righteous rules like a father to his son... Thy soul clings to
 his love... for through them Thou [hast established] Thy glory
The Book of Enoch
 (4Q201-2, 204-12)
 Various Qumran caves have yielded for the first time the original
 Aramaic text of one of the major Pseudepigrapha, the Book of Enoch,
 which was previously known from a complete Ethiopic translation and
 from a Greek rendering of chapters I-XXXI and XCVI-CI, CVI-CVI, as
 wel as from a number of Greek quotations from chapters VI to xv
 transmitted by the Byzantine writer George Syncelus. Qumran Cave 4
 has yielded seven copies of the writing attested by, but not strictly
 identical to, the Ethiopic, and four further copies of the related Book of
 Giants, dependent on chapter VI of Enoch, fragments of which have
 been discovered also in 1Q and 6Q. Palaeographicaly, al of them are
 dated to between 200 BCE and the end of the pre-Christian era. The
 differences they display concern partly the structure of the work, e.g.
 the astronomical section is more developed in parts than the text from
 which the Ethiopic Enoch LXXI-LXXXI was made, while the Book of
 Parables (chaps. XXXVI-LXXI) with its Son of Man speculation is
 completely lacking at Qumran. There are also noticeable stylistic
 divergences which may be attributable more to the absence of a
 unified text of Enoch than to the work of the Ethiopic translator.
 The bulk of the fragments is too smal for translation. It would be
 wholy meaningless to render into English the retranslation into
 Aramaic of the Ethiopic and/or Greek text supplied by their editor, J. T.
 Milik, who has conjecturaly fi led the many gaps in the Qumran
 manuscripts. The passages included in this volume are those which
 make sense in themselves. The first excerpt (4Q201) supplies the
 Aramaic names of the twenty chiefs of the falen angels. The second
 (4Q204) relates the miraculous birth of Noah, which should be
 compared to the paralel accounts in the Genesis Apocryphon col. 11
 and in the fragments of the Book of Noah (1Q19, 4Q534). The third
and fourth extracts (4Q206) testify to a recension noticeably different
 from the corresponding Ethiopic version. The fifth (4Q209), the
 Astronomical Book, is - as has been noted - considerably longer than
 the Ethiopic. As for the Book of Giants, it is missing from the Ethiopic,
 though it circulated in Manichaean, Talmudic and medieval Jewish
 literature.
 For a preliminary edition, see J. T. Milik, The Books
 ofEnoch:Aramaic Fragments of Qumran Cave 4, Oxford, 1976. See
 also for 4Q201 2-8, 203 and 206 2-3, L. Stuckenbruck, DJD, XXXVI,
 3-48. For 4Q208-9, see E. J. C. Tigchelaar and F. García Martínez,
 DJD, XXXVI, 95-171. For the Ethiopic, see M. A. Knibb with the
 assistance of Edward Ulendorff, The Ethiopic Book of Enoch I-I,
 Oxford, 1978. For a general introduction, cf. HJP I, 250-68.
 4Q201 1=Ena (1En. vi, 7-v i, 1)
 I
 ... And these are [the names of their chiefs]. Shemihazah wh[o was
 their head, Arataqo]ph (cf. Enb), his second; Ramta[el, third] to him;
 Kokabe [l, fourth to him;... el, fif]th to him; Ramae[l, sixth to him;] Daniel,
 seve[nth to him; Ziqiel (cf. Ena,c), eigh]th to him; Baraqel, nin[th to him];
 Asael, tenth [to him; Hermoni (Enc), eleven]th to him; Matarel, twelf[th to
 him]; Ananel, thirteenth [to him]; Stawel, [fo]urteenth to him; Shamshi[el,
 fif]teenth to him; Shahriel, [s]ixteenth to him; Tummiel, seven[teenth to
 him]; Turiel, eighteenth to him; Yomiel, nine[teenth] to him; [Yehaddiel,
 twentieth to him.] These are the chiefs of the chiefs of tens. The[se and]
 their [ch]iefs [took for themselves] wives from al those whom they
 chose and [they began (Enb) to go in to them and defile themselves
 with them and to teach them sorcery and magic (Enb)] ... And they
 became pregnant by them and bo[re giants] ...
I
 4Q204=Enc (1En. cvi, 19-cv i, 2)
 ... [And af]ter [these sha l co]me a greater wicked[ness than that which
 wi l have been accomplished] in [their] d[ays. For] I know the mysteries
 [of the Lord which] the holy ones have explained and showed me and
 which I read [in] the heavenly [tablets]. And I saw written in them that
 one generation after another wi l do evil in this way, and evil wi l last
 [until] generations of righteousness [arise] and evil and wickedness
 shal end and violence shal cease from the earth and un[til good shal
 come on the earth] on them. vacat And now, please go to your [son],
 Lamech, [and explain to him] that this child is his son in truth and
 without lie...
 4Q206 I xxi (IEn. xx i, 3-7)
 ... [the soul] of a l the sons of man. And behold, these are the pits for
 their prison. They were made thus until the day of their judgement, until
 the final day of the great judgement which wil be imposed on them.
 vacat There I saw the spirit of a dead man complaining and his
 moaning rising to heaven and crying and complaining...
 4Q206 1 xxvi (1En. xxx i, 1-3)
 ... [And beyond] those [mountains] roughly northwards, on their eastern
 side, I was shown other mountains, [ful of] excelent [n]ard, and
 pepper-wort, and cinnamon, [and pe]pper. vacat And from there I was
 led [to the east of al those mountains, far from them, to the east of the
 earth and I was taken over the Red S[ea] and greatly distanced myself
 from it and crossed over the darkness far from it. And I passed to the
 Paradise of righteousness...

The Astronomical Book of Enoch 4Q209 7 (cf.
 1En. lxx i, I-lxxiv, 90)
 . I ... [And it (the moon) shines in the remainder of this night with three
 seventh (parts); and it grows during this day to four sevenths and a half;
 and then it sets and enters (its gate) and is covered for the remainder]
 of this day to [two] sevenths and a half. [And in the night of the twent]y
 fourth it is covered four sevenths and a half and [four sevenths and a
 half] are cut off from its light. [And th]en it comes out (from its gate) and
 shines in the remainder of this night two sevenths and a half. And it
 grows [in] this [d]ay five sevenths and then it sets and enters (its gate)
 and is covered for the remainder of this day [two] sev[enths. vacat And
 in the night, on the twenty-fifth, it is covered five sevenths, (and) five
 sevenths are cut off from its light. And then it comes out and shines for
 the remainder of this night two sevenths. And it grows in this day to five
 sevenths and a half. And then it sets [and] enters the second gate and
 is covered for the remainder of this day one seventh and a half. vacat
 And in the night of the twenty-sixth it is covered five sevenths and a half
 and five sevenths and a half are cut off from its light.
 And then it comes out of the second gate and shines for the
 remainder of this night one seventh and a half. And it grows in this day
 six sevenths. And then it sets and enters and is covered for the
 remainder of this day one seventh. vacat And in the night of the
 [twe]nty-seventh it is covered six sevenths and [six] sev[enths] are cut
 off from its light. [And then it comes out and shines for the remain]der
 of this night one seventh. And it grows in this day [six sevenths and a
 half. And then it sets and enters]
 …
 I [and shines in the night of the eight]h four [s]ev[enths]. And then it
 sets and enters. In this night the sun comple[tes] the passage through
 al the sections (?) of the first gate and recommences to go in and
 come out through its sections. [And then the moon] sets and enters.
And it darkens during the remainder of this night three sevenths. And it
 grows in this day four sevenths and [a half]. And then it comes out and
 dominates in the remainder of this day two sevenths and a h[al]f. vacat
 And it shines in the night of the ninth four [sevenths] and a half. And
 then it sets and enters. In this night the sun recommences to go through
 [its] section[s and to set] in them. And then [the mo]on sets and enters
 the fifth gate and darkens in the remainder of this night [two] sevenths
 and a half. And it grows in th[is] day five [sevenths] and in it the ligh[t]
 equals five sevenths... equals in ful. [And then it comes out] of the
 [f]if[th] gate...
The Book of Giants
 (1Q23-4, 2Q26, 4Q203, 530-33, 6Q8)
 The Book of Giants is missing from the Ethiopic version of Enoch, but
 it circulated among the Manichaeans (W. B. Henning, ‘The Book of
 Giants’, Bu letin of the School of Oriental and African Studies 11,
 1943-46, 52-74) as wel as in Talmudic and medieval Jewish literature
 (bNid. 61a and Midrash Shemhazai and Azael), as has been
 convincingly shown by J. T. Milik in his learned book, The Books of
 Enoch: Aramaic Fragments of Qumran Cave 4(Oxford, 1976, 298
339). Some of the features resemble the Book of Daniel.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q530-33, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 9
115.
 4Q530
 Frs. 2, 6-12
 I ... about the death of our soul. And al his coleagues entered and
 [O]hiyah explained them what Gilgamesh had told him and H[o]babis
 roared and [j]udgement was pronounced on him. And the guilty cursed
 the princes, but the giants rejoiced over him and he was curs[ed] again
 [and accep]ted it. Then two of them dreamed dreams and the sleep of
 their eyes fled from them... and they ro[se and op]ened their eyes and
 they went to [Shemihaza, their father. Then] he told a story in the
 congregation of [their co]leagues, the Nephilin: ... I saw [a wonder] in
 my dream that night. [Behold a big garden was planted with al kinds of
 trees.] There were there gardeners and they were watering [ev]ery tree
 in [that] garden... Many [roo]ts grew out of their stock. [And out of one
 tree grew] three shoots. I was looking until tongues of fire [came down]
from [heaven]. I was [looking] until the ... was covered with al the water
 and the fire devoured al [the trees] of the whole orchard. But it did not
 [devour the tree and its shoots on] the land whe[n it was destroyed] ...
 Here is the end of the dream... [And] the giants were unable to explain
 [the] dre[am]. [And he said...] You wi l give this [dr]eam [to Eno]ch, the
 interpreter scribe, that he might interpret to us the dream. vacat Then
 Ohiyah, his brother, answered and said before the giants, I, too, saw a
 wonder in my dream this night. Behold the Ruler of heaven descended
 to earth and thrones were set and the great Holy One sat. [Hundreds
 and hundred]s were ministering to Him. Thousands and thousands...
 stood b[e]fore Him. And behold, [boo]ks were opened and judgement
 was pronounced and the judgement... [was writ]ten and a signature
 was signed. And [the Great one reigns] over al the living and flesh and
 over [al those who ru]le. Here is the end of the dream. vacat [And
 behold] al the giants were terrified [and] c[al]led Mahawai and he
 came to the co[ng]regation of [the Nephilin(?)] And the giants sent him
 to Enoch... and said to him, Go [to him...] previously you listened to his
 voice and say to him that he should expl[ain to you the inter[pretation of
 the dreams and that al should rest [w]ith those who hunger strongly
 after it
 4Q531
 Fr. 22
 ...[I showed myself] mighty and by the power of my strong arm and by
 the vigour of my might [I rose against a]l flesh and made war on them.
 But I ... not... [fi]nd ... to strengthen (me), for my adversaries, [the angels
 of heave]n dwel [in heave]n and they abide in the holy places and [I
 wi l] not... [for the]y are more powerful than I. vacat ... of wild beasts
 came and the country people cried... And Ohiyah spoke to him thus.
 My dream has depressed [me] and [the sl]eep of my eyes [fled from
 me] for looking at the [vis]ion. Behold I know that I cannot sleep and
 cannot hasten for them... [Then Gil]gamesh said, Your [dr]eam...
An Admonition Associated with the Flood
 (4Q370, 4Q185)
 4Q370 is a rewritten account of the Noah story based on Genesis vi-ix;
 two fragmentary columns have survived, only the first of which is
 suitable for translation. Palaeographicaly, it is said to be late
 Hasmonaean, i.e. from the first half of the first century BCE, but the
 composition itself is pre-Qumran. Both the Tetragram and the divine
 name ‘el are used. The badly damaged column 11 switches from
 narrative to ethics and exhortation. Part of it can be reconstructed with
 the help of 4Q185.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q370, see Carol A. Newsom, DJD, XIX,
 85-97.
 4Q370 (4Q185)
 I [And] He crowned the mountains with pro[duce] and poured food on
 them, and he satisfied every soul with good fruit. ‘Whoever does my
 wi l, let him eat and be satisfied’, says [the Lo]rd. ‘And let them bless
 [my holy] name. But, behold, they have done what is wicked in my
 eyes,’ said the Lord. They rebeled (?) against God through their
 ac[tio]ns, and the Lord judged them according to al their ways, and
 according to the thoughts of the inclination of their [evil] hearts. And He
 thundered at them in [His] power, and al the foundations of the earth
 [tr]embled, [and the wa]ters burst forth from the abysses. Al the
 windows of heaven opened, and al the abyss[es] overflowed [with]
 mighty waters. And the windows of heaven [emptied out] rain and He
 destroyed them by the Flood... Therefore everything [perished] on the
 dry land; and men, beasts, birds and winged creatures [died]. And the
g[iant]s did not escape
 ... And God made [a sign... and] set His bow [in the cloud] that He
 might remember the covenant... [that there might no more be on earth]
 waters of flood... and that the mass of waters [might not be let loo]se...
 I (combined with 4Q185) ... their wickedness when they know (how to
 distinguish) bet[ween good and evil... For behold], they sprout forth
 [like grass], but a shadow are their days o[n the earth. And now pray
 hearken to me, my people; heed me, O you Simple for from
 everlasting] to everlasting he wi l have mercy... the might of the Lord.
 Remember the mira[cles which he did in Egypt and his marvels in the
 land of Ham. Let your heart shake] because of fear of him, and [your]
 soul wi l rejoice according to his good graces...
The Ages of the Creation
 (4Q180)
 A badly worn manuscript from Cave 4(4Q180) has been published
 under this title by J. M. Alegro. Its decipherment and interpretation
 have been further improved by J. Strugnel and J. T. Milik. The only
 section yielding coherent sense deals with the myth of the falen angels
 and the daughters of men, which is based on Genesis vi, 1-4, and fuly
 developed in 1 Enoch. If Milik’s reconstruction is correct, the work
 presents human history as divided into seventy weeks of years (70 x 7
 years), the first ten of which cover the period from Noah to Abraham.
 The manuscript is claimed by Strugnel to belong to the first century
 CE.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, DJD,
 V, 77-9; cf. J. Strugnel, RQ 7 (1970,) 252-4;J. T. Milik, JJS 23 (1972),
 110-24.
 Interpretation concerning the ages made by God, al the ages for the
 accomplishment [of al the events, past] and future. Before ever He
 created them, He determined the works of ... age by age. And it was
 engraved on [heavenly] tablets... the ages of their domination. This is
 the order of the cre[ation of man from Noah to Abraham, un]til he begot
 Isaac; ten [weeks (of years)].
 And the interpretation concerns Azazel and the angels who [came to
 the daughters of men; and] they bore to them giants. And concerning
 Azazel ... and iniquity, and to cause them al to inherit wickedness...
 judgements and judgement of the congregation.
The Book of Noah
 (1Q19, 1Q19 bis, 4Q534-6, 6Q8,19)
 Several groups of smal fragments from Qumran Caves 1, 4 and 6
 appear to be the relics of a Book of Noah mentioned in Jubilees x, 13
 and xxi, 10 and reproduced in an abbreviated form in Aramaic in the
 Genesis Apocryphon 11ff. and in Enoch CVI (cf. J. T. Milik, DJD, I, 84
6; 152; DJD, I, 116-19, 136). 1Q19 and 19bis are remains of a
 Hebrew version; 6Q8 and 19 belong to an Aramaic Noah narrative.
 1Q19, 6Q8 and 1QapGen deal with the miraculous birth of Noah, as
 does also 4Q534, which was originaly understood by scholars as
 describing the birth of the Royal Messiah (cf. p. 370 above). In 1Q19 fr.
 1 the subject is the miserable state of mankind before the Flood; frs. 3
 and 13-14 (as wel as 6Q8) alude to the birth of Noah, accompanied
 by miraculous signs.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q534-6, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 117
70.
 1Q19, fr. 3
 ... [to] his father. And when Lamech (Noah’s father) saw the ... [the child
 made] the rooms of the house [shine] like the rays of the sun ... to
 frighten the ...
 Frs. 13-14
 ... for the glory of your splendour ... for the glory of God... [wi l be] lifted
in glorious majesty... wi l be glorified amidst [the sons of h]eaven and ...
 4Q534
 I ... of his hand: his two kn[ee]s. [And on his head] on his hair a birth
mark of reddish colour. And the shape of a lentil (wi l be) on [his face?],
 and smal birthmarks on his thigh. [And after t]wo years he wil know
 (how to distinguish) one thing from another in his heart. In his youth, he
 wi l be like... [like a m]an who knows nothing until the time when he
 knows the three Books. And then he wil acquire prudence and learn
 und[erstanding] ... w[ise] seers come to him, to his knees. And with his
 father and his ancestors... of brothers wi l hurt him. Counsel and
 prudence wi l be with him, and he wil know the secrets of man. His
 wisdom wil reach al the peoples, and he wil know the secrets of al
 the living. And al their designs against him wi l come to nothing, and
 (his) rule over a l the living wi l be great. His designs [wi l succeed], for
 he is the Elect of God. His birth and the breath of his spirit... and his
 designs shal be for ever...
 4Q536 (4Q534, fr. 7)
 ... Blessed be every m[an who teaches his sons the doctrine of
 wisdom]. For he wil not die in the days of wickedness. Woe to you, O
 fool, for your mouth wi l deceive you by ... (incurring) the death penalty.
 Who wil write these words of mine in a book that wil not decay, and
 keep this word of mine [in a scrol (?) which wil not] fade away?
 Behold ... and the pleasure of the wicked wi l cease for ever...
Words of the Archangel Michael
 (4Q529, 6Q23)
 In this poorly preserved Aramaic fragment the speaker, Michael,
 addresses the angels in general and the archangel Gabriel in line 4
 about a vision. The subject is unclear, but since he refers to the sons of
 Noah, Shem and Ham, and to the construction of a city filed with
 wickedness, it is possible that the author aludes to the building of the
 tower of Babel. If there are two mountains in each direction (east, west,
 north, south), the ninth indicated in the text must be special: Zion or
 Sinai?
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 1-8.
 Fr. 1
 Words of the book which Michael addressed to the angels... He said: I
 found there divisions of fire ... [and I saw there] nine mountains: two to
 the eas[t, and two to the west, and two to the north and two to the
 so]uth. I saw there the angel Gabriel... like a vision. [Then] I showed
 him the vision. And he said to me: ... in the books of my Master, the
 Lord of the world, it is written: Behold, ... [between] the sons of Ham
 and the sons of Shem. And behold my Master, the Lord of the world...
 when they ... the tear from... And behold a city was built to the name of
 my Master, [the Lord of the world, and there] everything that is evil wi l
 be done before my Master, the Lor[d of the world] ... And my Master,
 the Lord of the world, wi l remember his creation... [and] my Master, the
 Lord of the world, [wi l be] merciful to him and to him... the man wi l be
 in the faraway province... he, and he wi l say to him: Behold this... for
 me silver and gold... And he wi l say: ... [and] the righteous man...
The Testament of Levi (i)
 (4Q213-114, 1Q21)
 Among the numerous smal fragments representing the Aramaic
 Testament of Levi from Cave 4, al dating to the mid-first century BCE,
 a damaged portion of two columns of 4Q213a contains parts of a
 prayer of Levi. As the best part of the same text survives also in Greek
 in a manuscript from Mt Athos (Monastery of Koutloumous, Codex 39,
 dating to the eleventh century), it is possible to complete most of the
 missing sections of this prayer. Other smal Aramaic fragments of the
 Testament of Levi, mentioning among other matters the ‘kingdom of
 the high priesthood’, are listed under 1Q21 (cf. J. T. Milik, DJD, I, 87
91).
 For the editio princeps, see M. E. Stone and J. C. Greenfield, DJD,
 XXI, 1-71. For the Testament of Levi in the Testaments of the Twelve
 Patriarchs, see HJP I, 767-81.
 4Q213a
 I [Then] I raised [my eyes and face] towards heaven [and opened my
 mouth and spoke. And I stretched out] the fingers of my hands and my
 hands... for truth towards the holy ones and I prayed and said, Lord,
 Thou [knowest every heart, and T]hou alone knowest al the thoughts of
 [the heart. And now my sons are with me. Give me al] the paths of
 truth, and distance [from me, O Lord, the evil spirit and the evil]
 inclination and fornication and repulse [pride from me. And give me
 counsel, and w]isdom and knowledge and might [so as to do that
 which pleases Thee] and find favour before Thee [and give thanks for
 Thy dealings with me, O Lord, in order to do] that which is splendid and
good before Thee. [And let n]o adversary have dominion over me [to
 lead me astray from Thy way. And be merciful t]o me, O Lord, and
 draw me near that I may be Thy I [servant and minister wel to Thee] ...
 [Thou], O Lord, [hast blessed Abraham my father and Sarah my
 mother and Thou didst say that Thou wouldst give them] a righ[teous]
 seed [which would be blessed for ever. Listen therefore to] the prayer
 of [Thy] ser[vant Le]vi ... [to practise] righteous judgement for a[l
 eternity] ... [And do not remove] the son of Thy servant from be[fore
 Thee]
 ... Then I went along... to my father Jacob. And when... from Abel
Mayin. Then I lay down and dweled ...
 4Q213 (completed from the Cairo Geniza)
 Fr. 1 i
 ... [And] I [instruct you, my sons, and I wi l show to you, my loved ones,
 the truth.] The chief of a l your deeds shal be [truth, and it shal be with
 you for ever.] Righteousness and truth... you wi l bring in a blessed
 harvest. He who sows good wil bring in good, and he who sows evil,
 his sowing wil turn against him. And now teach your sons letters,
 doctrine and wisdom, and wisdom wil be with you for everlasting
 honour. He who studies wisdom wil be honoured, but he who despises
 wisdom wil be turned into scorn and disdain. My sons, look at Joseph,
 my brother, who has studied letters and wise doctrine for glory and
 greatness and for kings... Do not be remiss in the study of wisdom...
 Everyone who studies wisdom ... To every land and province to which
 he goes as a brother... and he is not like a stranger, nor as a ... al wi l
 grant him honour on its account because al wish to learn wisdom.
 Those who love him are many and His wel-wishers are great in
 number. They wi l make him sit on a throne of honour to hear his words
 of wisdom. Wisdom is great wealth of honour for those who know it,
 and a good treasure for those who buy it. If powerful kings come and a
 big crowd [and horsemen and many chariots wil be with them, they wil
carry away the wealth of a country and of a province, and plunder
 everything in them, they wi l not plunder the treasuries of wisdom, and
 wi l not find] ...
 4Q213b
 [The seven departed from me] and I woke up from my sleep. Then [I
 said, ‘This is a vision and I am so amazed that I should have any
 vision.’
 And] I [concealed] this also in my heart [and disclosed it] to no man.
 And we went to my father, Isaac, and he too blessed me thus. Then
 Jacob, my father, tithed al that he had in conformity with his vow and I
 was the first at the head [of the priesthood] and to me, one of his sons,
 he gave a gift ... to God, and he clothed me with the garment of the
 priesthood and he ordained me, and I became a priest of the
 everlasting God...
 4Q214 fr. 2
 [To sprink]le [blood on the wals of the altar. And again wash your
 hands and] your [f]eet of [the blood and start offering the salted parts.
 Offer] fi[rst the head and cover it with the fa]t and let not [the blood of
 the sacrificed bul] be seen [on it. And afterwards] the [neck] and
 afterwards the forelegs [and afterwards the breast with the sides, and
 after]wards the thighs and the spine [of the loin. And after the thighs the
 washed hind legs] with the intestines. And they al [wi l be salted with
 salt as they should. And] after that fine flour is to be mixed with oil [and]
 after al this [pour out] wine [and burn incense over them and] your
 action should fo low the ru[le].
4Q214a, fr. 1
 ... These a[re what he said to me to be fit for offering below the burnt
 offering] on the altar. And wh[en you have made an offering from these
 trees on the altar and the fire has started] to [be kindled] ...
 Frs. 2-3 i 3-6
 [The fortieth year of my life she bore in the seventh/fou]rth [month. And I
 was again with her and she conceived and bore me a daughte]r and I
 gave her the name of Jochebed. I sai[d, ‘She is born to me for the
 honour of Israel.’] In the sixty-fourth year of my life she was born on the
 first (day) of the seventh [month].
 4Q214b, frs. 2-6
 ... s[p]lit [woo]d, [and first examine it for worms and the]n [offer it, for]
 thus did I see Abraham, [my father, taking care]. He s[ai]d to me [that
 any of the twel]ve (kinds of) trees [is fit for] offering on the altar, [the
 fragrance of whose smoke] goes up. And these are [their] names: [the
 cedar, the juni]per, the almond tree, [the fir, the pine, the ash,] the
 cypress, the ..., the olive tree, the laurel, the myrtle and the ... These are
 (the trees) which he [said to me that they are fit to offer] below the burnt
 offerings [on the altar. And when you have offered any of] these [trees]
 on the altar [and the fire has started to burn them, then you wi l start to
 sprinkle the blood] on the wals of the altar. And again [you wi l wash
 your hands and feet of the blood and start to offer] the sa[lte]d [l]im[bs].
 The he[ad] ...
Testaments of the Patriarchs: the Testament of
 Levi or Testament of Jacob
 (4Q537 and 540-41)
 An Aramaic work of which numerous fragments are extant in Cave 4
 resembles the Testament of Levi from among the Testaments of the
 Twelve Patriarchs. The central figure is Levi, but the testament is
 probably that of his father, Jacob. Hence 4Q537 is referred to also as
 the Jacob Apocryphon. Palaeographicaly its proposed date is the end
 of the second century BCE. Both 4Q537 and 541 alude to an
 eschatological priestly figure (recaling the pseudepigraphic
 Testament of Levi XVI-XV I) whose mission encounters opposition
 due to the wickedness of the men of his generation. 4Q537 probably
 represents Jacob’s dream at Bethel. The three fragments of 4Q540
 are very truncated and provide no basis for meaningful translation.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 171-90 and 225
56.
 4Q537 Fr. 12
 ... and how wi l be the buildin[g] ... [and how wi l the prie]sts be dressed
 and [their hands] be purified, and how wi l [they] offer sacrifices on the
 altar, and ho[w on the who]le earth wil they always eat part of their
 sacrifices [and how they shal drink the water] which wi l come out of
 the city under the wals...
 4Q541, fr. 9
I... and he wi l pass on [to them (his sons) his w]isdom. He wi l atone for
 al the sons of his generation and wil be sent to al the sons of his
 [peo]ple. His word is like a word of heaven, and his teaching is
 according to the wi l of God. His eternal sun wi l shine, and his fire wi l
 spring forth to al the ends of the earth, and wi l shine over darkness.
 The darkness wil pass away [fr]om the earth, and deep darkness from
 the dry land. They wi l utter many words against him and many [ ... ]s.
 They wil invent stories about him, and wil utter everything
 dishonourable against him. Evil wi l overturn his generation [because...
 ] wi l be, and because lies and violence wi l (fi l) his existence, and the
 people wi l go astray in his days and wi l become perplexed.
 4Q541, fr. 24 i
 ... Do [n]ot mourn in sackcloth... and do not... redeemed whether they
 are hid[den] fault[s] or revealed faults and... Search and seek and
 know what is sought by the dove and do not smite one who is
 exhausted with consumption and troubles ... And you wil make a
 joyous name for your father and a tried foundation for your brothers.
 And you wil see and rejoice in the everlasting light and you wi l not be
 from among the enemies. vacat
The Testament of Judah and Joseph
 (4Q538-9)
 Four smal fragments of an Aramaic work (4Q538) were first
 recognized as belonging to the Testament of Judah by J. T. Milik
 (‘Ecrits préesséniens de Qumrân: d’Hénoch à Amram’, in Qumrân. Sa
 piété, sa théologie et son milieu, ed. M. Delcor (1976), 91-106). The
 script belongs to mid-first century BCE. The five fragments of the
 Testament of Joseph (4Q539) are too smal for translation. However,
 the alusion to ‘my uncle Ishmael’ (fr. 3) whose children acquired
 Joseph as a slave, and to the minister of Pharaoh, Pentephres, the
 Greek form of Potiphar (fr. 4), who bought Joseph from the
 Ishmaelites, seem to confirm Milik’s identification of the document.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 191-2 11.
 Frs. 1-2
 ... if there is in their heart [an evil spirit] towards me (Joseph). vacat
 When I... and they came [to me,] they al [brou]ght to me the bags... and
 [they fe l to the ground] before Joseph and revered [him]. He then knew
 that there was no evil [sp]irit [in their heart] and he could no longer...
 (suspect them) ... and he could no longer... And he presented his
 brothers [with] a big [mea]l ... on my (Judah’s) shoulder (litera ly: neck)
 and embraced me ...
The Testament of Naphtali
 (4Q215)
 Two reasonably intact fragments, dating to the turn of the era,
 represent the Hebrew text of the Testament of Naphtali, with
 occasional similarities to the version which survives in Greek. Fr. 1
 partly overlaps with TNaphtali 1, 9, 11-12, without being identical with
 it. Fr. 2 depicts the blessedness of the end of time and may belong to
 a separate sectarian document.
 For the editio princeps, see M. E. Stone, DJD, XXI, 73-82.
 Fr. 1
 ... with the sisters(?) of (or: with Ahiyot,) the father of Bilhah, ...
 Deborah, who suckled Reb[eccah] ... And he went into captivity and
 Laban sent out and rescued him and gave him Hannah, one of [his]
 maidservants. [And she conceived and bore] a first [daughter], Zilphah,
 and gave her the name Zilphah after the name of the town whe[re] he
 was taken into captivity. She conceived and bore Bilhah, my mother,
 and Hannah caled her name Bilhah, for when she was born, [she was
 in] a hurry to suck. And she said, ‘What? Is my daughter in a hurry?’
 And she caled her again Bilhah. vacat When my father Jacob came to
 Laban, fleeing from Esau, his brother, and after... the father of Bilhah
 my mother. And Laban led Hannah, the mother of my mother and her
 two daughters, [and he gave one to Lea]h and one to Rachel. And
 when it came to pass that Rachel did not bear sons, ... [Jaco]b my
 father, and he gave him Bilhah my mother and she bore Dan [my]
 brother...
Narrative and Poetic Compositiona—c (formerly
 ‘A Joseph Apocryphon’)
 (4Q371-3)
 4Q371-3 form a very fragmentary Hebrew narrative relating to the
 period of the Patriarchs and Moses. Palaeographicaly they are dated
 to the second half of the first century BCE. 4Q372 appears to be the
 relic of an anti-Samaritan polemical work, antedating the destruction of
 the Temple on Mount Gerizim under John Hyrcanus I (134-104 BCE).
 No sectarian features are apparent in this writing. It should be noted
 that the joint reference to the tribes of Levi, Judah and Benjamin (line
 14) is paraleled in 1QM 1, 2. 4Q373, paralel to 2Q22, describes the
 battle between a Jewish hero, possibly Moses, and the giant Og, king
 of Bashan (cf. Num. xxi, 21—35). The model of the story is the duel
 between David and Goliath.
 For the editio princeps, see Eileen Schuler and M. Bernstein, DJD,
 XXV I, 155-204.
 4Q372, fr. 1 (40371-2)
 ... and the pagan priests and the worshippers of [idols] ... the Most
 High and He handed them over to the nations ... [and He dispersed]
 them in al the lands and among al [the nations] and He disseminated
 them ... and they did not come ... Israel. And He destroyed them from
 the land ... and the nations did not leave for them a tent-peg standing in
 the Valey of Vision ... [and they turned] Jerusalem into ruins and the
 Mountain of my God into high places of fore[st] ... the precepts of God.
 Judah was also with him and he stood at the crossroads to ... to be
together with his two brothers. And for al this, Joseph was thrown to
 un[known] lands, to a strange nation and they (the northern Israelites)
 were dispersed in the whole world. Al their mountains were deserted
 without them ... and fools resided in their land. They made for
 themselves a high place on an elevated mountain to excite the jealousy
 of Israel. They spoke wor[ds of ... ] of the sons of Jacob and caused
 disgust with the words of their mouth, blaspheming against the Tent of
 Zion. They spoke [words of falsehood and al the] words of lies to
 enrage Levi, Judah and Benjamin by their words. And for al this,
 Joseph [was put] into the hands of strangers to consume his strength
 and break al his bones until the time of his end. And he cried ... and
 caled on the mighty God that He should save him from their hands. He
 said, ‘My Father and my God, do not abandon me to the hands of the
 nations. Execute judgement for me so that the humble and the poor
 may not perish. Thou hast no need of any nation or people to help
 Thee. [Thy] fing[er] is greater and more powerful than anything in the
 world. For Thou optest for the truth, and in Thy hand there is no
 violence whatever. Also Thy mercies are many and Thy loving
kindness is great for al those who seek Thee. [They took] my land from
 me and from al my brothers who have joined me. A nation of enemies
 resides on it ... and they opened their mouth with anger against al the
 sons of Jacob, Thy friend, ... at the time when Thou wilt destroy them
 from the whole world and they wil give ... I wi l rise to enact judgement
 and righ[teousness] ... [to do] the wi l of my Creator and to offer
 sacrifices ... my God. I wi l proclaim [Thy] merci[es] ... I wi l praise Thee,
 O Lord, my God, and I wil bl[e]ss Thee ... the first things and to teach
 Thy precepts to the sinners, and to al who have forsaken [Thy] Law....
 and evil so that Thy testimonies wi l not rebuke me and to proclaim
 [Thy] righteousness ... For Thou art a great, holy, mighty, powerful,
 awe-inspiring and wonderful God ... [the heaven] and the earth and
 even in the depth of the ocean majesty and ... I know and I have
 understood and ...’
 Fr. 3
a heart teaching understanding, a mouth [procla]iming
 judgement.
 For my words are [sweeter] than honey and surpass wine.
 [My] tongu[e] is truth and al the words of my mouth are
 righteousness.
 Their testimonies shal not destroy and their portions shal not
 perish.
 For al of them ...
 The Lord has opened my mouth 
and the words of my tongue are from Him 
and they speak to me to proclaim ... 
... His mercies. 
He wil not give His precepts to another nation, 
nor wi l He crown every stranger, 
for ... [bet]ween them 
(the covenant) which He made with Jacob, 
that they should be His people for al eternity. 
... [visiting] destruction [on I]srael 
to exterminate them by the hand of the nations. 
Al the plagues in the inheritan[ce of] ... 
and He wil seek their blood from their hands. 
See what He did to Midian, 
... one - he was Zimri the son of Salu (Num. xxv, 14)—
 and the five kings of Midian were ki led ...
 4Q373, (2Q22 i 1—4; 4Q373, fr. 19 1—4)
 ... a l his servants. Og ...
 His height was ... cubits and a half and two [cubits was his width ...]
 the spear like a cedar tree ... the shield like a tower ... Sweet footed ...
 seven stadia distant. He did not stand ... And I did not repeat for the
 Lord, our God, smashed him and with [the sword] ... and I made slings
 to wound ... for war to take strongholds and to shock ...
The Testament of Qahat
 (4Q542)
 The Testament of Qahat is an Aramaic work of which two columns,
 one complete and one damaged, have survived. It is a typical example
 of moralizing death-bed literature, similar to the Testaments of the
 Twelve Patriarchs, but characterized, like the Testaments of Levi and
 Amram, by its priestly perspective. The script has been
 palaeographicaly dated to the end of the second century BCE, but the
 carbon 14 test, performed in 1990, places it considerably earlier,
 possibly to 388—353 BCE, or more probably to 303—235 BCE. It is
 not a sectarian composition. Only the undamaged part of the text is
 translated here.
 Two further smal fragments have survived without providing anything
 continuous and meaningful. Fr. 2 aludes to darkness and light, and fr.
 3 mentions precious stones extant in large numbers apparently on
 account of zenuta (fornication, whoredom).
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 257—82.
 ... I and the God of gods for al eternity. And He wil shine light on you
 and wil let you know His great Name. And you wil know Him, that He
 is the God of eternity, and the Lord of al the deeds, and the Ruler of al,
 dealing with them according to His good pleasure. And He wil make
 for you rejoicing and for your sons joy for the generations of truth, for
 ever. Now, my sons, be careful with the heritage that is handed over to
 you, which your fathers have given you. Do not give your heritage to
 strangers, and your inheritance to knaves so that you become
 humiliated and foolish in their eyes and they despise you, for, although
 sojourners among you, they wi l be your chiefs. So hold to the word of
 Jacob, your father, and seize the laws of Abraham and the
 righteousness of Levi and mine. And be holy and pure of al fornication
in the community. And hold the truth and walk straight, and not with a
 double heart, but with a pure heart and a true and good spirit. And you
 wi l give me a good name among you, and a rejoicing to Levi, and joy
 to Jacob, delight to Isaac, and glory to Abraham, because you wil
 keep and walk (in) the herit[age] which your fathers wi l have left you:
 truth and righteousness and uprightness and perfection and pur[ity and
 ho]liness and the priesthood according to al that you have been
 commanded (?), and according to al that I I wi l have taught you in truth
 from now until al [the age] ... every word of truth wi l come upon yo[u ...]
 eternal blessing wi l reside on you and wi l be [come for you] ... stay for
 al the eternal generations and wi l no more ... from your correction and
 you wil establish yourselves to pronounce judgement ov[er ... ] and to
 see the faults of al the sinners of the ages ... [to be cast] into the fire
 and the oceans and into al the cavities for ... in the generations of truth.
 And al the sons of wickedne[ss ... ] And now Amram, my son, [I]
 instruct you ... and your sons to their sons. I instruct [you ... ] and they
 have given to Levi my father, and Levi my father g[ave (it/them)] to me
 ... a l my books in testimony that through them you should beware ...
 [and that there should be] for you through them much merit when you
 walk in conformity with them. vacat
The Testament of Amram
 (4Q543-9)
 An Aramaic document surviving in five or six (?) fragmentary copies
 from Cave 4 contains an admonition by Amram, the father of Moses, to
 his children. The context is that of the Book of Exodus, but the visions
 and teachings are the author’s free compositions. Amram’s age at his
 death (137 years) is borrowed from Exod. vi, 20, but its dating to the
 152nd year of the captivity reflects the tradition according to which the
 Israelites remained in Egypt, not for 430 years (Exod. xii, 40), nor 400
 years (Gen. xv, 13), but 210 years. Cf. J. Heinemann,
 ‘210 Years of Egyptian Exile’, JJS 22 (1971), 19—30. The dating of
 the script varies between the second half of the second century BCE
 (4Q543, 544, 547), the first half of the first century BCE (4Q545, 546)
 and the second half of the first century BCE (4Q548, 549).
 In the gravely damaged text of a vision, Amram sees the chief Angel
 of Darkness, Melkiresha‘, already mentioned (pp. 394—5). He also
 addresses the leader of the Army of Light, whose name has
 disappeared in one of the many lacunae. But is is highly probable that
 one of his ’three names’ is Melchizedek (see pp. 532—4).
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXI, 283—405.
 4Q543, fr. 1 (4Q545, 546)
 I Copy of the book of the words of the vision of Amram, son of Kehat,
 son of Levi, al[1 that] he explained to his sons and enjoined on them on
 the day of [his] death, in his one-hundred-and-thirty-seventh year, which
 was the year of his death, [in] the one-hundred-and-fifty-second year of
 Israel’s exile in Egypt ... to cal Uzziel, his youngest brother, and he
ma[rried] to him Miriam, [his] daughter, and said (to her), ‘You are thirty
 years old.’ And he gave a banquet lasting seven days. And he ate and
 drank and made merry during the banquet. Then, when the days of the
 banquet were completed, he sent to cal Aaron, his son, and he was
 about twenty years old and said to him, ‘Cal, my son, the messengers,
 your brothers from the house of ...’
 4Q544, fr. 1 (4Q543, 545—7)
 Qahat (went) there to stay and dwel and build ... many of the sons of
 my uncle together ... a man as our work was very great until the dead
 would be buried. vacat In the year of my beginning, when the news of a
 war became worrying, with my consent our company returned to the
 land of Egypt and I went to bury them and they did not build the tombs
 of our fathers. And my father Qahat and my wife Jochebed left me to
 stand and build and provide them with al their needs from the land of
 Canaan. And we stayed in Hebron while we were building. vacat A war
 broke out between the Philistines and the Egyptians and the
 Philistines and Canaanites defeated the Egyptians and they closed
 the fr[ontiers] of Egypt. And it was impossible [for Jochebed, my wife,
 to go from Egypt to Canaan] for forty-one years. And we could not
 return to Egypt. Therefore [we could] not ... [the war] between Egypt
 and Canaan and the Philistines. And during al this, [Jochebed] my
 wi[fe, was away from me in the land of Egypt ... my post ... for] she was
 [not] with me. And I did [not] take ano[ther] wife. vacat Women... al,
 that I would return to Egypt in peace and would see the face of my wife.
 [I saw Watchers] in my vision, a dream vision vacat And behold two (of
 them) argued about me and said ... and they were engaged in a great
 quarrel concerning me. I asked them: ‘You, what are you ... thus ...
 [about me?’] They answered and [said to me: ‘We have been made
 m]asters and rule over al the sons of men.’ And they said to me:
 ‘Which of us do you [choose ...’]
 I raised my eyes and saw one of them. His looks were frightening
 [like those of a vi]per, and his [ga]rm[en]ts were multi-coloured and he
was extremely dark ...
 And afterwards I looked and behold ... by his appearance and his
 face was like that of an adder, and he was covered with ... together,
 and over his eyes ...
 Fr. 2
 ... this [Watcher]: ‘Who is he?’ He said to me: ‘This Wa[tcher] ... [and
 his three names are Belial, Prince of Darkness] and Melkiresha’.‘
 vacat And I said: ‘My Lord, what ru[le] ...’ [And he said to me] ... [and al
 his paths are dark]ness, and al his work is darkness, and he is ... in
 darkness ... you see. And he rules over al darkness ... and I rule over
 al light and al[1] ...
 4Q545 (4Q543a, 546d)
 Fr. ia i
 I Cop[y of the writing of the words of visio]n of Amram, son of Qahat,
 son of Levi, al[1] that [he has explained to his] sons ... on the day of
 [his] death in the year one hundred and thirty-six - this is the year of his
 death - in the year one hundred and fifty-two of the exile of [I]srael in
 Egypt. Also it came to him ... and cal Uzziel, his younger brother, [and
 gav]e him Mir[i]am, his thirty-year-old daughter for wife. He made her
 wedding feast last seven [day]s and he ate and drank at her wedding
 feast and rejoiced. Then, when the [d]ays of the wedding feast came to
 an end, he sent out to cal Aaron, his about t[wenty]-year-old son, [and
 said] to him, ‘My son, cal to me the messengers, your brothers, from
 the house of ...’
 Fr. 4
VI ... and I wi l explain to you your name[s] ... [that] he wrote for Moses.
 And also about A[aron] ... I wil explain to you the mystery of his
 worshipping. He is a holy priest [to the Most High God. Also] al his
 seed wil be holy in al the generations of e[ternity] ... The seventh of the
 men of (God’s) good wil [he wil be] caled and he wil be said ... and
 wi l be chosen as a priest for ever ... vacat
 4Q548
 ... I an[nou]nce to you [the] firm [pat]h. I wi l indeed inform y[ou ... For a l
 the Sons of Light] wil shine, [and al the Sons] of Darkness wil be
 dark. [For al the Sons of Light] ... and by al their knowledge they wi l ...
 and the Sons of Darkness wil be ... And the Sons of Darkness wil be
 removed ... For every fool and wick[ed wi l be dar]k and every [sag]e
 and upright wi l shine. [For al the Sons of Light wi l g]o to the light, to ...
 and al the Sons of Dar[kness go towards death] and perdition ... The
 people shal have brightness ... and they wi l explain to th[em] ...
The Words of Moses
 (1Q22)
 Fragments of four very mutilated columns of a manuscript from Cave I
 have been skilfuly reconstructed by J. T. Milik. They form a farewel
 discourse of Moses which takes its inspiration from various passages
 of Deuteronomy and is chiefly remarkable for the emphasis laid on the
 appointment of special teachers, or interpreters, of the Law (Levites
 and Priests). The last two columns are so mutilated as to be
 untranslatable. Another document, consisting of two insignificant
 fragments, tentatively entitled ‘A Moses Apocryphon’ (2Q21) and
 including a prayer attributed to Moses, has been published by J. T.
 Milik (DJD, I, 79-81).
 For the editio princeps, see J. T. Milik, DYD, I, 91—7.
 I [God spoke] to Moses in the [fortieth] year after [the children of] Israel
 had come [out of the land of] Egypt, in the eleventh month, on the first
 day of the month, saying:
 ‘[Gather together] a l the congregation and go up to [Mount Nebo]
 and stand [there], you and Eleazar son of Aaron. Inter[pret to the
 heads] of family of the Levites and to al the [Priests], and proclaim to
 the children of Israel the words of the law which I proclaimed [to you] on
 Mount Sinai. Proclaim care[fuly] into their ears al that I [require] of
 them. And [cal] heaven and [earth to witness against] them; for they wi l
 not love what I have commanded [them to do], neither [they] nor their
 children, [during a l] the days they sha l [live upon the earth].
 [For] I say that they wil abandon [Me, and wil choose the
 abominations of the nations,] their horrors [and their idols. They wi l
 serve] false gods which shal be for them a snare and a pitfal. [They
 wi l sin against the] holy [days], and against the Sabbath and the
 Covenant, [and against the commandments] which I command you to
keep this day.
 [Therefore I wi l smite] them with a mighty [blow] in the midst of the
 land [which they] cross the Jordan [to possess]. And when al the
 curses come upon them and catch up with them to destroy them and
 [blot] them out, then sha l they know that the truth has been [fulfi led] with
 regard to them.’
 Then Moses caled Eleazar son of [Aaron] and Joshua [son of Nun
 and said to them,] ‘Speak [al these words to the people] ... :
 [Be sti l,] I O Israel, and hear! This [day shal you become the
 people] of God, your [God. You shal keep My laws] and My
 testimonies [and My commandments which I] command you to [keep
 this] day. [And when you] cross the [Jordan so that I may give] you
 great [and good cities], and houses fi led with al [pleasant things, and
 vines and olives] which [you have not planted, and] wels which you
 have not dug, [beware,] when you have eaten and are ful, that your
 hearts be not lifted up, and that [you do not forget what I have
 commanded you to do this day. For] it is this that wi l bring you life and
 length of [days].’
 And Moses [spoke to the children] of Israel [and said to them]:
 ‘[Behold,] forty [years have passed since] the day we came out of
 the land [of Egypt, and today has God], our God, [uttered these words]
 from out of His mouth: [al] His [precepts and] al [His] precepts.
 ‘[But how shal I carry] your loads [and burdens and disputes alone]?
 When I have [established] the Covenant and commanded [the way] in
 which you shal walk, [appoint wise men whose] work it shal be to
 expound [to you and your children] al these words of the Law. [Watch
 carefuly] for your own sakes [that you keep them, lest] the wrath [of
 your God] kindle and burn against you, and He stop the heavens above
 from shedding rain [upon you], and [the water beneath the earth from]
 giving you [harvest].’
 And Moses [spoke further] to the children of Israel. ‘Behold the
 commandments [which God has] commanded you to keep ...’
Sermon on the Exodus and the Conquest of
 Canaan
 (4Q374)
 Only one of the sixteen surviving fragments of a writing,
 palaeographicaly dated to the last third of the first century BCE, which
 deals with the exodus from Egypt and the occupation of Canaan, is
 large enough to provide an inteligible account. The speaker remains
 anonymous but may conceivably be Joshua.
 For the editio princeps, see Carol Newsom, DJD, XIX, 99—110.
 Fr. 2
 I ... And the nations rose up in anger ... in their actions and in the
 uncleanness of the deeds of ... and there was no remnant for [them]
 and none who escaped and for their posterity ...
 And he made a plantation for u[s] his elect in the land that is the
 most desirable of al the lands ... And he made him as a god over the
 mighty and as a cause of dread for Pharaoh ... they melted and their
 heart trembled and their entrails dissolved. And he had mercy ... And
 when he made his face shine on them for healing, they strengthened
 [their] heart once more and knowledge ... None having known you, they
 melted and trembled ...
A Moses Apocryphona
 (4Q375)
 In a style imitating the Pentateuch, and recaling the Sayings of Moses
 from Cave 1 (1Q22), 4Q375, fr. 1, col. I lays down instructions
 regarding the treatment of a person who claims to be a prophet.
 Should he exhort people to commit apostasy, he is to be executed.
 However, his tribe may come to his rescue and lodge an appeal with
 the anointed priest in the city of the sanctuary. The very damaged col.
 11 contains a sacrificial ritual employing the terminology of the Day of
 Atonement from Lev. xvi. The script is early Herodian, i.e. late first
 century BCE.
 For the editio princeps,see John Strugnel, DJD, XIX, 111—19.
 Fr. 1
 I ... [You wi l do al that] your God has commanded you from the mouth
 of the prophet. You wi l keep [al] these [pre]cepts and you wi l return to
 the Lord your God with al [your heart and al]1 your soul. And your God
 wi l desist from the wrath of his great anger [to save you] from your
 misery. And the prophet who wil arise and speak defection in your
 midst, turning you away from your God, shal be put to death. But if the
 tribe from which he originates stands up (for him) and says, ‘Let him
 not be put to death, for he is righteous; he is a [trus]tworthy prophet’,
 you, your elders and your judges wi l come with that tribe [t]o the place
 which your God wil choose within one of your tribes (to appear) before
 [the] anointed priest on whose head the oil of anointing has been
 poured.
A Moses Apocryphonb
 (4Q376, 1Q29)
 This mid-first-century BCE text, which partly overlaps with 1Q29, is a
 reworking of Exod. xxviii, 9—12, dealing with the two engraved stones
 set in the shoulder pieces of the high priest’s liturgical garment (the
 ephod). Another fragment introduces the secular head of the
 community, the ‘Prince of the whole congregation’ (cf. 1QM v,1; CD V I,
 20, etc.) in his military role, confronting the enemies of Israel or
 attacking one of their towns.
 For the editio princeps, see John Strugnel, DJD, XIX, 121—36.
 Fr. 1
 I they shal shed light on you. And he shal go out with it with tongues of
 fire. The left-hand stone on his left side wi l show itself to the eyes of al
 the assembly until the priest has completed his speech. And
 afterwards the ... has gone up ... And you shal keep and d[o al]1 [that]
 he shal speak to you. And the prophe[t] ...
 ... preaches rebelion ...
 I according to al this judgement. And if the Prince of the whole
 congregation shal be in the camp and ... his enemy and Israel is with
 him, or if they go against a city to besiege it or any matter which ... to
 the Prince ... the distant field ...
A Moses Apocryphonc
 (4Q408)
 One medium-sized and sixteen smal fragments represent a colection
 of liturgical prayers of which only one can be partly translated. The
 document is akin to 4Q375 and 376 as wel as to 1Q29.
 Palaeographicaly the document is placed in the late second century
 BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see Annette Steudel, DJD, XXXVI, 298
319.
 Fr. 3 + 3a
 ... [Bl]essed art Thou, O Lord, who art righteous in al Thy ways. Be
 mighty in strength ... [in Thy judge]ments. Thou who art faithful ... Thou
 art understanding [with a l in]te ligence ... might. Thou who art
 ... to bring out ... who hast created the morning as a sign to reveal the
 dominion of the light as the boundary of the daytime ... for their work.
 To bless Thy holy name Thou hast created them. For the light is good
 ... [Thou art ...] who hast created the evening as a sign to reveal the
 dominion [of darkness] ... from labour. Thou hast [c]reated them to
 bless Thy holy name when they see that the light is good and when ...
 Thou hast created the evening as a sign (to mark) the appearance of
 the dominion of [darkness] ...
Apocryphal Pentateuch B (formerly ‘A Moses
 Apocryphonc’ )
 (4Q377)
 This is part of an apocryphal account of the story of the Israelites at
 Sinai and in the wilderness. Fragment 2 ii introduces an elder caled
 Elibah, who curses the Jews who fail to observe the Law mediated by
 Moses during the latter’s stay with God on the mountain.
 For the editio princeps, see J. VanderKam and M. Brady, DJD,
 XXV I, 205—17.
 Fr. 2 i
 I ... they wi l understand the precepts of Moses. And Elibah answered
 and said: Hearken, congregation of the Lord, and listen, al the
 assembly! ... Cursed be the man who does not stand by, keep and
 prac[tise] a l the comman[dments of the L]ord (issued) by the mouth of
 Moses, His anointed, and folow the Lord, the God of our fathers, He
 who commanded us from the mountain of Sinai. And He spoke to the
 people of Israel face to face as a man speaks to his friend ... He made
 us look at a consuming fire from under the heaven. And on the earth,
 He stood on the mountain to make it known that there is no god beside
 Him and no rock like Him. [And al] the assembly ... and trembling
 seized them because of the glory of God and the marvelous voices ...
 and they stood at a distance. And Moses the man of God (was) with
 God in the cloud and the cloud covered him. For ... when he was
 halowed and out of His mouth he spoke like an angel. For who is a
messenger like him? ... a man of grace who were not created from
 everlasting to everlasting ...
A Moses (or David) Apocryphon
 (4Q373, 2Q22)
 Three smal Cave 4 fragments which partly overlap with 2Q22
 published by M. Bai let (DJD, I, 81—2) represent a historical narrative
 of an unnamed speaker in the first person, and with the single actual
 name of Og, king of Bashan (cf. Num. xxi, 33—5; Deut. iii, 4—5, 11).
 Bai let and the editor of 4Q373, Eileen Schuler, wonder whether the
 narrator is David and the subject is his fight with Goliath, a theory
 based on a few verbal similarities to 1 Samuel xvii, which cannot,
 however, easily account for the mention of Og, apart from his height
 (see Deut. iii, 11) which was comparable to that of the giant Goliath (cf.
 1 Sam. xvii, 4). S. Talmon, on the other hand, has argued that the topic
 of the fragment is more likely to be the defeat of Og by Moses, richly
 elaborated by Targum, Midrash and Talmud (cf. L. Ginzberg, The
 Legends of the JewsI, 160; I, 340—47; V, n. 181; VI, 667-8, 684—
 700). On the whole, the second alternative seems slightly preferable.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Schuler and M. Bernstein, DJD,
 XXV I, 199—204.
 4Q373 1-2 (2Q22)
 ... a l his servants Og ... his height was ... and a half cubits and two
 [cubits were his breadth ... ] a spear like a cedar tree ... a shield like a
 tower. The nimble-footed ... he who removed them seven stadia. [I] did
 not stand ... and I did not change. The Lord our God broke him. I
 prepared wounding slings together with bows and not ... for war to
 conquer fortified cities and to rout ...
Prophecy of Joshua
 (4Q522, 5Q9)
 Two mutilated columns, as wel as several further smal fragments, of a
 narrative appear to describe the future conquest and/or division of the
 Holy Land. It appears to be related to the extremely fragmentary 5Q9,
 published by J. T. Milik in DJD, I, 179—80, which mentions the name
 of Joshua. Col. 1 of 4Q522 consists of a list of localities, of which a
 number appear in Joshua xv—xxi (e.g. Beer Sheba, Bealoth, Keilah,
 Adulam, etc.) and Judges i (Ashkelon, Kitron). Col. 11 predicts the
 conquest of Zion by David and the building of the Temple. In col. 11, 4
 and 7 God is referred to in the third person, but in lines 9—10 he
 seems to be the speaker.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q522, see E. Puech, DJD, XXV, 39—
 74.
 Fr. 9
 I ... For behold a son is born to Jesse, son of Perez, son of Ju[dah] ...
 [He is to take] the Rock of Zion and from there he is to possess the
 Amorites ... to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel. Gold and
 silver ... cedars and cypress trees wi l he br[ing from] Lebanon to build
 it. And the sons of ... and David. The Lor[d] wil make (him) dwel in
 security ... [The Lord of h]eaven wi l reside with him [for] ever. But now
 the Amorites are there and the Canaan[ites] ... inhabitant whom I
 consider guilty, whom I have not sought ... from you. And the Shilonite
 and the ... I have made him a slave ... And now ... to a distance from ...
 Eleazar ...
A Joshua Apocryphon (i) or Psalms of Joshua
 (4Q378—9)
 Usualy designated by the misnomer ‘Psalms of Joshua’, this badly
 mutilated composition represents a rewritten account of the story of
 Joshua. 4Q378, written in Herodian formal script, consists of twenty
seven mostly tiny fragments, while the late Hasmonaean 4Q379
 comprises forty-one. The majority of the fragments are too smal for
 meaningful translation. According to Carol Newsom, the overal form of
 the composition is a farewel speech by Joshua. It contains
 admonitions, curses and prayers (e.g. ‘prayer for our sins’, 4Q378 6 i,
 1.4, a prayer listing the twelve tribes of Israel—Levi, Reuben, Gad, and
 Dan are legible, 4Q379 1), songs (‘songs of praise’, 4Q379 22 ii, 7,
 and a praise mentioning Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Eleazar and
 Ithamar, 4Q379 17). The biblical text used recals the Septuagint and
 the Samaritan Pentateuch. The numbering of the fragments appears to
 be arbitrary, as it does not correspond to the sequence of the biblical
 story. 4Q379 22 ii is quoted in 4QTestimonia (4Q175).
 For the editio princeps, see Carol Newsom, DJD, XXI, 241—99.
 4Q378 14
 ... And the children [of Israel] wept [for Moses in the plains of Moab
 (Deut. xxxiv, 8) by the Jordan at] Jericho at Bethjeshimoth [as far as
 Abel-shittim (Num. xxxiii, 48—9) for thirty days and (then) the days of
 weeping and] mourning for Moses were ended (Deut. xxxiv, 8). And the
 children of Israel ... [the covenant wh]ich the Lord made for ...
 ... Thy [dr]ead and fear ...
4Q378 I
 ... for the Lord yo[ur God] ... [to es]tablish his words which he spoke ...
 [the oath] which he swore to Abraham to give [him] a good and broad
 [land], a land of brooks of water, [of fountains and springs, flowing forth
 in val]leys and hi ls, a land of wheat and barley, [of vines and fig trees
 and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and] honey (Deut. viii, 7—8).
 For [this is] a land flowing with milk and honey; ( ... a land] who[se
 sto]nes are iron and out of whose hi[l]s [you can dig] copper (Deut. viii,
 9) ...
 4Q378 22 i
 ... Moses, O my God. And he did not annihilate them because of their
 sins ... thy people by the hand of Joshua, minister of thy servant Moses
 thy ... by the hand of Moses(?) to Joshua for the sake of thy people ...
 [the covenant] which thou hast made with Abraham ...
 ... loving-kindness to thousands
 4Q379 12
 ... they [cr]ossed (the Jordan) on dry grounds (cf. Josh. iv, 22) in [the
 fi]rst month of the forty-f[irst] year of their exodus from the lan[d] of
 Egypt (cf. Josh. iv, 19). That was a jubilee year at the beginning of their
 entry into the land of Canaan. And the Jordan overflows its banks from
 the f[our]th (?) month until the wheat harvest ...
 4Q379 22 i (combined with 4Q175, lines 21-30)
Blessed be the Lord, the God of I[srael] ...
 When Josh[ua] fini[sh]ed off[ering prai]se in [his] thanksgivings, [he
 said]: C[ursed be the m]an who rebui[1]ds [this cit]y! [May he lay its
 foundations] on [his] first-born, and [s]et its gate on [his y]oungest son
 (Josh. vi, 26). Behold, an [accur]sed [man of Belial] [has risen] to
 be[com]e a fowler’s net to his people and a cause of destruction to al
 his neighbour[s]. And [his brother] arose [and ruled in li]es, both of
 them being instruments of violence. They have rebuilt [th]is [city] and
 have set up for it a wal and towers to make it a stronghold of
 ungodliness in Israel and a horror in Ephraim and in Judah and a great
 evil among the children of Jacob. [And they have com]mitted an
 abomination in the land and a great blasphemy and sh[ed blood] like
 wa[ters on the ramparts of the daughter] of Zion and in the precincts of
 Jerusalem ...
A Joshua Apocryphon (i) (Masada 1039—211)
 Two fragments detached from an apocryphal account of the end of the
 Book of Joshua are thought by their editor, S. Talmon, to have
 originated at Qumran. The composition belongs to the genre of
 ‘rewritten Bible’ and testifies to a freedom in rete ling scriptural stories.
 The handwriting places the manuscript towards the turn of the era.
 For a preliminary edition, see Shemaryahu Talmon, ‘Fragments of a
 Joshua Apocryphon—Masada 1039—211 (final photo 5254)’, JJS 47
 (1996), 128—39.
 Fr. A
 ... they were afraid ... [they were praising] the name of the Most High
 for they saw th[at ... God] was fighting for His people against their
 enemies [and they were not afraid ... ] because of them for God was
 with them and blessed them and sa[ve]d them. [And whatever] he said
 about them happened to them and no word [fe]l to the ground, and He
 multiplied their [seed greatly].
The Samuel Apocryphon
 (4Q160)
 Fragments of an account of the story of Samuel from Cave 4 (4Q160),
 said to pertain to the second century BCE, were published by J. M.
 Alegro. They folow the first book of Samuel and include a narrative
 passage, a dialogue between Samuel and Eli, a prayer and an
 autobiographical discourse.
 For the editio princeps, see J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson,
 DJD,V, 9—11.
 Fr. 1
 [F]or [I have s]worn [to] the house [of Eli that the iniquity of the house of
 Eli relating to sacrifices and offerings shal never be expiated. And]
 Samue[1] heard the words of the Lord ... [and] Samuel lay down before
 Eli. And he rose and opened the ga[tes of the house of the Lord. And
 Samuel was afraid] to report to Eli the oracle. Answering, Eli said [to
 Samuel: Samuel, my son, let] me know the vision of God. Do not [hide
 it from me, pray! May God do to you thus and may He add to it] if you
 hide from me anything of the words that He spoke to you. [And]
 Samuel [reported al and hid nothing] ...
 Frs. 3-5
 ... Thy servant. I have not restrained my strength until this (moment), for
 ... [let them] be gathered, O my God, to Thy people and be a help to it
and raise it ... [and deliver] their [fe]e[t] from muddy clay [and] establish
 for them a rock from of old, for Thy praise [is over al the peo]ples. Thy
 people shal take refuge [in Thy house] ... Amid the rage of the
 enemies of Thy people, Thou shalt verify Thy glory [and] over the lands
 and seas ... and Thy fear is over [al]l... and kingdom. And al the
 peoples of Thy lands shal know [that] Thou hast created them ... and
 the multitudes shal understand that this is Thy people ... Thy holy ones
 whom Thou hast sanctified.
A Paraphrase on Kings
 (4Q382)
 154 papyrus fragments, palaeographicaly dated to the first half of the
 first century BCE, belong to a kind of paraphrase of the Books of
 Kings as various personal names (Jezebel, Ahab, Obadiah, Elijah,
 Elisha) clearly indicate. Only one fragment is extensive enough to alow
 inte ligible translation. An unidentified speaker recounts events
 pertaining to the history of Israel in the form of an address to God.
 For the editio princeps, see S. Olyan, DJD, X I, 363—416.
 Fr. 104
 ... from Thy word and to rely on Thy covenant and their heart be ... to
 sanctify Him/it ... hands so that they might be Thine, and Thou theirs
 and Thou be righteous ... For Thou wilt be a giver of an inheritance ...
 and lord over them and Thou wilt be a father to them and not ... Thou
 hast forsaken them to the hand of their kings and hast made them
 stumble among the people[s] ... not ... Thy life. Didst Thou give them
 [the Law?] by the hand of Moses ... Thy judgements and lifting the
 iniquity of Thy people to the heights ... Thy patience and the multitude
 [of mercies?] ...
An Elisha Apocryphon
 (4Q481a)
 Three minute fragments reproduce the Hebrew text of 2 Kings ii, 14—
 16 with paraphrastic supplements. Only fr. 2 can be partly
 reconstructed and translated. The opening words ‘[And] Elisha went
 up’ are without biblical para lel.
 For the editio princeps, see J. Trebole, DJD, XXI, 305—9.
 Fr. 2
 ... [And] Elisha went up. [When the sons of the prophets who were over
 at Jericho] saw [him over against them, they said, The spirit of Elijah
 rests over Elish]a. And they came to meet Elisha, [and bowed to the
 ground before him. And they said to him, Behold now, there are with
 your servants] fifty [strong] men; [pray, let them go, and seek your
 master; it may be that the spirit of the Lord has caught him up and cast
 him upon some mou]nta[in or into some valey].
A Zedekiah Apocryphon
 (4Q470)
 Three badly damaged fragments of an early Herodian manuscript
 speak in favourable terms of the last Judaean king Zedekiah. He is
 depicted as conversing with the archangel Michael who promises to
 make a covenant with him. The Bible is less kind towards this evil-doer
 (2 Kgs xxiv, 19, etc.), but 4Q470 prefigures Josephus, who praises
 Zedekiah’s ‘goodness and sense of justice’ (Antiquities X, 120), and
 the Talmud (bShab. 149b; bSanh. 103a; bArak. 17a).
 For the editio princeps of 4Q470, see Erik Larson, Lawrence H.
 Schiffinan and John Strugnel, DJD, XIX, 235—44.
 Fr. 1
 ... Michael ... Zedekiah [sha l en]ter into a covenant on [th]at day ... to
 practise and to cause al the Torah to be practised. [At] that time
 M[ich]ael shal say to Zedekiah.... I wi l make with you [a cov]e[nant]
 before the assembly [to p]ractise ...
 Fr. 3
 ... their [c]ry towards heaven ... [to] restore them to health and help
 them by the spirit of [his] m[ight] ...
 ... and by the pi lar of fire [many] times ... And Moses wrote when he
 spoke according to a[l] ... Kadesh B[arnea] ...
A Historico-theological Narrative based on
 Genesis and Exodus
 (4Q462—4)
 Palaeographicaly dated to the mid-first century BCE, the two joined
 fragments of 4Q462 represent the only meaningful part of a historical
 narrative told from a theological point of view. Both the beginning and
 the end of each of the nineteen lines are missing, but the general tenor
 of the story can be guessed: after repeated oppression and
 humiliation, God is to remember Jerusalem. The Tetragram is twice
 replaced by four dots as in the Community Rule (1QS) V I, 15. There
 are six further smal fragments.
 For the editio princeps of 4Q462, see M. Smith, DJD, XIX, 195—
 209. 4Q463, or Narrative D, contains only a few broken lines, starting
 with ‘And God remembered his word which he said’, folowed by the
 quotation of Lev. xxvi, 44. Apparently the fragment has vanished and
 the text edited by M. Smith (ibid., 211-14) is based on J. Strugnel’s
 transcription. The poorly preserved 4Q464 (ibid., 215—3 2) refers to
 Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and apparently to Joseph. Fr. 3 ii, 7 contains
 the word pesher (interpretation), suggesting that an exegetical
 comment folowed in the lacuna.
 4Q462
 ... [Shem and] Ham and Japhet ... for Jacob ... for Israe[l] ...
 ... And he wi l give (the land?) to the multitude as a heritage. ... (=the
 Lord) who rules ... his glory which ... wi l fi l the waters and the earth ...
 They seized his people. The light was with them and [darkness] was on
us ...
 The [per]iod of darkness [passed away] and the period of light came
 and they were to rule for ever. Therefore he wi l say, ... to Israel, for in
 our midst was the people of the beloved, (of) Jac[ob] ... And they
 slaved, and they were safeguarded and they cried to .... (=the Lord) ...
 And behold they were handed over to Egypt for the second time in the
 period of the kingship, and [they] were safeguarded ... [and the
 inha]bitants of Philistia and Egypt wi l become a booty and a ruin. And
 he wil make it stand ...
 ... the fierceness of her face wi l be changed to brightness and her
 15 soiled garments [to] ... And he wi l remember Jerusalem ...
Tobit
 (4Q196—200
 Prior to the Qumran finds, the Book of Tobit existed among the
 Apocrypha in two, a long and a short, Greek recensions and in various
 secondary ancient versions. Cave 4 has revealed remains of four
 Aramaic (4Q196—9) and one Hebrew (4Q200) manuscripts, of which
 two scrols, the papyrus Toba (196) and the leather Tobb (197), have
 yielded copious extracts. They al basicaly represent the Semitic
 original from which the longer Greek recension, attested by the fourth
century CE Codex Sinaiticus, and the Old Latin version were made.
 Toba, Tobc and Tobd are palaeographicaly dated to the first century
 BCE and Tobb, as wel as the Hebrew Tobe, to the turn of the era (30
 BCE-20 CE). The translation of a composite Aramaic text is folowed
 separately by that of the Hebrew fragments. The Aramaic and the
 Hebrew overlap only in Tob. xiv, 1—2. Of the two, the Aramaic,
 represented by older and more numerous manuscripts, is likely to be
 the original language of the composition.
 The folowing i lustrate some of the differences between the Aramaic
 (A), and the Greek (G) Tobit:
 i, 22 (A) He was the son of my brother, of my father’s house and of
 my family. (G) He was my brother’s son and of my kindred.
 ii, 1 (A) On the day of the Festival of Weeks (G) At the feast of
 Pentecost which is the sacred festival of the seven weeks
 vi, 6 (A) Also he salted the rest for the journey. Both of them were
 going together (G) and left part of it salted. And they journeyed
 both of them together
 vi, 12 (A) and her father loves her (G) and her father is an
 honourable man
 xiv, 2(A) He was fifty-eight years old when he lost his sight and
afterward he lived fifty-four years (G) He was sixty-two years old
 when he was maimed in his eyes (Sinaiticus) He was fifty-eight
 years old when he lost his sight and after eight years he
 regained it (Vaticanus)
 For the editio princeps of 4Q196-200, see J. A. Fitzmyer, DJD, XIX, 1
79.
 4Q196, Fr. 2 Tob. i, 19—i, 2
 (i, 19) [one o]f the men of Nineveh, and he informed the kin[g about
 me, th]at I was bury[ing them (the murdered Jews) and] I hid myself.
 When I learned that he knew of me [and sought to kil]1 [me], I was
 frightened and fled. (20) ... [al]1 that I possessed and nothing was left
 to me ... a[part from Hanna]h my wife and Tobiah my son. (21) But not
 f[orty] days passed [before two of] his (Sennacherib’s) [sons ki led him]
 and they fled to the mountains of Ararat. Then [Esarhaddo]n became
 king [and he] appointed Ahikar, the son of my brother Anael, over al
 the ac[count]s [of the kingdom. And he was in ch]arge of al the royal
 treasury accounts. (22) And Ahikar intervened for me ... [And Ahi]kar
 my brother was the cupbearer, the guardian of the signet ring and the
 accountant under Sennacherib, king of Assyria, and Esarhaddon
 reappointed him. Now he was the son of my brother, of my father’s
 house and of my family.
 (ii, 1) And in the days of [ki]ng Esarhaddon, when I returned to my
 home 10 and Hannah my wife and Tobiah my son were restored to
 me, on the day of the Festival of Wee[ks, I] had an excelent meal and I
 reclined to [ea]t. (2) And they put a table in front of me and I saw the
 many delicacies placed on it, [and I] said [to Tob]iah my son, My son,
 go and bring al those among our brot[hers whom you] can find ... my
 son, go and bring (them). Let him be brought (here) and eat [together]
 with me. And behold I ...
Fr. 6 Tob. i, 9—15
 (iii, 9) ... [Go] after them (after her seven deceased husbands) and let
 us n[ot] see a son [or a daughter] of yours [ever.] (10) ... [and she cried
 and went] up to the upper room of [her father’s] house ... [may I not
 hear] again [such a dis]graceful thing in my life. And ... (I I) against ...
 [May] thy holy [and glo]rious name [be blessed] for al et[ernity. And]
 may [al thy works] bless [thee]. (12) [And now I have turned] my face
 [to]wards thee and I have [li]fted my eyes. (13) Say that I should depart
 from [the earth] ... (14) [Thou, O Lord, kn]owest that I myself am pure o[f
 a]l impurity [of man.
 (15) And I have not de]filed [my] nam[e and the name of] my [father]
 in al the land of our captivity. I am [the on]ly child [of my father and] he
 has no other son who would inherit from him. Nei[ther has he] a brother
 or a relation [for whom I] should [keep my]self, or a son f[or whom I
 should b]e a wife. Already seve[n] of my [husbands] have per[ished] ...
 4Q197, fr. 4 + 4Q196, fr. 13 Tob. v, 19—vi, 12 [vi,
 6-8]
 I (v, 19) ... Let my son not cleave [to mone]y and like ... (21) [And] he
 said to her, Do not be afraid. My son wil go in peace ... [in pea]ce. Do
 not be afraid. And do not worry about him, my sister. (22) ... [his]
 jour[ney] ...
 (vi, I) Once again [she fel silen]t and cried no more. vacat
 (2) ... [and the ang]el was with him and ... [and they went] together.
 And [night] came [and they reached] the Tigris. (3) And the young man
 went down ... [and] a big [fis]h [jumped] out of [the water to swal]ow the
 foot of the young man ... (4) ... [C]atch the f[ish! And] the young man
 [se]ized [the fish and brou]ght it to the dry land. And [the angel] s[aid to
 him, (5) Cut] it open and remove [its gal and] its [heart and its liver.
 Keep] them, but [throw away its] entrails. [Its ga l], its [heart] and its liver
 are [medicament]. (6) And [he cut out its gal and] its [h]eart and [its
liver ... the f]ish and he ate (it). Also {he sa[lted the re]st for the journey}
 (4Q196). Both of them were going [to]gether [until they rea]ched
 Media. vacat (7) {The young man [as]ked the ang[el]} (4Q196) [and
 s]aid to him, Azariah my brother, what kind of medicament is in the
 heart of the fish and in its liv[er and in its gal? (8) If you] smoke it in
 front of a man or a woman smitten by a demon or an [evil] spirit ... they
 wi l [n]ever come by again. (9) The gal is for applying to the ey[es of a
 man] ... white film and he wil recover. (10) And when they entered
 Media and he was already ne[aring Ecbatana, (11) Raphael said to
 the young] man, T[o]biah my brother. And he said to him, Here am I.
 And he said to him, In the house [of Raguel we shal stay. And the m]an
 is from the house of our father. And he has a beautiful daughter ... (12)
 [And] he has [no other (children) except Sarah a]l[one]. And you are
 re[lat]ed to her ... [And this young girl]
 4Q197, fr. 4 + 4Q196, fr. 14 i Tob. vi, 12—18 [vi,
 13—18]
 I [wise, stron]g and very beautiful, and her father loves [her] ... her
 father. And a just decision has been made concerning you (13) to
 m[arry her] ... You wi l speak about this young girl tonight. You wi l retain
 her and take her to be your wif[e ... And {when we return from [Rages]}
 (4Q196), [we shal make for her] a wedding-feast. And I know that
 Raguel cannot refuse her to you for he knows ... and to marry his
 daughter than any (other) ma[n. For h]e kno[ws] that if he were to give
 her to [another] man [this would be against the law in the Book] of
 Moses. And now [let us speak about] this [young] gir[1] tonight and let
 us retain her [for you ... (14) Then Tobiah replied and said to Rapha]el,
 Azariah my brother, I have heard ... (that she had seven husbands who
 al died) when they went in to her.... (15) And now I am [af]raid of this
 demon who {loves her ... the demon kils them} (4Q196)
 ... (bring) my [fath]er and my mother [to the grave ... They have] no
 other son [to bury them.] (16) {[Do you not remember the com]mands
of your father} (4Q196) who commanded you ... {[And no]w listen to
 me, my brother. Do not (be afraid of) this [de]mon and marry (her)
 {tonight ... (17) [t]ake from the heart [of the fish] ... (18) ... the demon
 [wi l sme]l it and wi l (flee]} (4Q196)
 ... (When you go in) [to be wi]th her, ri[se up] ... [And do n]ot be afraid
 [for] she has been alotted to you and for you ... you wi l save [her. And] I
 suppose that you wil have [children by her and ... And when] Tobiah
 [h]eard the words of Raphae[l that she was h]is sister and of ...
 4Q197, fr. 4 + 4Q196, fr. 14 i Tob. vi, 18—v i, 10
 [vi, 18-v i, 6]
 I [the house of his father’s family] he fel in love with her [gr]eatly and
 his heart (was much attached) to her. (vii, 1) And when they entered
 Ecbat[ana], Tobiah [said] to him, Aza[riah my brother, lead] me straight
 away to the house of Raguel our brother. He led him there and [they]
 went [to the house] of Raguel and [they] found Rague[1 s]itting in front
 of the gate of his home. And first they greeted him and he said to them,
 In peace you have come. Enter in peace, my brothers. And he brought
 them into his house. (2) Then he said to Edna his wife, How much this
 young man resembles Tobit, the son of my uncle. (3) And Edna asked
 them and said to them, Where are you from, my brothers? and they
 said to her, From among the children of Naphtali [who] are captives in
 Niniveh. And she said to them, Do you know Tobit our brother? And
 they said to her, We know him. Is he wel? (5) And they said, He is
 wel[l. And To]biah [sa]id, He is my father. (6) And Raguel jumped to his
 feet and kissed him and crie[d]. (7) ... A blessing on [you my son. You
 are the] s[on] of a just man ... the neck of Tobiah ... (9) he slaugh[tered]
 a ram from the flock ... to eat and to drink.... my sister. (10) And
 [Raguel] heard ...
 4Q]197, fr. 5 Tob. v i, 21—ix, 2
(21)... my son. I am your father and Edna is [your] m[other] ... [Do not
 be] afraid, my son. vacat (ix, I) [Then Tobiah caled Raphael and said
 to] him, (2) Azariah my brother, take with you from here fo[ur slaves] ...
 ... [and] you wi l come to the house of Gab[ae]l and give him the
 document and take [the money] ...
 4Q196, fr. 17 Tob. x i, 6—12
 ... [with a l]
 I your heart and [with al] your [s]oul to [do righteousness. 
Then he] wi l turn to you, 
and wil no l[onger hide] his [face] from you. 
[Give] him [thanks] with a l your mouth 
and ble[ss the Lord] of righteousness and ex[alt him]. 
[In the land] of captivity I give him thanks 
and I dec[lare] his [m]ight and [his] greatne[ss 
before a people of s]in. 
According to your heart 
[do] righ[teousness] before him. 
[Who] kno[ws if there wi l be f]orgiveness [for you]. 
(7) And I exalt my God and my [so]ul the ki[ng of heaven]. 
... a l the day[s of my life]. 
... [and let them al]l [pr]aise his greatness. 
(8) Let them speak with psalm[s] ... 
(9) [Jerusalem] the holy city, 
he wil [aff]lic[t you] concerning ... 
(10) ... [with righ]teousness give thanks ... 
... from generation to generation they wi l give ... 
[and his] great name [wi l be for] everlasting [gene]rations. 
(12) Cur[sed] be [a]l [who] despise (you) 
and al who are against [you]. 
And cursed be al[l who hate] you 
and al [who spe]ak [a]gainst you. 
Cursed be ...
 4Q196, fr. 18 + 4Q198, fr. 1 Tob. x i, 12—xiv, 3
 (18) ... [wi l] s[a]y, Ha le[luiah] ... 
[Blessed be for ever] and ever 
for in you they wi l bless [his holy] n[ame] ...
 (xiv, 1) [The words of thanksgivings of To]bit [ended] and he died in
 peace at the a[ge of one hundred and twelve years and he was
 buried]. (2) [He was] fifty-ei[ght] years [old] ... his [e]yes. He lived a
 good life and in al ... {[and he gave] alms and continued to fear God
 and to pr[aise his greatness. (3) And he caled Tobiah his son and] his
 [seven]} (4Q198) sons and commanded him and said to [him] ...
 4Q200, fr. 2 Tob. iv, 3—9
 ... (4) ... and she carried you in [her] womb ... vacat (5) My son,
 [re]member] God in al your days ... his word. vacat [Do] what is true
 [a] l the days of [your] l[ife, and do not walk in the way]s of lies. (6) For
 when you do what is t[rue ... wil] be with you. (7) ... My son, with a
 generous hand [give] alms, and do not hi[de your face from any p]oor.
 Then [the face of Go]d wil not be hid]den [from you. (8) If you have
 much, [my] son, ... [giv]e al[m]s from it. If you have little, according to the
 little (you wi l give)....
 Fr. 4 Tob. x, 7—9
 [And when] the fourteen days of the [wedding] were completed for
 them which Raguel had sworn to make for Sarah his daughter,
 To[b]iah came [to him] and said to him, Send me away (for) I already
know that [my father does not believe, n]or does my mother believe
 that she wi l see m[e] again. And now I request [y]ou, my father, that you
 send me away that I may go to my father. Already I have recounted to
 you how I left them. (8) And Raguel said to Tobiah, My son, remain with
 me and I wil send messengers to Tobit y[o]ur father and the[y] ...
 Fr. 6 Tob. x i, 20—x i, 4
 ... [Record in writing a l] this story. And he (Raphael) ascended. (21)... 
[and they saw] him [no more]. (22) And they were blessing [and
 exto ling 
God and giving him thanks for] his great d[ee]d and wondered how [an 
angel of God] had appeared [to them]. (xiii, 1) Then Tobit spoke and 
wrote a psalm of praise, and s[aid, 
Blessed be] the living [God] whose kingdom is for al eternity: 
(2) He who [strikes and wh]o is merciful; 
He who causes to descend to the nethermost hel, 
and he who brings up from the [g]rea[t] abyss. 
And who is there who can escape from his hand? 
(3) Give him thanks, children of Isra(el, in front of the nations], 
you who are exiled among them. 
(4) Recite there [his greatness and extol him before al]l the living. 
For he is your Lord, and he is [your] God 
... [for al]l [eternity].
 Fr. 7 Tob. x i, 18—xiv, 2
 I ... (xiv, 1) And [Tobit’s words of praise were] completed, [and he
 di]ed in peace aged [one hundred and twelve years]. He was fifty-eight
 years old (when he lost) his [s]ight [and] afterward [he lived fifty]-fo[ur
 years].
Apocryphon of Jeremiah
 (4Q383, 385a, 387, 387a, 388a, 389—90)
 Origina ly considered as part of an Ezekiel apocryphon, the remains of
 these manuscripts, written in a wel-imitated biblical Hebrew, have
 been identified by the editor as pertaining to an apocryphal account of
 the life of Jeremiah in Babylon and in Egypt. The script probably dates
 to the end of the first century
 BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see D. Dimant, DJD, XXX, 91—260. For
 the related 4Q384, see M. Smith, DJD, XIX, 136—52.
 4Q385a, fr. 18 i- i
 I vacat ... Jeremiah the Prophet [departed] from before the Lord
 (YHWH) ... [to accompany the] captives who were taken captive from
 the land of Jerusalem and came [to ... Nebuchadnezzar,] king of Babel,
 when Nabuzaradan, the chief of the bodyguard, smote ... and took the
 vessels of the house of God, the priests ... and the sons of Israel and
 led them to Babel. And Jeremiah the Prophet went [with them as far
 as] the river and he commanded them what they were to do in the land
 of [their] captivity ... [And they obeyed] the voice of Jeremiah in regard
 to the words which God commanded him ... and they were to keep the
 covenant of the God of their fathers in the land [of their captivity ... and
 they were not to d]o as they had done and their kings and priests [and
 ... and they] profaned [the na]me of God ...
 I In Tahpanes wh[ich is in the land of Egypt ... ] and they said to him,
Inquire [of G]od for us.... But Jeremiah [did not listen] to them and did
 not inquire for them of Go[d] ... a jubilation and prayer. And Jeremiah
 lamented ... lamentations ov]er Jerusalem ... vacat [And the word of the
 Lord was addressed to] Jeremiah in the land of Tahpanes which was
 in the land of Eg[ypt ... Go to] the sons of Israel and the sons of Judah
 and Benjamin [... and speak to them saying,] Day by day seek my
 decrees and ke[ep] my commandments ... and do not [folow] the
 i[d]ols of the nations [after] which [your fathers] wa[lked ... for] they wi l
 not sa[ve y]ou ... nor ...
 4Q387, fr. 2 i (4Q385a, fr. 4, 4Q389, fr. 8 i)
 ... strengthen yourselves to serve Me with al your heart and al[l your
 soul].... in their distress. But I wi l not seek them on account of their
 unfaithfulness by which they were unfaithful to me until the completion
 of ten jubilee of years. And you wil walk in ... and blindness and
 stupefaction of the heart. And after the completion of that generation I
 [wi l tear away] the kingship from the hand of those who have been
 holding fast to it and I shal place over it others from another people
 and impudence wil rule on al [the ea]rth and the kingship of Israel wi l
 perish. In those days [there] wi l [be a king and h]e wi l be a reviler and
 he wil perform abominations, but I wi l tear away [his] kingship and that
 king wi l be (destined) for kings. And My face wil be concealed from
 Israel ... wi l return to many nations. And the sons of Israel wil cry
 because of the heavy yoke in the lands of their captivity and there wi l
 be no saviour for them because they despised my decree and their
 soul loathed my Law ...
 Fr. 2 i (4Q388a, fr. 7, 4Q389, fr. 8)
 ... In his days I wi l break the kingship of [Egypt] ... and I wi l break Israel
 and I wil deliver them to the sword, [and I wi l de]stroy the [I]and and I
wi l distance man and wil leave the land into the hand of the angels of
 hostilities. And I wi l conceal [my] face [from Is]rael. And this is the sign
 for them. On the day when I wil forsake the land ... the priests of Israel
 [wi l return] to worship other gods [and wi l perform the abomin]ations
 of the [nations] ...
 Fr. 3 (4Q385a, fr. 5)
 ... three priests who did not walk in the ways of the former [priests] and
 are caled by the name of the God of Israel. And in their days the pride
 of the wicked ones of the Covenant and the worshippers of strange
 (gods) wi l be brought low. Israel wi l be torn in that generation, each
 man waging war against his neighbour because of the Law and the
 Covenant. And I wil send famine into the [lan]d but not concerning
 bread and thirst, but no[t] concerning water ...
 4Q388a, fr. 7 (4Q387, fr. 2 i, 4Q389, fr. 8 i)
 I have despised them and they wil again perform evil and evil wil be
 greater than [the former evil, and they wi l breach] the Covenant which [I
 conclu]ded with Abraham and with Isaac and with [Jacob. In] those
 [days] a king wi l rise up [for the nat]ions, a reviler and he wi l do evil.
 And in [his] days I wi l [stop] Israel from being a people ... In his days I
 wi l break the kingship of [Egypt] ... and I wi l break Israel and I wil
 deliver them to the sword, [and I wil de]stroy the [l]and and I wil
 distance man and wil leave the land into the hand of the angels of
 hostilities. And I wi l conceal [my] face [from Is]rael. And this is the sign
 for them. On the day when I wil forsake the land ... the priests of Israel
 [wi l return] to worship other gods [and wi l perform the abomin]ations
 of the [nations] ...
4Q389, fr. 8 (4Q385a 4, 4Q387, 2 i- i, 4Q388a 7
 i)
 I ... a reviler and he wil do abominations. And I wil tear away his
 kingship and he too wil be (destined) to (hostile) kings. And my face
 wi l be concealed from Israel and [the kingship] wil return to many
 nations. And the sons of Israel wi l cry because of the heavy yoke in the
 lands of their captivity and there wi l be no saviour for them because
 they despised my decree and their soul loathed my Law. Therefore I
 have concealed my face from [them] until they have completed their
 iniquity. vacat And this is the sign for them regarding the completion of
 their iniquity. [For] I have forsaken the land because of the pride of their
 heart towards Me and they have not known that I have despised them
 and they wil again perform evil which wil be greater than the former
 evil. [And they wil breach the Covenant which I conclu]ded with
 Abraham and with Isaac and with [Jacob. In] those [days] a king wil
 rise up [for the nat]ions, a reviler and he wi l do evil. And in [his] days I
 wi l [stop] Israel from being a people. In his days I wil break the
 kingship of [Egypt] ... Egypt and I wi l break Israel and I wi l deliver them
 to the sword ...
 4Q390, fr. I
 ... [and a]gain [I wi l give them] into the hand of the sons of Aar[on] ...
 seventy years. And the sons of Aaron wil rule over them, but they wil
 not walk [in] my [wa]ys which I command you to testify to them. And
 they wi l also do what is evil in my eyes just as everything the Israelites
 did in the earlier days of their kingship apart from those who return first
 from the land of their captivity to build the Sanctuary. And I wi l speak to
 them and send to them a commandment and they wil understand al
 that they have forsaken, they and their fathers. And from the end of this
 generation in the seventh jubilee of the destruction of the land they wi l
 forget decree, festival, Sabbath and Covenant. And they wi l breach
everything and wi l commit evil in my eyes. And I wil conceal my face
 from them and wil give them into the hand of their enemies and deliver
 [them] to the sword. But I wil cause refugees to remain from among
 them so that [they should] not be an[nih]ilated by my anger [and] when
 [my] fa[ce] is concealed from them. And the angels of hostilities wi l
 rule over them and ... and again they wi l commit evil in [my] eyes and
 they wi l walk in the stub[bornness] of their heart ...
 Fr. 2 i
 I ... and the dominion of Belial wi l be on them to hand them over to the
 sword for a week of yea[rs ... And in] that jubilee, they wi l break al my
 precepts and al my commandments which I wil have commanded
 th[em ... by the hand of] my servants the prophets, and they wi l [start] to
 contend one with another for seventy years from the day of breaking
 the [Law and the] Covenant which they wil break. I wil give them [into
 the hand of the an]gels of Persecutions, and they wi l rule over them,
 and they wil not know and understand that I am furious with them
 because of their transgressions [by which they wi l have for]saken Me
 and wil have done that which is evil in my eyes, and wil have chosen
 that which I do not desire, striving for wealth and gain [and ... , on]e
 stealing that which is his felow’s, and one oppressing another. They
 wi l polute my Sanctuary [profane my sabbaths]; they wil for[ge]t my
 [appoin]ted times and wi l polute their s[ee]d. Their priests wi l act
 violently ...
The New Jerusalem
 (4Q554-5, 5Q15, 1Q32, 2Q24, 4Q232, 11Q18)
 Fragments belonging to an Aramaic writing describing the Jerusalem
 of the eschatological age have been identified in Caves 1 (1Q32), 2
 (2Q24), 4 (4Q554—5), 5 (5Q15) and 11 (11Q18). There are also
 Hebrew fragments listed under 4Q232.
 They are al inspired by Ezekiel xl-xlviii (cf. also Revelation xxi). On
 palaeographical considerations, the manuscripts are thought to date to
 around the turn of the era.
 The visionary responsible for this work accompanies an angelic
 ‘surveyor’ who measures everything in the New Jerusalem, from the
 size of the blocks of houses, the avenues and the streets, to the
 detailed dimensions of rooms, stairs and windows. The dimensions
 are given in ‘reeds’, each of which consists of seven ‘cubits’. But there
 seem to have been two cubits in use as ancient Jewish
 measurements, one approximately 20 inches (52 1 mm), the other 18
 inches (446 mm) long.
 For the editio princeps, see J. T. Milik, DJD, I, 184-93. For smaler
 fragments, see Milik, DJD, I, 134-5; M. Bailet, DJD, I, 84-90; E.
 Puech, Semitica 43-4 (1995), 87-102; DJD, XXXVI. For 1 1Q18, see
 F. García Martinez et al., DJD, XX I, 305-55.
 4Q554, fr. 1
 I . [And they cal this gate Gate of] Simeon ... ... [And they cal this
 gate] Gate of Joseph ... ... [And they cal this gate] Gate of Reuben ...
 I .
 ... [And they] c[al]l [the name of] this (one) [Gate] of Naphtali. And from
this gate he measured to the [eastern] gate 25 [s]tadia. And they cal
 this gate Gate of Asher. And he measu[red from] this [ga]te to the
 eastern corner 25 stadia. vacat And he led me into the city, and he
 measured each block of houses for its length and width, fifty-one reeds
 by fifty-one, in a square a[l]
 5Q15
 I [round] = 357 cubits to each side. A passage surrounds the block of
 houses, a street galery, three reeds = 21 cubits, (wide).
 [He] then [showed me the di]mensions of [al] the blo[cks of houses.
 Between each block there is a street], six reeds = 42 cubits, wide. And
 the width of the avenues running from east to west: two of them are ten
 reeds = 70 cubits, wide. And the third, that to the [lef]t (i.e. north) of the
 Temple, measures eighteen reeds =126 cubits in width. And the wid[th
 of the streets] running from south [to north: t]wo of [them] have nine
 reeds and four cubits = 67 cubits, each street.
 [And the] mid[dle street passing through the mid]dle of the city, its
 [width measures] thirt[een] ree[ds] and one cubit = 92 cubits. And al
 [the streets of the city] are paved with white stone ... marble and jasper.
 [And he showed me the dimensions of the ei]ghty [side-doors]. The
 wid[th of the] side-doors is two reeds, [= 14 cubits, ... Each door has
 tw]o wings of stone. The width of the w[ing] is [one] reed [= 7 cubits.]
 And he showed me [the dimensions] of the twelve [entranc]es. The
 width of their doors are three reeds [= 21] cubits. [Each door has tw]o
 [wings]. The width of the wing is one reed and a half = 10cubits ...
 [And beside each door there are two tow]ers, one to [the r]ight and one
 to the 1[ef]t. Its width [is of the same dimension as] its length, [five
 reeds by five = 35 cubits. The stairs beside] the inside door, on the
 [righ]t side of the towers, [rise] to the top of the to[wers. Their width is
 five cubits. The towers and the stairs are five reeds by five and] five
 cubits = 40 [cubits], on each side of the door.
 [And he showed me the dimensions of the doors of the blocks of
 houses. Their width] is two reeds = 14 cub[its. And the wi]d[th] ... [And
he measured] the wid[th of each th]reshold: two reeds = 14 cubits, [and
 the lintel: one cubit. And he measured above each] threshold i[ts
 win]gs. And he measured beyond the threshold. Its length is [thirteen]
 cubits [and its width ten cubits.]
 [And he] le[d m]e [be]yond the threshold. [And behold] another
 threshold, and a door next to the inner wal [on the right side, of the
 same dimensions as the outer door. Its width] is four [cu]bits, [its]
 height seven [cubits], and it has two wings. And in front of this door
 there is [an entrance threshold. Its width is one reed] = 7 I [cubits]. And
 the l[eng]th of the entrance is two reeds = 14 cubits, and its height is
 two reeds = 14 cubits. [And the door] fa[cing the other do]or opening
 into the block of houses has the same dimensions as the outer door.
 On the left of this entrance, he showed [me] a round [staircase]. Its
 length is of the same dimension as its width: two reeds by two =14
 cubits. The do[ors (of the staircase) facing] the other doors are of the
 same dimensions. And a pilar is inside the staircase around which the
 stairs ri[se]; its width and d[epth are six cubits by six], a square. And
 the stairs which rise beside it, their width is four cubits, and they rise in
 a spiral [to] a height of [two] r[eeds] to [the roof].
 And he led me [into] the block of houses, and he showed me the
 houses there. From one door to the oth[er, there are fifteen: eigh]t on
 one side as far as the corner, and seven from the corner to the other
 door. The length of the house[s is three reed]s = 2[1 cubits, and their
 width], two [reed]s = 14 cubits. Likewise, for al the chambers; [and
 their height is t]wo [reeds] = 1[4] cu[bit]s, [and their doors are in the
 middle.] (Their) width is t[w]o reeds = 1[4] cubits. [And he measured
 the width (of the rooms) in the middle] of the house, and inside the
 upper floor: four [cubits]. Length and height: one reed = 7 cubits.
 [And he showed] me the dimensions of the dining-[hals]. Each has
 [a length] of ninete[en] cubits [and a width] of twelve [cubits]. Each
 contains twenty-two couche[s and ele]ven windows of lattice-work (?)
 above [the couches]. And next to the hal is an outer conduit. [And he
 measured] the ... of the window: its height, two cubits; [its width: ...
 cubits;] and its depth is that of the width of the wal. [The height of the
 inner (aspect of the window) is ... cubits, and that of the outer (aspect),
 ... cubits.]
[And he measured the l]im[it]s of the ... [Their length] is nineteen
 [cubits] and [their] width, [twelve cubits] ...
 11Q18, fr. 20
 [On ever]y seventh day a memor[ial offering of] bread. And they shal
 take the bread outside the Temple to the right of its west side and it
 shal be divided. And I looked until it was divided among the eighty-four
 priests from al the seven divisions of the tables ... the oldest among
 them and fourteen pri[ests] ... priest. Two (loaves) of bread with
 incense [on] them. I looked until one of the two (loaves of) bread was
 given to the High Priest ... with him. And the other was given to his
 deputy who stood near (?) ...
Pseudo-Ezekiela-d
 (4Q385, 386, 385b, 388, 385c)
 An apocryphal work, modeled on the Book of Ezekiel, has survived in
 five Cave 4 manuscripts. It consists of exchanges between God and
 the prophet, who is several times named. The eschatological material
 of 4Q385 includes, among others, Ezekiel’s vision of the dry bones
 and the Chariot passage. On the basis of its script, 4Q385 is dated to
 the late Hasmonaean or early Herodian era, i.e. roughly to mid-first
 century BCE. There is nothing obviously sectarian in the document.
 4Q386 also deals with the vision of the dry bones (Ezek. xxxvii) and the
 future of the land of Israel. 4Q385b is built on Ezekiel’s prophecy
 against Egypt (Ezek. xxx, 1-3) and 4Q388 aludes once more to the dry
 bones and the final battle. 4Q385c consists of seven unidentified
 scraps.
 For the editio princeps, see D. Dimant, DJD, XXX, 7-88. For
 4Q391, unsuitable for translation, see M. Smith, DJD, XIX, 152-93.
 4Q385, fr. 2 (=4Q386, fr. 1 i, 4Q388, fr. 7)
 [‘And they wi l know that I am the Lord] who redeems My people, giving
 them the Covenant.’ vacat [And I said, ‘Lord,] I have seen many from
 Israel who have loved Thy name and walked [in] the ways [of
 righteousness (?), and] when wi l [these] things come to pass? And
 how wil their piety be rewarded?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘I wi l make
 the sons of Israel see and they wi l know that I am the Lord.’ vacat [And
 He said,] ‘Son of man, Prophesy concerning the bones, and say,
 [“Come together, a bone to its bone, and a bit [to its bit.” ’ And] s[o it
came to pas]s. And He said a second time, ‘Prophesy, and let sinews
 come on them, and let skin spread over them above.’ [And] s[o it came
 to pas]s. And He said again, ‘Prophesy concerning the four winds of
 heaven and let the win[ds of heaven] blow [on them and they shal live].’
 And a great crowd of men revived and blessed the Lord of hosts wh[o
 made them live.] And I said, ‘Lord, when wil these things come to
 pass?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘... a tree wi l bend and stand up ...’
 Fr. 3
 ... Lord. And al the people stood up ... [prais]ing the Lord of hosts. I
 also s[pok]e with them ... vacat And the Lord spoke to me: ‘Son of
 [man, Sa]y to them ... [in] their [graves] they shal lie until ... [from] their
 [tom]bs and from the land ...
 Fr.4
 ... instead of my grief rejoice my soul. And the days wi l hasten quickly
 until men wi l say, ‘Are not the days quickening so that the sons of
 Israel may inherit?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘I wi l not tur[n aw]ay your
 face, Ezekiel. Be[hold,] I wi l shorten the days and the year[s] ... a little,
 as you have said to [Me] ... [For] the mouth of the Lord has spoken
 these (words).’ ...
 Fr. 6
 ... the vision that Ezek[iel] saw ... the brightness of the chariot. And four
 living creatures ... [and when advancing they do not turn] back. Every
 living creature walks on two (legs) and [its] two legs ... there was breath
 and their faces are paralel (?). [And the likeness] of the fa[ces: one is
a lion, on]e an eagle, one a calf and one a man. There was [a hand (?)]
 of a man attached to the back of the living creatures and stuck to ...
 and the wh[ee]l[s]. A wheel was attached to another when they
 advanced and from both sides of the wh[eels there were coals of fire]
 and there were in the midst of the coals living creatures like coals of
 fire ... and the wheels and the living creatures and the wheels...
 4Q386, fr. 1 i- i
 I ... [the ear]th and they wi l know that I am the Lord. vacat And He said
 to me: Consider, son of man, the land of Israel. And I said: I have seen
 it, Lord, and behold it is dry. When wilt Thou gather them? The Lord
 said: A son of Belial is planning to oppress my people but I wil not
 permit him. His residue wi l not persist, and from the impure no seed
 shal remain. From the caper no wine wil come nor wil a wasp (?)
 make any honey. And I wil slay the wicked in Memphis and I wil bring
 my sons out of Memphis and turn favourably towards their remnant. As
 they say: There is peace and (quiet?); they also say: The earth is as it
 was in the days of ... [in the days] of old. Then I wi l stir up hea[t] against
 them from [the fo]ur directions of heaven ... devouring fire ...
 I He wil have no mercy on the poor and wil bring them to Babylon.
 Babylon is like a cup in the hand of the Lord, in time He wil cast it
 away....
 4Q385b
 [And these are the wor]ds of Ezekiel. And the word of the Lord came to
 me, sa[ying: ‘Son of man, Prophe]sy and say, Behold the day of
 perdition of the nations is coming ... [Egy]pt and anguish wi l be in Put
 and the sword in E[gypt] ... wi l shake itself and Ethiopia and [Pu]t and
 the powerful of Arabia ... of Arabia wi l fal at the gate[s] of Egypt ...
The Prayer of Nabonidus
 (4Q242)
 While the Book of Daniel (iv) writes of the miraculous recovery of
 Nebuchadnezzar after an ilness which lasted seven years, this
 interesting Aramaic composition te ls a similar story about the last king
 of Babylon, Nabonidus. The principal difference between the two is
 that Nebuchadnezzar was cured by God Himself when he recognized
 His sovereignty, whereas a Jewish exorcist healed Nabonidus by
 teaching him the truth and forgiving his sins. J. T. Milik considers the
 work to be older than Daniel, but a late second or early first-century
 BCE dating seems to be less adventurous (cf. ‘Prière de Nabonide et
 autres écrits d’un cycle de Daniel’, RB 63 (1956), 407-11). Cf. also G.
 Vermes, Jesus the Jew, London, 1973, 67-8.
 For the editio princeps, see J. Colins, DJD, XXI, 83-93.
 The words of the prayer uttered by Nabunai king of the l[and of
 Ba]bylon, [the great] king, [when he was afflicted] with an evil ulcer in
 Teiman by decree of the [Most High God].
 I was afflicted [with an evil ulcer] for seven years ... and an exorcist
 pardoned my sins. He was a Jew from [among the children of the exile
 of Judah, and he said], ‘Recount this in writing to [glorify and exalt] the
 name of the [Most High God’. And I wrote this]:
 ‘I was afflicted with an [evil] ulcer in Teiman [by decree of the Most
 High God]. For seven years [I] prayed to the gods of silver and gold,
 [bronze and iron], wood and stone and clay, because [I believed] that
 they were gods ... ’
Para-Danielic Writings
 (4Q243-5)
 In addition to the Prayer of Nabonidus, Cave 4 has revealed further
 Aramaic remains of a composition akin to the biblical Book of Daniel,
 with three explicit mentions of the name Daniel, who appears to be the
 narrator of the story. Another personality, Balakros, figures in 4Q243.
 J. T. Milik tentatively identified him with the Seleucid ruler Alexander
 Balas, the patron of Jonathan Maccabaeus. One of the fragments of
 4Q245 represents a list of priests, including possibly the Maccabee
 brothers, Jonathan and Simon, and kings. The remaining pieces are
 too smal for translation.
 For the editio princeps, see J. Colins and P. Flint, DJD, XXI, 95
164.
 4Q243, fr. 3 combined with 4Q244
 ... The children of Israel chose themselves rather than [God and they
 sacri]ficed their sons to the demons of idolatry. God was enraged
 against them and determined to surrender them to Nebu[chadnezzar,
 king of Ba]bel and to devastate their land ...
 4Q245, fr. 1, i- i
 ... Daniel ... the book given ...... [Lev]i, Qahat ... Bukki, Uzzi ... [Zado]k,
 Abiathar ... Hi[l]kiah ... Onias, [Jona]than, Simon ... and David,
 Solomon ... Ahazia[h, Joa]sh
The Four Kingdoms
 (4Q552-3)
 Partly overlapping remains of two manuscripts of an Aramaic work
 further testify to the existence of a rich para-Danielic literature. These
 poorly preserved documents alude to the story of the four empires
 (Dan. vii-viii) in the form of a metaphor of four trees.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD,XXXVI (forthcoming).
 4Q552, fr. 1 i
 ... [I saw an angel] I standing on whom light (shone) and four trees
 [stood by] him. And the trees rose and moved away from him. And he
 said to [me: Do you see] this shape? And I said: Yes. I see it and
 consider it. And I saw the tree ... placed.
 And I asked it: What is your name? And it said to me: Babel. And I
 said to it: Are you the one who rules over Persia? And I saw another
 tree ... and I asked it: What is your name? [And it said to me: ... And I
 said to it: Are you the one w[ho rules over a]l the powers of the sea
 and over the ports [and over] ... ? [And I saw] the third tree [and] I said
 to [it: What is your name and why] is your appearance ...
An Aramaic Apocalypse
 (4Q246)
 Surnamed the ‘Son of God fragment’, 4Q246, with its intriguing
 phrases ‘son of God’ and ‘son of the Most High‘, recaling Luke i, 32,
 35, has been in the centre of learned and popular speculation. On
 palaeographical grounds the script is dated to the final decades of the
 first century BCE. Four competing interpretations of the ‘son of God’
 figure have been proposed: the title is to be associated with the
 Seleucid ruler, Alexander Balas (J. T. Milik); it designates a Jewish,
 possibly Hasmonaean, king, with a possible ‘messianic undertone’ in
 the use of ‘son of God’ (J. A. Fitzmyer); the Antichrist (D. Flusser); sti l
 apocalyptica ly, but in a positive sense, F. García Martínez argued in
 favour of an angelic identity, the ‘son of God’ is either the heavenly
 Melchizedek or Michael, the Prince of Light. The editor has decided to
 sit on the fence and applies the title to either the future Davidic
 Messiah or a historical Seleucid pretender.
 The overal message of the fragment recals the apocalyptic section
 of the Book of Daniel. A Daniel-like person, referred to in column 1, is
 to explain to a king seated on a throne a vision or dream aluding to
 wars involving Assyria and Egypt, and the arrival of a final ruler, served
 by al, and caled by them, or designating himself, ‘son of God’. But the
 triumph of peace is not attributed to him - his reign is rather
 characterized by internecine struggle between nations and provinces 
but to the Great God, helping ‘the people of God’ (cf. Dan. vii, 22, 29),
 whose dominion over mankind is declared eternal (cf. Dan. vii, 14) and
 free from the sword.
 Relying mainly on the evidence of the existing text, rather than on
 hypothetical reconstructions of missing passages, I see in the ‘son of
 God’ of 4Q246 neither Flusser’s Antichrist, nor the straight historical
 individual of the Milik-Puech variety, but the last historico-apocalyptic
sovereign of the ultimate world empire who, like his model, Antiochus
 Epiphanes in Dan. xi, 36-7, is expected to proclaim himself and be
 worshipped as a god (see JJS 43, 1992, 301-3).
 For the editioprinceps,see E. Puech, DJD, XXI, 165-84.
 I ... [the spirit of God] dwelt on him, he fel down before the throne ... O
 [K]ing, you are angry for ever and your years ... your vision and al. For
 ever you ... [the gre]at ones. An oppression wi l come to the earth ... a
 great massacre in the provinces ... the king of Assyria [and E]gypt ...
 he wil be great on earth ... wil make and al wil serve ... he wil be
 caled (or: cal himself) [gran]d ... and by his name he wil be
 designated (or: designate himself). I The son of God he wil be
 proclaimed (or: proclaim himself) and the son of the Most High they wi l
 cal him. Like the sparks of the vision, so wi l be their kingdom. They
 wi l reign for years on the earth and they wil trample al. People wil
 trample people (cf. Dan. vii, 23) and one province another province
 vacat until the people of God wi l arise and al wi l rest from the sword.
 Their (the people of God’s) kingdom wil be an eternal kingdom (cf.
 Dan. vii, 27) and al their path wi l be in truth. They wi l jud[ge] the earth
 in truth and al wi l make peace. The sword wil cease from the earth,
 and al the provinces wi l pay homage to them. The Great God (cf. Dan.
 ii, 45) is their helper. He wi l wage war for them. He wil give peoples
 into their hands and al of them (the peoples) He wil cast before them
 (the people of God). Their dominion wi l be an eternal dominion (Dan.
 vii, 14) and al the boundaries of...
Proto-Esther (?)
 (4Q550)
 A number of badly damaged fragments of an Aramaic writing report
 events said to have occurred in the Persian court, thus recaling the
 biblical story of Esther. The script is dated to the second half of the first
 century BCE. J. T. Milik, in a very learned, but equaly conjectural,
 manner, has reconstructed the background of the narrative, even
 restoring the name of Esther from an incomplete word beginning with
 the letters aleph and samekh. He has thus discovered an Aramaic
 model of Esther at Qumran, although no remains of the canonical
 Book of Esther have so far been found there. K. Beyer entitles the
 writing as Documents of Darius and classifies it as a legendary
 account relating to Darius I and Xerxes, kings of Persia, who
 apparently worshipped the God of the Jews.
 For the editio princeps, see E. Puech, DJD, XXXVI (forthcoming).
 See also J. T. Milik, ‘Les modèles araméens du livre d’Esther dans la
 grotte 4 de Qumrân’, RQ 15 (1992), 321-406; K. Beyer, Die
 aramäischen Texte vom Toten Meer. Ergänzungsband (Göttingen,
 1994), 113-17.
 4QProto-Esthera
 ... [and they li]sten to Patireza, your father... and amid the officials of
 the royal apparel ... to work in the service of the king in accordance
 with al that you have received ... In that hour the king could not go to
 sleep (litera ly, his spirit was stretched) [and he commanded that the
 b]ooks of his father be read before him. And among the books there
 was a scrol [the mou]th of which [was] s[ealed] with seven seals by the
signet-ring of his father Darius the heading of which ... [Dar]ius the king
 to the officials of the kingdom, Peace. It was opened and read and in it
 was found: [... Dar]ius the King to the kings who wi l reign after me and
 to the officials of the kingdom, Pe[ac]e. It should be known to you that
 every tormentor and liar ...
 Proto-Estherd
 I The Most High whom you (Jews) fear and worship rules o[ver the
 whole e]arth. Everyone whom He wishes (comes) near. Bagasro ...
 Whoever speaks an evil word against Bagasro [wi l be] put to death for
 there is no-o[ne to destroy h]is good for [e]ver....
List of False Prophets
 (4Q339)
 This is a brief list of false prophets, recorded in Aramaic and
 palaeographicaly Herodian in date. The first six names come from the
 Bible. The last two lines are completed by the editor as ‘[Hananiah son
 of Az]ur’ (Jer. xxviii, 1) and ‘[a prophet from Gib]eon‘, interpreted as the
 continuation of the description of Hananiah (see ibid.). One may object
 to this reconstruction that a l the previous names occupy a single line.
 The name of Yohanan ben Shim’on, i.e. John Hyrcanus I, son of Simon
 Maccabaeus, has been suggested by A. Rofe and E. Qimron.
 Hyrcanus I was thought to have been endowed with prophetic gifts (cf.
 Josephus, Jewish War I, 68-9; Antiquities X I, 300), but the anti
Hasmonaean Qumran sect would have condemned him as a false
 prophet. This identification is distinctly possible, but owing to the
 fragmentary state of the line the reading is purely conjectural.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Broshi and A. Yardeni, DJD, XIX,
 77-9.
 The lying prophets who arose in [Israel: Balaam [son] of Beor (Num.
 xxii-xxiv); [the] elder from Bethel (1 Kgs xiii, 11-31); [Zed]ekiah son of
 Ke[n]aanah (1 Kgs xxii, 11); [Aha]b son of K[o]liah (Jer. xxix, 21);
 [Zed]ekiah son of Ma[a]seiah (ibid.); [Shemaiah the Ne]hlemite (Jer.
 xxix, 24); ... ur; ... ‘on.
List of Netinim
 (4Q340)
 A badly mutilated fragment, dated to the first half of the first century
 BCE, lists the Temple servants or netinim referred to in the biblical
 Books of 1 Chronicles, Ezra and Nehemiah. The text is too broken to
 make good reading, but it proves that such lists were in circulation in
 late Second Temple times.
 For the editio princeps, see M. Broshi and A. Yardeni, DJD, XIX,
 81-4.
 These are the netin[im] who have been identified by [their] na[mes]:
 Ithra and ... To[biah].
H. Misce lanea
 A cut segment from The Copper Scroll
The Copper Scrol
 (3Q15)
 The Copper Scrol (3Q15), which has stimulated much curiosity and
 speculation, was found by archaeologists in Cave 3 during the
 excavations of 1952, but the metal had become so badly oxidized
 during the course of the centuries that the scrol could not be unfolded.
 It was therefore sent to Professor H. Wright Baker of the Manchester
 Colege of Science and Technology who, in 1956, carefuly divided it
 into longitudinal strips and, in the same year, returned it to Jordan. It is
 part of the treasures of the Archaeological Museum of Amman. The
 Hebrew text, representing twelve columns of script, was published by
 J. T. Milik in 1962. It was preceded by a less trustworthy edition by J.
 M. Alegro, The Treasure of the Copper Scro l, London, 1960.
 The inscription lists sixty-four hiding-places, in Jerusalem and in
 various districts of Palestine, where gold, silver, Temple offerings,
 scro ls, etc., are said to have been deposited. Alegro reckoned that
 the treasure amounted to over three thousand talents of silver, nearly
 one thousand three hundred talents of gold, sixty-five bars of gold, six
 hundred and eight pitchers containing silver, and six hundred and
 nineteen gold and silver vessels. In other words, using the post-biblical
 value of the talent as a yard-stick, the total weight of precious metal
 must have added up to sixty-five tons of silver and twenty-six tons of
 gold.
 Who could have possessed such a fortune? Was there ever any
 truth in it?
 The answer is in the negative, according to J. T. Milik. In his view,
 the exaggerated sums indicate that the scrol is a work of fiction and
 that its chief interest to scholars lies in the fields of linguistics and
 topography. He dates it from about 100 CE, thus ruling out any
 connection with the rest of the Qumran writings since the latter were
placed in the caves not later than 68 CE.
 The treasure was a real one according to other scholars,
 representing the fortune of the Essenes (A. Dupont-Sommer, S.
 Goranson) or the Temple treasure (J. M. Alegro, N. Golb, A. Wolters).
 According to Alegro, the Zealots were responsible for the
 concealment of the gold and silver and for the writing of the scrol. It
 has also been suggested that we are dealing here with funds colected
 for the rebuilding of the Temple after 70 CE, or with the hidden
 treasure of Bar Kokhba, leader of the second Jewish revolution
 against Rome in 132-5 CE.
 Milik’s argument would certainly seem to account for the vast
 quantities of treasure mentioned. It does not, however, explain two of
 the document’s most striking characteristics, namely, the dry realism of
 its style, very different from that of ancient legends, and the fact that it
 is recorded on copper instead of on the less expensive leather or
 papyrus. For if it is, in fact, a sort of fairy-story, the present text can only
 represent the outline of such a tale, and who in their senses would
 have engraved their literary notes on valuable metal?
 The contention that the treasure was a real one is supported by the
 very arguments which undermine Milik’s. From the business-like
 approach, and the enduring material on which the catalogue is
 inscribed, it might sensibly be supposed that the writer was not
 indulging some frivolous dream. Again, in view of the fact that the
 Copper Scrol was found among writings known to come from Qumran,
 Dupont-Sommer and Goranson would appear justified in alocating the
 fortune to the Essenes. It requires, by comparison, a strong feat of the
 imagination to accept that al this wealth belonged originaly to the
 treasure chambers of the Temple, and that it was placed in hiding, in a
 hostile environment, in 68 CE, before, that is to say, there was any
 immediate danger to the capital city of Jerusalem. Alegro bypassed
 this objection by presuming that, as Qumran was by then in the hands
 of the Zealots, it was no longer unfriendly to the Jerusalem authorities.
 But it has not yet been explained why the sack of the Temple and city
 should have been foreseen, and provided for, so early. In favour of the
 Temple treasure hypothesis, it is nevertheless possible to envisage
 that the Jerusalem sanctuary possessed such riches as these,
whereas, despite Dupont-Sommer’s undoubtedly true remarks
 concerning the apparent compatibility of religious poverty and fat
 revenues, it is sti l hard to accept that the Essenes, a relatively smal
 community, should have amassed such disproportionate wealth.
 This is al that can safely be said of the Copper Scrol at the present
 time. Further study of the original wi l a low scholars to improve many of
 the readings. Meanwhile students of Qumran are considerably in J. T.
 Milik’s debt for his pioneering decipherment of an extremely difficult
 text.
 For the editio princeps, see J. T. Milik, DJD, I, 199-302.
 Further works to consult: A. Dupont-Sommer, The Essene Writings
 from Qumran, Oxford, 1961, 379-93; N. Golb, ‘The Problem of Origin
 and Identification of the Dead Sea Scrols’, Proceedings of the
 American Philosophical Society 124 (1980), 1-24; S. Goranson,
 ‘Sectarianism, Geography and the Copper Scrol’, JJS 43(1992), 282
7; A. Wolters, ‘The Copper Scrol and the Vocabulary of Mishnaic
 Hebrew’, RQ14 (1989-90), 483-95; ‘Literary Analysis of the Copper
 Scrol’, in Z. J. Kapera, ed., Intertestamental Essays in Honour of J. T.
 Milik, vol. 1, Cracow, 1992, 239-54; The Copper Scrol. Overview,
 Text and Translation, Sheffield, 1996; ‘Copper Scrol’, in
 Encyclopedia of the Dead Sea Scrols, ed. L. H. Schiffman and J. C.
 VanderKam, Oxford and New York, 2000, 144-8.
 Col. I
 1. A Horebbah which is in the Vale of Achor under the stairs which
 go eastwards forty cubits: a box (fi led with) silver weighing in al
 seventeen talents. KEN.
 2. In the tomb of... the third: 100 gold bars.
 3. In the great cistern which is in the courtyard of the little
 colonnade, at its very bottom, closed with sediment towards the
 upper opening: nine hundred talents.
 4. At the hil of Kohlit, containers, sandalwood and ephods
 (priestly garments). The total of the offering and of the treasure:
 seven (talents?) and second tithe rendered unclean. At the exit
 of the canal on the northern side, six cubits towards the cavity of
immersion. XAΓ
 5. In the hole of the waterproofed refuge, in going down towards
 the left, three cubits above the bottom: forty talents of silver.
 Col. I
 6. In the cistern of the esplanade which is under the stairs; forty
two talents. HN
 7. In the cave of the old Washer’s House, on the third platform:
 sixty-five gold bars. ΘE
 8. In the underground cavity which is in the courtyard of the House
 of Logs, where there is a cistern: vessels and silver, seventy
 talents.
 9. In the cistern which is against the eastern gate, which is fifteen
 cubits away, there are vessels in it. 10. And in the canal which
 (ends) in it: ten talents. ΔI
 11. In the cistern which is under the wal on the eastern side, at the
 sharp edge of the rock: six silver bars; its entrance is under the
 large paving-stone.
 12. In the pond which is east of Kohlit, at a northern angle, dig four
 cubits: twenty-two talents.
 Col. I
 13. In the courty[ard of] ... in southerly direction [at] nine cubits:
 silver and gold vessels of offering, bowls, cups, tubes, libation
 vessels. In a l, six hundred and nine.
 14. In the other, easterly direction dig sixteen cubits: 40 tal. of
 silver. TP
 15. In the underground cavity of the esplanade on its northern
 side: vessels of offering, garments. Its entrance is in the
 westerly direction.
 16. In the tomb on the north-east of the esplanade three cubits
 under the trap(?): 13 tal.
 Col. IV
 17. In the great cistern which is in the ... , in the pilar on its
 northern side: 14 tal[ents]. °K
18. In the canal which goes [towards ... ] when you enter for[ty-o]ne
 cubits: 55 tal. of silver.
 19. Between the two tamarisk trees in the Vale of Akhon, in their
 midst dig three cubits. There there are two pots ful of silver.
 20. In the red underground cavity at the mouth of the ‘Aslah: 200
 tal. of silver.
 21. In the eastern underground cavity at the north of Kokhlit: 70 tal.
 of silver.
 22. In the heap of stones of the valey of Sekhakha dig (...) cubits:
 12 tal. of silver.
 Col. V
 23. At the head of the water conduit ... [at] Sekhakha, on the
 northern side under the large ... dig [thr]ee cub[its]: 7 tal. of
 silver.
 24. In the split which is in Sekhakha in the east of the reservoir of
 Solomon; vessels of offering.
 25. Quite close to them above the canal of Solomon sixty cubits
 towards the great stone dig three cubits: 23 tal. of silver.
 26. In the tomb which is in the wadi of Kippah (going) from Jericho
 to Sekhakha, at its entry from Jericho to Sekhakha, dig seven
 cubits: 32 tal.
 Col. VI
 27. [In] the eastward-looking cave of the Pi lar with two entrances,
 dig at the northern entrance three [c]ubits; there is a pitcher
 there, in it a book, under it 22 tal.
 28. In the eastward-looking cave of the base of the Stone dig nine
 cubits at the entrance: 21 tal.
 29. In the Dweling of the Queen on the western side dig twelve
 cubits: 27 tal.
 30. In the heap of stones which is at the Ford of the High Priest
 Col. V I dig nine [cubits]: 22 ... tal.
 31. In the water conduit of Q ... [the grea]ter northern reservoir, in
 the four direc[tions] measure out twenty-[fo]ur cubits: four
hundred talents.
 32. In the nearby cave in the proximity of Bet ha-Qos dig six
 cubits: six silver bars.
 33. At Doq under the eastern corner of the guard-post dig seven
 cubits: 22 tal.
 34. At the mouth of the water exit of Koziba dig three cubits
 towards the rock: 60 tal., two talents of gold.
 Col. V I
 35. [In the wa]ter conduit on the road east of Bet Ahsor, which is
 east of Ahzor, vessels of offering and books and a bar of
 sil[ver].
 36. In the outside valey ... at the stone dig seventeen cubits
 underneath: 17 tal. of gold and silver.
 37. In the heap of stones at the mouth of the Pottery ravine dig
 three cubits: 4 tal.
 38. In the westward-looking stubble-field of ha-Sho, on the south
 side, at the underground chamber looking northwards dig
 twenty-four cubits: 66 tal.
 39. In the irrigation of ha-Sho, at the stone sign in it, dig eleven
 cubits: 70 tal. of silver.
 Col. IX
 40. At the ‘dovecot’ (smal opening?) at the exit of ha-Notef,
 measure out from its exit thirteen cubits, two tusks and, on
 seven smooth stones, bars (corresponding to) four staters.
 41. At ‘Violet-scarlet’ over (past?) the eastward-looking
 underground chamber dig eight cubits ... (?): 23½.
 42. In the underground chambers of Horon, in the seaward-looking
 underground chamber in the narrow part (?) dig sixteen cubits:
 22 tal.
 43. At Qob‘ah a large amount of money offerings (?).
 44. At the ‘sound of waters’ (waterfal) close to the edge of the
 gutter on the east side of the exit dig seven cubits: 9 tal.
 45. In the underground cavity on the north side of the mouth of the
 gorge of Bet Tamar in the parched land of ... (?), al that is in it
is herem (= devoted to the Temple).
 46. At the ‘dovecot’ which is at Mesad, at the [water] conduit,
 Col. X southward at the second stair descending from the top: 9 tal.
 47. In the cistern next to the canals fed by the Great Wadi, at the
 bottom: 12 tal.
 48. At the reservoir which is in Bet Kerem going to the left of ten
 notches: sixty-two talents of silver.
 49. At the pond of the valey of ‘YK (?) on its western side is a
 ma’ah coin coupled with two ma‘ahs. This is the entrance: three
 hundred talents of gold and twenty pitched vessels.
 50. Under the ‘Hand’ (= Monument) of Absalom on the western
 side dig twelve notches: 80 tal.
 51. At the pond of the privy of Siloa under the watering-trough: 17
 tal.
 52. [At ... ] in the four
 Col. XI angles: gold and vessels of offering.
 53. Next to them under the corner of the southern portico at the
 tomb of Zadok under the pilar of the covered hal: vessels of
 offering of resin and offering of senna.
 54. Next to them at the ... (?) at the top of the westward-looking
 rock towards the garden of Zadok under the great closing stone
 which is at the conduit: devoted things.
 55. In the tomb which is under the galeries (?): 40 tal.
 56. In the tomb of the Sons of ... (?) the Yerahite, in it: vessels of
 offering of cedar, offering of resin.
 57. Next to them, at Bet-Eshdatain (Bethesda), in the reservoir
 where you enter the smal pool: vessels of offering of aloes,
 offering of ... (?)
 58. Next to them, at the western entrance of the tomb is a channel
 over ... nine hundred [tal. of silver]
 Col. X I 5 tal. of gold.
 59. Sixty talents at its entrance from the west under the black
 stone.
60. Near to them under the threshold of the sepulchral chamber:
 42 tal.
 61. On Mount Gerizim under the stairs of the higher underground
 cavity a box and its contents and 60 tal. of silver.
 62. At the mouth of the spring of Bet-Sham vessels of silver and
 vessels of gold of offering and silver. In a l, six hundred talents.
 63. In the great underground duct of the sepulchral chamber
 towards the house of the sepulchral chamber. The whole
 weighing 71 talents and twenty minas.
 64. In the underground cavity which is in the smooth rock north of
 Kohlit whose opening is towards the north with tombs at its
 mouth there is a copy of this writing and its explanation and the
 measurements and the details of each item.
Cryptic Texts
 (4Q249, 250, 313)
 A large number of minute papyrus fragments written in a cryptic script
 have been assembled under the tide 4Q249. The editor, S. J. Pfann,
 has subdivided them into several units, the most important of which are
 The Midrash on the Book ofMoses(4Q249) and the cryptic Messianic
 Rule (4Q249a-i) reconstructed on the basis of 1QSa. The remainder
 (4Q249j-z; 250a-j; 313a-b) are mostly unidentified. The pieces are so
 smal that they possess no independent significance. Even in the case
 of twenty-two fragments of the Messianic Rule the reconstruction
 presumes that the text of the Cave 1 manuscript is ‘canonical’. Should
 it, like most other Qumran manuscripts, lack definite wording, the
 placement of the unconnected tiny scraps would become uncertain.
 The dating of the script of the Messianic Rule to the middle of the
 second century BCE is also highly questionable. It cannot have been
 written before the Community Rule and the Damascus Document and
 very likely belongs to the mid-first century BCE.
 For the editio princeps, see S. J. Pfann, DJD, XXXV, 1-24; DJD,
 XXXVI, 515-701.
 4Q249 i
 (The letters in italics indicate the surviving text. The rest is hypothetical
 reconstruction. The examples below are meant to i lustrate the nature
 of the conjectures. The presumed subject is leprosy and the cleansing
 of garments and of the house; cf. Leviticus xiv.)
[As it is written,] And he went down (in) the house [of the king to the
 secretary’s chamber (Jer. xxxvi, 12?)... F]or the [greenish and reddish]
 cavities (?) . from under the [greenish or reddish (?)] ... [and after]
 being scraped in it to b[ring them out from the city] . from the house
 . [the dust and] the sto[ne]s and the [wood] ... [after] removing the
 [stones] ... [the plague-spot has returned] to the house and demolish
 [the house] ... [al]l without [plague-spot] in [it] ... one [judge]ment ...
 [As it is written: the fish that is in the riv]er wi l die (Ex. vii, 18?) in ...
 4Q249a, fr. 1 (= 1QSa i, 4-8)
 [coming from little children] t[o women, and they shal read into their
 ears al the precepts of the Covena]nt and to ex[pound to them al their
 statutes that they may no longer stray in their err]ors. And [this is the
 Rule for al the host of the congregation, for every] na[tive] in I[srael.
 From his youth they shal inst]ru[ct him] in the B[ook of Meditation and
 according to his age they shal make him understand the precepts of
 the Coven]a[nt. And he shal receive his discipline in their judgements
 for ten] years
Two Qumran Ostraca
 In the spring of 1996 two Hebrew ostraca were found by Professor
 James F. Strange of the University of South Florida. They were
 discovered in the base of the eastern face of the wal separating the
 community centre from the cemetery. The script is dated to the first
 century CE.
 For the editio princeps, see F. M. Cross and E. Eshel, DJD, XXXVI,
 497-508.
 96
 Ostracon no. 1
 1. In year two of the [...]
 2. in Jericho, Honi son of [ ] gave
 3. to ‘El’azar son of Nahmani [ ]
 4. Hisday from Holon [ ]
 5. from this day to perpetui[ty]
 6. the boundaries of the house and [ ]
 7. and the fig trees, the ol[ive tree (?), and ]
 8. when he fulfi led (his oath) to the Community (?) [ ]
 9. and Honi [ ]
 10. to him His[day (?) ]
 11. and the [ ]
 12. And into the hand of [ ]
 13. [ ]
 14. Hisday servant of H[oni (?) ]
 15. Holon
 The text documents the gift of a slave, together with an estate and
 produce. Reference is made to fulfi ling an oath, or a period of time as
 a neophyte, to the Yahad in line 8, using the term kml(‘)wtw lyhd, ‘when
 he fulfi led (his oath) to the Community’. This terminology resembles
that of the Community Rule (1QS vi), and as such may hint that this
 ostracon is a draft of an accounting (heshbon) of the Overseer.
 97 The
 proposed reading, especialy in lines 4 and 8, has been queried by
 various scholars, Ada Yardeni among them (‘A Draft Deed on an
 Ostracon from Khirbet Qumran‘, IEJ 47 (1997), 233-7). According to
 Yardeni, instead of ‘Hisday from Holon’ (’t Hsdy mHwln) one should
 read ‘these sackcloths’ (’t hsqym h lw), and instead of ‘when he fulfi led
 (his oath) to the Community’ (wkmlwtw lyhd), ‘and every other tree’
 (wkwl ’yln ‘hr). The damaged cursive script of the ostracon being what
 it is, Ada Yardeni’s readings are perfectly possible. Nevertheless
 ‘sackcloths’ at the head of a list of valuable gifts is quite out of place.
 Also, whereas the editors’ yhd (Community) is questionable, their
 interpretation regarding the handing-over of personal property to the
 sect is supported by the absence of any indication of family
 relationship between the donor and recipient. Normaly, a free gift, i.e.
 with no exchange of money, presupposes close family links, for
 example a gift from father to daughter.
 Ostracon no. 2
 A second ostracon, written by a different hand of the same period,
 reads:
 1. (?)
 2. (?)
 3. [Jose]ph son of Nathna[el...]
 4. his [s]ons from ‘En Gedi(?)
I. Appendix
 Scroll Catalogue
 Perhaps the greatest disservice rendered to scholarship by Roland de
 Vaux and his successors resulted from their obstinate refusal to
 release the list of the unpublished texts from Caves 4 and 11.
 ‘Outsiders’ were not only denied access to them but were not even
 alowed to know what exactly they were not permitted to see! We had
 to wait until the spring of 1992 for Emanuel Tov, editor-in-chief of the
 Dead Sea Scrols Publication Project since 1990, to correct this
 injustice by releasing the long-awaited ‘secrets’ and publishing them,
 at my invitation, in the Journal of Jewish Studies. Here folows a
 complete inventory of the manuscripts and fragments discovered in the
 eleven Qumran caves together with source references for al the
 published texts.1 For the final list of a l the manuscript finds at Qumran,
 the other Judaean caves, Wadi Daliyeh, Khirbet Mird and Masada,
 see E. Tov, DJD, XXXLX, 27-114.
 NB. A list of the abbreviations used appears on pp. 91-2.
 CAVE 1


CAVE 2
 CAVE 3
CAVE 4









CAVE 5
 CAVE 6
CAVE 7
CAVE 8
 CAVE 9
 CAVE 10
 CAVE 11
QUMRAN TEXTS OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN
QUMRAN OSTRACA
 I. 
The siglum DJD designates the series Discoveries in the
 JudaeanDesert published by Clarendon Press, Oxford. The folowing
 volumes have appeared so far:
 I. D. Barthélemy and J. T. Milik, Qumran Cave I (1955).
 I. P. Benoit, J. T. Milik and R. de Vaux, Les gro tes de Murabba‘at
 (1961).
 I. M. Bailet, J. T. Milik and R. de Vaux, Les petites gro tes de
 Qumrân (1962).
 IV. J. A. Sanders, The Psalms Scro l of Qumran Cave I (1965).
 V. J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, Qumran Cave 4, 1 (4Q158
4Q186) (1968).
 VI. R. de Vaux and J. T. Milik, Qumrân Grote 4, 11: 1.
 Archéologie. 11. Tefi lin, Mezuzot et Targum (4Q128-4Q157)
 (1977).
 VI. M. Bailet, Qumrân Gro te 4, I(4Q482-4Q520) (1982).
 V I. E. Tov, The Greek Minor Prophets from Nahal Hever (1990).
 IX. P. W. Skehan, E. Ulrich and J. E. Sanderson, Qumran Cave 4,
 IV:Palaeo-Hebrew and Greek Biblical Manuscripts(1992).
 X. E. Qimron and J. Strugnel, Qumran Cave 4, V:Miqsat
 Ma’aseHa-Torah (1994).
 XI. E. Eshel et al., Qumran Cave 4, VI:Poetical and Liturgical
 Texts, Part 1 (1998).
 XI. Eugene Ulrich, F. M. Cross et al., Qumran Cave 4, VI:
 Genesis to Numbers (1994).
 X I. H. Attridge et al., Qumran Cave 4, V I: Parabiblical Texts,
 Part I (1994; in fact 1995).
 XIV. Eugene Ulrich and F. M. Cross, Qumran Cave 4,
 IX:Deuteronomy,Joshua,Judges, Kings (1996).
XV. E. Ulrich et al., Qumran Cave 4, X: The Prophets (1997).
 XVI. E. Ulrich et al., Qumran Cave 4, XI: Psalms to Chronicles
 (2000).
 XVI. F. M. Cross et al., Qumran Cave 4, XI: 1-2 Samuel
 (forthcoming).
 XV I. J. M. Baumgarten, Qumran Cave 4, X I, The Damascus
 Document (4Q266- 4Q273) (1996).
 XIX. M. Broshi et al., Qumran Cave 4, XIV:Parabiblical Texts,
 Part I (1995).
 XX. T. Elgvin et al., Qumran Cave 4, XV:Sapiential Texts, Part I
 (1997).
 XXI. S. Talmon et al., Qumran Cave 4, XVI: Calendrical Texts
 (2001).
 XXI. G. Brooke et al., Qumran Cave 4, XVI: Parabiblical Texts,
 Part I (1996).
 XX I. F. García Martinez et al., Qumran Cave I, I:11Q2-18,
 11Q20-30 (1998).
 XXIV. M. J. W. Leith, Wadi Daliyeh 1: Wadi Daliyeh Seal
 Impressions (1997).
 XXV. E. Puech, Qumrân Grote 4, XV I: Textes hébreux (4Q521
528, 4Q576-579) (1998).
 XXVI. P. Alexander and G. Vermes, Qumran Cave 4,
 XIX:4QSerekh Ha-Yabad and Two Related Texts (1998).
 XXVI. H. Cotton and A. Yardeni, Aramaic, Hebrew and Greek
 Documentary Texts from Nahal Hever and Other Sites, with
 an Appendix Containing A leged Qumran Texts (The Seiyâl
 Colection) (1997).
 XXV I. D. M. Gropp, Wadi Daliyeh I: The Samaria Papyri from
 Wadi Daliyeh. E. Schuler et al., Qumran Cave 4, XXV I:
 Misce lanea, Part 2 (2001).
 XXIX. E. Chazon et al., Qumran Cave 4, XX: Poetical and
 Liturgical Texts, Part 2 (1999).
 XXX. D. Dimant, Qumran Cave 4, XXI:Parabiblical Texts, Part 4:
 Pseudo-Prophetic Texts (2001).
 XXXI. E. Puech, Qumran Cave 4, XXI: Textes araméens,
 première partie: 4Q529-549 (2001).
XXXI. P. W. Flint and E. Ulrich, Qumran Cave I, I:The Isaiah
 Scro ls (forthcoming).
 XXX I. D. Pike and A. Skinner, QumranCave 4, XX I:
 Unidentified Fragments (2001).
 XXXIV. J. Strugnel et al., Qumran Cave 4, XXIV: 4Q Instructions:
 4Q415f. (1999).
 XXXV. 
J. 
Baumgarten 
XXV:HalakhicTexts (1999).
 et al., 
Qumran Cave 4,
 XXXVI. S. Pfann, Cryptic Texts; P. Alexander et al., Qumran
 Cave 4, XXVI:Miscelanea, PartI (2000).
 XXXVI. E. Puech, Qumran Cave 4, XXVI:Textes araméens,
 deuxième partie: 4Q550-575,580-582 (forthcoming).
 XXXV I. J. Charlesworth et al., Misce laneous Texts from the
 Judaean Desert (2000).
 XXXIX. E. Tov et al., The Texts from the Judaean Desert:
 Indices and an Introduction (2002).
 2. Frs. 19-21 have been identified as belonging to Jubilees by M.
 Kister, RQ 12 (1985-7), 529-36.
 3 and 4. The latest views are that 7Q4, 7Q8 and 7Q11-14 represent
 remains of chapters 100 and 103 of the Greek version of the Book of
 Enoch. Cf. E. A. Muro Jr., RQ 18 (1997), 307-12; E. Puech, RQ 18
 (1997), 313-23.
Index of QumranTexts
 Figures in bold indicate the classification of fragments; other figures
 are page numbers.
 IQS
 I
 I, 11-12
 I, 24- I, 1
 I- I, 11
 I-IV
 I
 I, 4-7
 I, 19
 I, 21-23
 I
 I, 1
 I, 4-5
 I, 9
 I, 12-IV, 25
 IV
 IV, 4-6
 IV, 18
 IV, 21
 V
 V, 1
 V, 1-20
 V, 1-VI, 7
 V-IX
 V-XI
VI
 VI, 7-10
 VI, 14
 VI, 15
 VI, 16
 VI, 16-17
 VI, , 18
 VI, , 20
 VI-V I
 VI
 VI, 3-4
 VI, 4
 VI, 9-10
 VI, 10-12
 VI, 13
 VI, 13-14
 VI, 14-15
 VI, 15-16
 VI, 17
 VI, 17-18
 VI, 18-19
 VI
 VI, 20-21
 VI, 20-V I, 10
 VI, 23
 VI, 24-IX, 10, 15
 V I
 V I, 1
 V I, 1-9
 V I, 11-10
 V I, 4-IX, 11
 V I, 5
V I, 6
 V I, 6-21
 V I, 9
 V I, 11-15
 V I, 15
 V I, 15b-IX,11
 IX
 IX, 11
 IX, 12
 IX, 15-X, 3
 IX, 25
 IX-XI
 X
 X, 4-12
 X, 9
 X, 12-18
 X-XI
 XI
 XI,
 XI, 14-15
 1Qsa
 1Qsa, i
 1QSb
 V, 20-29
 IQH
 I- I
 IV-XX I
 fr. 7
 fr. 8
 frs 46, 55, 56
 IQM
 I
 I
I
 IV
 V
 VI
 VI
 V I
 IX
 X
 XI
 XI
 X I
 XIV
 XV
 XV-XIX
 XVI
 XVI
 XV I
 XIX
 IQapGen
 IQpHab
 IQ-3Q
 IQI4
 1Q15
 1Q16
 1Q17-18
 1Q19
 fr. 1
 fr. 3
 frs 13-14
 1Q19 bis
 1Q20
 1Q21
1Q22
 1Q23-4
 1Q26
 1Q27
 1Q28a
 1Q28b
 1Q29
 1Q32
 1Q33
 1Q34, 34 bis
 1Q35
 1Q36
 1Q37-40
 2Q19-20
 2Q21
 2Q22
 2Q24
 2Q26
 3Q4
 3Q15
 4QD
 4QMMT, B 58-9
 4QpIsa
 4Qproto-Esther
 4QSd
 4QSe
 4Q fragments
 4Q88
 VII-VIII
 IX-X
 4Q119
 4Q119-22
 4Q120
fr. 20
 4Q212
 4Q122
 4Q126
 4Q127
 4Q156
 fr. 1
 fr. 2 .
 4Q156-7
 4Q157
 4Q158
 frs I-2
 4Q159
 frs 2-4
 4Q160
 fr. 1
 frs 3-5
 4Q161
 frs 5-6
 frs 8-10
 4Q161-4
 4Q161-5
 4Q162
 4Q163
 4Q164
 4Q166
 4Q166-7
 4Q167
 fr. 2
 frs 7-9
 4Q168
 4Q169
frs 1-2
 4Q170
 4Q171
 4Q172
 4Q173
 4Q174
 4Q175
 4Q176
 4Q177
 frs 7, 9, 10-11 20, 26
 4Q179
 fr. 2
 4Q180
 4Q181
 4Q182
 4Q183
 4Q184
 4Q185
 4Q186
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 4Q196
 fr. 2
 fr. 6
 fr. 13
 fr. 14 i
 fr. 14 i
 fr. 17
 fr. 18
 4Q196-9
 4Q196-200
 4Q197
 fr. 4
fr. 5
 4Q198, fr. 1
 4Q200
 fr. 2
 fr. 4
 fr. 6
 fr. 7
 4Q20112
 4Q203
 4Q204
 4Q206
 fr. 1 xx i
 fr. 1 xxvi
 4Q208
 4Q209
 fr. 7
 4Q213, fr. 1
 4Q213-14
 4Q213a
 4Q213b
 4Q214, fr. 2
 4Q214a
 fr. 1
 frs 2-3
 4Q214b, frs 2-6
 4Q215
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 4Q215a
 fr. 1 i
 4Q216
 4Q216-28
4Q217
 4Q218
 4Q219
 4Q220
 fr. 1
 4Q221
 4Q222
 4Q223-4
 4Q225
 fr. 2
 4Q225-7
 4Q226
 fr. 7
 4Q227
 fr. 2
 4Q228
 4Q232
 4Q242
 4Q243,fr. 3
 4Q243-5
 4Q244
 4Q245
 frs 1 i-ii
 4Q246
 4Q247
 4Q248
 fr. 15
 4Q249
 4Q249a-h
 4Q249a-i
 4Q249j-z
 4Q249a, fr. 1
 4Q249 i
4Q250
 4Q250a-j
 4Q251
 frs 1-2
 frs 4-7
 fr. 8
 fr. 9
 fr. 16
 fr. 17
 4Q252
 fr.1
 4Q252-4
 4Q252 ii
 4Q253
 fr. 1
 fr. 3
 4Q253a
 4Q254
 fr. 1
 frs 5-6
 4Q254a, fr. 3
 4Q255
 4Q255-64
 4Q256
 4Q257
 4Q258
 4Q259
 4Q264a
 4Q265
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
fr. 4
 fr. 6
 fr. 7
 fr. 7 i
 4Q265-73
 4Q266
 frs 1 a-b
 fr. 2
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 5
 fr. 6
 fr. 6 i
 fr. 6 i-iv
 fr. 8 i
 fr. 9 i
 fr. 10
 fr. 11
 4Q266-73
 4Q267
 fr. 1
 fr. 5 i
 fr. 9 iv
 fr. 9 v
 4Q268
 fr. 1
 4Q269
 fr. 4
 fr. 8 i- i
 fr. 11 i- i
 4Q270
 fr. 3
 fr. 3 i- i
 fr. 3 i
fr. 7
 fr. 7 i- i
 4Q271
 fr. 2
 4Q272, fr. 1
 4Q273
 fr. 2,
 fr. 4 i
 fr. 4 i
 4Q274
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 2 i
 frs 3 i- i
 4Q275
 4Q276
 4Q277
 4Q279
 4Q280
 fr. 2
 4Q284, fr. 1
 4Q285
 fr. 1
 fr. 4
 fr. 7
 fr. 8
 4Q286
 fr. 1a i
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
 fr. 5
 fr. 7a i
 4Q286-7
4Q286-90
 4Q287
 fr. 3
 fr. 6
 fr. 10
 4Q288
 4Q298
 frs 1-2 i
 frs 3-4 i
 4Q299
 fr. 1
 fr. 2i
 fr. 3a
 4Q299-301
 4Q300
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 1a
 fr. 5
 4Q301, fr. 1
 4Q302
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 3 i
 4Q306
 4Q313
 4Q313a-b
 4Q317
 4Q318
 4Q319
 frs 1-3
 frs 2-5, 9, 23
 frs 5-8
 4Q320
 fr. 1 i
fr. 2
 fr. 3 i
 fr. 4
 fr. 4 i
 4Q320-30
 4Q321
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
 frs 4-5
 fr. 4
 fr. 5
 4Q321a
 4Q322
 4Q325
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 4Q326
 4Q328
 4Q331
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 1 i
 4Q331-3
 4Q332
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
 4Q333, fr. 1
 4Q334
 frs 2-4
 4Q339
 4Q340
 4Q364, fr. 3
4Q364-7
 4Q365
 fr. 6a i
 fr. 6b
 fr. 6c
 fr. 23
 4Q365a
 4Q369
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 frs 3-9
 4Q370
 4Q371-3
 4Q372
 fr. 1
 fr. 3
 4Q373
 frs 1-2
 fr. 19
 4Q374
 fr. 2
 4Q374-7
 4Q375
 fr. 1
 4Q376
 fr. 1
 4Q377
 fr. 2 i
 4Q378
 fr. 6 i
 fr. 11
 fr. 14
 fr. 22 i584
4Q379
 fr. 1
 fr. 12
 fr. 17
 fr. 22
 fr. 22 i
 4Q380
 fr .i
 fr. 2
 40380-81
 4Q381
 fr. 1
 fr. 15
 fr. 17
 fr. 24
 fr. 31
 fr. 33
 fr. 45
 fr. 46
 fr. 69
 frs 76-7
 4Q382
 fr. 104
 4Q383
 4Q384
 4Q385
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
 fr. 4
 fr. 6
 4Q385a
 fr. 4
fr. 5
 fr. 18
 4Q385b
 4Q385c
 4Q386
 fr. 1
 frs 1 i- i
 4Q387
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 3
 4Q387a
 4Q388
 fr. 7
 4Q388a
 fr. 7
 fr. 7 i
 4Q389
 4Q390
 fr. 1
 fr. 2 i
 4Q391
 4Q392
 fr. 1
 frs 2, 5
 4Q393
 4Q394
 frs 1-2
 frs 3-7 i
 frs 3-7 i
 fr. 8 i
 fr. 8 iv
 4Q394-9
4Q395
 4Q396
 frs. 1-2 i
 frs. 1-2 ii
 frs. 1-2 iii
 frs. 1-2 iv
 4Q397
 frs. 1-2
 fr. 3
 fr. 5
 frs 6-13
 frs 14-21
 4Q398
 frs 1-3
 frs. 11-13
 frs. 14-17 i
 frs 14-17 ii
 4Q399
 4Q400
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 2
 4Q400-407
 4Q401, fr. 14
 4Q402,fr. 4
 4Q403
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 1 ii
 4Q404-5
 4Q405
 frs. 14-15 i
 fr. 19
 fr. 20 ii
fr. 23 i
 fr. 23 i
 4Q408
 fr. 3
 fr. 3a
 4Q412423
 fr. 1
 4Q413
 4Q414
 fr. 2 i
 4Q415
 4Q415-18
 4Q416
 fr. 1
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 4
 4Q417
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 2 i
 fr. 5
 4Q418
 fr. 2
 fr. 8
 frs 9-10
 fr. 10
 frs. 43-45 i
 fr. 55
 fr. 69
 fr. 81
 fr.103 i
4Q418a
 4Q418b
 4Q420, fr. 1
 4Q42-21
 4Q421
 fr. 1
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 1a i
 4Q422
 4Q423
 frs 1-2
 fr. 5
 fr. 8
 4Q424
 fr. 1
 fr. 3
 4Q427-32
 4Q431, fr. 1
 4Q433a, fr. 2
 4Q434
 fr. 1
 fr. 1 i
 fr. 2
 fr. 7b
 4Q434-5
 4Q434-8
 4Q435, fr. 1
 4Q436
 4Q437,fr. 2 i
 4Q439
 fr. 1 i
 4Q444
frs 1-4 i
 4Q448
 4Q462
 4Q462-4
 4Q463
 4Q464
 4Q468e
 4Q470
 fr. 1
 fr. 3
 4Q471
 4Q471a
 4Q471b
 4Q473
 4Q475
 4Q477
 fr. 2
 4Q481a
 fr. 2
 4Q482(?)
 4Q491
 frs 11-3
 fr. 11
 4Q491-7
 4Q492
 4Q493
 4Q497
 4Q501
 4Q502
 4Q503
 frs 7-9
 fr. 11
 4Q504
fr. 3
 fr. 4
 fr. 6
 fr. 8 recto
 4Q504-6
 4Q507,fr. 1
 4Q507-9
 4Q508
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 fr. 3
 4Q509
 fr. 3
 fr. 132
 4Q51O
 4Q510-11
 4Q511
 fr. 1 451-2
 fr. 2
 fr. 8
 fr. 18
 frs 28-9
 fr. 30
 fr. 35
 fr. 63
 fr. 63-4
 4Q512
 fr. 11
 frs 29-32
 frs 42-44 i
 4Q513
 frs 11-2
frs 2-4
 4Q513-14
 4Q514
 4Q521
 fr. 2
 fr. 7
 4Q522
 fr. 9
 4Q523
 4Q524
 4Q525
 fr. 2
 fr. 5
 fr. 14 ii
 4Q529
 4Q530, frs 2, 6-12
 4Q530-33
 4Q531, fr. 22
 4Q534
 fr. 7
 4Q534-6
 4Q536
 4Q537
 fr. 12
 4Q537-41
 4Q538-9
 4Q540-41
 4Q541
 fr. 9
 fr. 24 ii
 4Q542
 4Q543
 fr. 1
4Q543-9
 4Q543a
 4Q544
 fr. 1
 fr. 2
 4Q545
 4Q546
 4Q546d
 4Q547
 4Q548
 4Q549
 4Q550
 4Q552, fr. 1 ii
 4Q552-3
 4Q554, fr. 1
 4Q554-5
 4Q561
 5Q9
 5Q11
 5Q12
 5Q13
 5Q15
 6Q8
 6Q15
 6Q19
 6Q23
 7Q1
 7Q1-2
 7Q2
 7Q3-19
 7Q4
 7Q5
7Q6
 7Q7
 7Q8
 7Q10
 7Q15
 11Q
 11Q5
 11Q1O
 11Q11
 11Q12
 11Q213
 frs 1-4
 11Q14
 11Q17
 vii
 viii
 11Q18
 fr. 20
 11Q19-20
 11Q19-21
 11Q20
 11Q29
 11QT
 I
 II
 III-XII
 V, 16-18
 XIII-LXVII
 XVII, 11
 XXXVIII, 4-15
 XLV, 11-12
 LII, 17-18
 LVIII, 16-18
LXIV, 6-13
 LXVI, 15-17
 CD
 I
 I,1
 I
 I, 1
 I
 IV
 IV, 19-21
 IV, 20-V, 11
 V
 V, 13-14
 V, 18-VI, 2
 VI
 VI, 20-V I
 VI
 V I
 IX
 IX, 1
 IX,
 IX,
 IX, 16-20
 X
 XI
 XI, 3
 XI, 13-14
 XI, 16-17
 XI
 XI, 1-2
X I
 XIV
 XIV, 5-6
 XV
 XVI
 MS. A
 MS. B
 Damascus Document MSS, Cave 4
 Masada 1039-200
 Masada 1039-211 fr. A
 Ostraca
 no. 1
 no. 2
Major Editions of Qumran Manuscripts
 Microfiche Edition
 E. Tov, ed., The Dead Sea Scrols on Microfiche (Leiden, 1992); A
 Companion Volume to the Dead Sea Scrols Microfiche Edition,
 Leiden, 1995.
 Photographic Edition
 Robert H. Eisenman and James M. Robinson, eds., AFacsimile
 Edition of the Dead Sea Scro ls, I-I, Washington, 1991.
 CD-ROM Edition
 T. H. Lim, The Dead Sea Scrols Electronic Reference Library, Vol. I,
 Oxford/Leiden, 1907.
 Computer Reconstructed Edition
 B. Z. Wacholder and M. G. Abegg, A Preliminary Edition of the
 Unpublished Dead Sea ScrollsI- I, Washington, 1991—5.
 Cave I
 M. Burrows, J. C. Trever and W. H. Brownlee, The Dead Sea Scrols of
 St Mark’s Monastery, I, New Haven, 1950 (contains Isaiaha, Habakkuk
Commentary); I/2, New Haven, 1951 (Manual of Discipline = IQS).
 There is no I/1.
 E. L. Sukenik, The Dead Sea Scrols of the Hebrew University,
 Jerusalem, 1954-5 (contains Isaiahb, War Rule, Thanksgiving Hymns).
 D. Barthélemy and J. T. Milik, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 I:Qumran Cave I, Oxford, 1955 (contains al the fragments from IQ).
 N. Avigad and Y. Yadin, A Genesis Apocryphon, Jerusalem, 1956.
 M. Morgenstern et al., ‘The hitherto unpublished columns of the
 Genesis Apocryphon’, Abr-Nahrain 33 (1955), 30-52.
 P. W. Flint and E. Ulrich, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXXI:Qumran Cave I, I:The Isaiah Scro ls (forthcoming).
 Caves 2-3 and 5-10
 M. Bailet, J. T. Milik and R. de Vaux, Discoveries in theJudaean
 Desert ofJordan, I: Les petites gro tes de Qumrân, Oxford, 1962
 (contains fragments and the Copper Scrol).
 Cave 4
 J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, Discoveries inthe Judaean Desert
 ofJordan,V:I (4Q158-4Q186), Oxford, 1968 (contains mostly
 exegetical fragments). For editorial improvements, see J. Strugnel,
 ‘Notes en marge du volume V des Discoveries in the Judaean Desert
 ofJordan’,RQ 7 (1970), 163-276.
 J. T. Milik, The Books of Enoch: Aramaic Fragments of Qumran
 Cave 4, Oxford, 1976.
 R. de Vaux and J. T. Milik, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 VI:Qumrân Grote 4, I:I.Archéologie. I. Tefi lin, Mezuzot et Targum
 (4Q128-4Q157), Oxford, 1977
M. Bailet, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, V I: Qumrân Gro te 4,
 I (4Q482-4Q520), Oxford, 1982 (contains fragments of the War Rule
 and remains of liturgical and sapiential compositions).
Carol Newsom, Songs of the Sabbath Sacrifice: ACritical Edition,
 Atlanta, 1985.
 Judith 
E. 
Sanderson, An Exodus Scrol from Qumran:
 4QpaleoExodmand the Samaritan Tradition, Atlanta 1986.
 Eileen M. Schuler, Non-Canonical Psalms from Qumran: A
 Pseudepigraphic Co lection, Atlanta, 1986.
 P. W. Skehan, E. Ulrich and Judith E. Sanderson, Discoveries in the
 Judaean Desert, IX: Qumran Cave 4, IV, Palaeo-Hebrew and Greek
 Biblical Manuscripts, Oxford, 1992.
 R. H. Eisenman and M. Wise, The Dead Sea Scrols Uncovered,
 Shaftesbury/ Rockport, Mass., 1992.
 E. Qimron and J. Strugnel, Discoveries in the judaean Desert,
 X:Qumran Cave 4, V, Miqsat Ma‘aseHa-Torah, Oxford, 1994.
 E. Eshel et al., Discoveries in the judaean Desert, XI:Qumran Cave
 4, VI: Poetical and Liturgical Texts, Part I, Oxford, 1998.
 Eugene Ulrich, F. M. Cross et al., Discoveries in the judaean Desert,
 XI:Qumran Cave 4, VI, Genesis to Numbers, Oxford, 1994.
 H. Attridge et al., Discoveries in the judaean Desert, X I : Qumran
 Cave 4, V I, Parabiblical Texts, Part I, Oxford, 1994; in fact 1995.
 Eugene Ulrich and F. M. Cross, Discoveries in the judaean Desert,
 XIV. Qumran Cave 4, IX: Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Kings,
 Oxford, 1996.
 E. Ulrich et al., Discoveries in the judaean Desert, XV: Qumran Cave
 4, X, The Prophets, Oxford, 1997.
 E. Ulrich et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XVI:Qumran Cave
 4,XI:Psalms to Chronicles, Oxford, 2000.
 F. M. Cross et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XV I:Qumran
 Cave 4, XI: 1-2 Samuel (forthcoming).
 J. M. Baumgarten, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XV I:Qumran
 Cave 4, X I, The Damascus Document (4Q266—4Q273),Oxford,
 1996.
 M. Broshi et al., Discoveries in the judaean Desert, X I:Qumran Cave
 4, XIV, Parabiblical Texts, Part I, Oxford, 1995.
 T. Elgvin et al.,Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XX: Qumran Cave
 4, XV, Sapiential Texts, Part I (1997)
S. Talmon et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXI: Qumran
Cave 4, XVI: Calendrical Texts, Oxford, 2001.
 G. Brooke et al.,Discoveries in the judaean Desert, XX I: Qumran
 Cave 4, XVI, Parabiblical Texts, Part I, Oxford, 1996.
 E. Puech, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXV.- Qumrân Gro te
 4, XV I, Textes hébreux (4Q521-528, 4Q576-579), Oxford,1998.
 P. Alexander and G. Vermes, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXVI:Qumran Cave 4, XIX: 4QSerekh Ha-Ya,had and Two Related
 Texts, Oxford, 1998.
 E. Schuler et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXV I:Qumran
 Cave 4, XXV I:Miscelanea,Part 2, Oxford, 2001.
 E. Chazon et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXIX:Qumran
 Cave 4, XX: Poetical and Liturgical Texts, Part 2, Oxford, 1999.
 D. Dimant, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXX:Qumran Cave 4,
 XXI: Parabiblical Texts, Part 4: Pseudo-Prophetic Texts, Oxford, 2001.
 E. Puech, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXXI:Qumran Cave 4,
 XXI: Textes araméens, première partie: 4Q529—549, Oxford, 2001.
 D. Pike and A. Skinner, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXX I:QumranCave 4, XX I:Unidentified Fragments, Oxford, 2001.
 J. Strugnel et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXXIV:Qumran
 Cave 4, XXIV: 4QInstructions: 4Q415 f., Oxford, 1999.
 J. 
Baumgarten et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXXV:Qumran Cave 4, XXV:Halakhic Texts, Oxford, 1999.
 P. Alexander et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXXVI:Qumran Cave 4, XXVI:Miscelanea, Part I, Oxford, 2000.
 E. Puech, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXXV I:Qumran Cave
 4, XXVI: Textes araméens, deuxième partie: 4Q550- 575, 580-582
 (forthcoming).
 G. L. Doudna, 4Q Pesher Nahum: a Critical Edition, Sheffield, 2001.
 Cave 11
 J. A. Sanders, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert of Jordan,IV:The
 Psalms Scrol of Qumran Cave 11(IQPsa), Oxford, 1965.
 J. P. M. van de Ploeg, A. S. van der Woude and B. Jongeling, Le
Targum deJob de la grotte XI de Qumrân, Leiden, 1971.
 Y. Yadin, Megi lat ha-Miqdash I— I, Jerusalem, 1977 (English edition,
 The Temple Scrol I— I, Jerusalem, 1983).
 D. N. Freedman and K. A. Matthews, The Paleo-Hebrew Leviticus
 Scrol ( IQpaleoLev), Winona Lake, 1985.
 E. Qimron, The Temple Scrol: A Critical Edition with Extensive
 Reconstructions (Beer-Sheva/jerusalem, 1996).
 F. Garcia Martínez et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XX I:
 Qumran Cave 11,I:11Q2-18,IQ20-30, Oxford, 1998.
 Unidentified Cave
 Y. Yadin, Tefi lin from Qumran (XQPhyl 1-4), Jerusalem, 1969.
 Other Judaean Desert Caves
 H. Cotton and A. Yardeni, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert,
 XXVI:Aramaic, Hebrew and Greek Documentary Texts from Nahal
 Hever and Other Sites, with an Appendix containing aleged Qumran
 texts (The Seiyal Colection I), Oxford, 1997.
 J. Charlesworth et al., Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXXV I:
 Miscelaneous Texts from the Judaean Desert, Oxford, 2000.
 Wadi Daliyeh
 M. Leith, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXIV Wadi Daliyeh I.
Wadi Daliyeh Seal Impressions,Oxford, 1997.
 D. M. Gropp, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, XXV I:Wadi
 Daliyeh I: The Samaria Papyri from Wadi Daliyeh, Oxford, 2001.
Damascus Document
 M. Broshi, The Damascus Document Reconsidered, Jerusalem,
 1992.
General Bibliography
 I. Qumran Bibliographies
 B. Jongeling, A Classified Bibliography of the Finds in the Desert of
 Judah: 1958—1969,Leiden, 1971.
 J. A. Fitzmyer, The Dead Sea Scrols: Major Publications and Tools
 for Study, Missoula, Montana, 1975; 2nd edn, 1977; Atlanta, 1990.
 F. García Martinez and D. W. Parry, A Bibliography of the Finds in the
 Desert of Judah 1970—1975, Leiden, 1996.
 2. General Studies and Monographs
 M. Burrows, The Dead Sea Scrols, New York, 1955.
 T. H. Gaster, The Dead Sea Scriptures in English Translation,
 Garden City, New York, 1956; 3rd edn, 1976.
 G. Vermes, Discovery in the Judean Desert, New York, 1956.
 M. Burrows, More Light on the Dead Sea Scrols, New York, 1958.
 F. M. Cross, The Ancient Library of Qumran and Modern Biblical
 Studies, New York, 1958; Grand Rapids, 2nd edn, 1980; 3rd edn,
 Sheffield, 1996.
 J. T. Milik, Ten Years of Discovery in the Wilderness
 ofJudaea,London, 1959.
 A. Dupont-Sommer, The Essene Writings from Qumran, Oxford, 1961.
 G. Vermes, The Dead Sea Scrols in English, London, 1962; 2nd edn,
 1975; 3rd edn, 1987; 4th edn, 1995.
 G. R. Driver, The Judaean Scrols:The Problem and a Solution,
 Oxford, 1965. Edmund Wilson, The Dead Sea Scrols 1947—
 1969,London, 1969.
 R. de Vaux, Archaeology and the Dead Sea Scrols, Oxford, 1973.
 G. Vermes, The Dead Sea Scrols: Qumran in Perspective, London,
1977; Philadelphia, 1981; 2nd edn, London, 1982; 3rd edn, London,
 1994.
 G. W. E. Nickelsburg, Jewish Literature Between the Bible and the
 Mishnah, Philadelphia and London, 1981.
 P. R. Davies, Qumran, Guildford, 1982.
 B. Z. Wacholder, The Dawn of Qumran: The Sectarian Torah and the
 Teacher of Righteousness, Cincinnati, 1983.
 D. Dimant, ‘Qumran Sectarian Literature’ in M. Stone, ed.,
 JewishWritings of the Second Temple Period, Assen and
 Philadelphia, 1984.
 M. A. Knibb, The Qumran Community, Cambridge, 1987.
 P. R. Davies, Behind the Essenes: History and Ideology in the Dead
 Sea Scrols, Atlanta, 1987.
 P. R. Calaway, The History of the Qumran Community, Sheffield,
 1988.
 S. Talmon, The World of Qumran from Within, Jerusalem/Leiden,
 1989.
 G. J. Brooke, ed., Temple Scrol Studies, Sheffield, 1989.
 L. H. Schiffman, ed., Archaeology and History in the Dead Sea
 Scro ls, Sheffield, 1990.
 M. O. Wise, A Critical Study of the Temple Scro l from Qumran Cave
 I, Chicago, 1990.
 H. Shanks, ed., Understanding the Dead Sea Scrols, Washington,
 1992.
 F. Garcia Martínez, Qumran and Apocalyptic: Studies on the Aramaic
 Texts from Qumran, Leiden, 1992.
 D. Dimant and U. Rappaport, eds., The Dead Sea Scrols: Forty
 Years of Research, Leiden, 1992.
 J. Trebole Barrera and L. Vegas Montaner, eds., The Madrid Qumran
 Congress 1991, Vols. I-I, Leiden, 1992.
 J. A. Fitzmyer, Responses to 101 Questions on the Dead Sea
 Scro ls, London, 1992.
 E. Ulrich and J. C. VanderKam, eds., The Community of the
 Renewed Covenant, Notre Dame, 1994.
 J. 
C. VanderKam, The Dead Sea Scrols Today, Grand
 Rapids/London, 1994.
Steudel, 
B. Nitzan, Qumran Prayer and Religious Poetry, Leiden, 1994.
 A. 
Der Midrasch zur Eschatologie aus der
 Qumrangemeinde (4QMidrEschata,b), Leiden, 1994.
 L. H. Schiffman, Reclaiming the Dead Sea Scrols, Philadelphia,
 1994.
 F. Garcia Martínez, The Dead Sea Scrols Translated: The Qumran
 Texts in English, Leiden, 1994.
 J.-P. Humbert et al., Foui les de Khirbet Qumrân et de Aïn Feshkha I,
 Album de photographies - Répertoire du fonds pbotographigue 
Synthèse des notes de chantier du Père Roland de Vaux OP,
 Fribourg/Göttingen, 1994.
 D. D. Swanson, The Temple Scrol and the Bible: The Methodology
 of IQT, Leiden, 1995.
 G. J. Brooke, ed., New Qumran Texts and Studies, Leiden, 1995.
 J. Maier, Die Qumran-Essener: Die Texte vom Toten Meer I-I,
 Munich, 1995.
 N. Golb, Who Wrote the Dead Sea Scrols? - The Search for the
 Meaning of the Qumran Manuscripts, New York/London, 1995.
 F. Garcia Martínez and J. Trebole Barrera, The People of the Dead
 Sea Scrols, Leiden, 1995.
 J. G. Campbel, The Use of Scripture in the Damascus Document
 1—8, 19—20, Berlin, 1995.
 P. R. Davies, Sects and Scrols: Essays on Qumran and Related
 Topics, Atlanta, 1996.
 H. J. Fabry et al., Qumranstudien, Göttingen, 1996.
 J. G. Campbel, Deciphering the Dead Sea Scrols, London, 1996;
 Oxford, 2002.
 D. W. Parry and S. D. Ricks, eds., Current Research and
 Technological Developments on the Dead Sea Scrols, Leiden,
 1996.
 D. J. Harrington, Wisdom Texts from Qumran, London/New York,
 1996.
 M. Wise, M. Abegg and E. Cook, The Dead Sea Scrols: A New
 Translation, London/San Francisco, 1996.
 J. Kampen and M. J. Bernstein, eds., Reading 4 QMMT, Atlanta,
 1996.
S. Metso, The Textual Development of the Qumran Community
 Rule, Leiden, 1997.
 J. J. Colins, Apocalypticism and the Dead Sea Scrols, London,
 1997.
 P. W. Flint, The Dead Sea Psalms Scrols and the Book of Psalms,
 Leiden, 1997.
 M. Bernstein et al., eds., Legal Texts and Legal Issues, Leiden, 1997.
 C. A. Evans and P. Flint, eds., Eschatology, Messianism and the
 Dead Sea Scrols, Grand Rapids, 1997.
 S. E. Porter and C. A. Evans, eds., The Scrols and the Scriptures:
 Qumran Fifty Years After, Sheffield, 1997.
 H. Stegemann, The Qumran Library: On the Essenes, Qumran, John
 the Baptist and Jesus, Grand Rapids/Cambridge, 1998.
 J. Zimmermann, Messianische Texte aus Qumran, Tübingen, 1998.
 J. H. Charlesworth et al., eds., Qumran-Messianism, Tübingen, 1998.
 M. E. Stone and E. Chazon, eds., Biblical Perspectives: Early Use
 and Interpretation of the Bible in Light of the Dead Sea Scrols,
 Leiden, 1998.
 Ch. Hempel, The Laws of the Damascus Document, Leiden, 1998.
 J. C. VanderKam, Calendars in the Dead Sea Scrols, London/New
 York, 1998.
 M. Abegg, P. Flint and E. Ulrich, The Dead Sea Scrols Bible, San
 Francisco, 1999.
 E. Ulrich, The Dead Sea Scrols and the Origin of the Bible, Grand
 Rapids, 1999.
 J. R. Davila, Liturgical Works, Grand Rapids, 2000.
 L. H. Schiffman, E. Tov and J. C. VanderKam, eds., The Dead Sea
 Scro ls Fifty Years after their Discovery 1947—1997, Jerusalem,
 2000.
 T. H. Lim et al., eds., The Dead Sea Scrols in their Historical
 Context, Edinburgh, 2000.
 E. J. C. Tigchelaar, To Increase Learning for the Understanding
 Ones: 4QInstructions, Leiden, 2001.
 T. H. Lim, H. L. MacQueen and C. M. Carmichael, On Scrols,
 Artefacts and Inte lectual Property, Sheffield, 2001.
 T. H. Lim, Pesharim, Sheffield, 2002.
J. Gascoigne et al., eds., Dead Sea Scro ls Special Issue: Journal of
 Religious History 26/2, 2002.
 J. H. Charlesworth, The Pesharim and Qumran History, Grand
 Rapids/Cambridge, 2002.
 P. R. Davies, G. J. Brooke and P. R. Calaway, eds., The Complete
 World of the Dead Sea Scrols, London, 2002.
 E. D. Herbert and E. Tov, eds., The Bible as Book: The Hebrew Bible
 and the JudaeanDesert Discoveries, London, 2002.
 J. Magness, The Archaeology of Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrols,
 Grand Rapids, 2002.
 3. Bilingual Editions, Concordance,
 Encyclopedia, Qumran Hebrew and Aramaic
 J. H. Charlesworth et al., eds., The Dead Sea Scrols: I. Rule of the
 Community and Related Documents; 2. Damascus Document, War
 Scrol and Related Documents, Angelic Liturgy, Tübingen/Louisvi le,
 1994—9.
 F. Garcia Martínez and E. J. C. Tigchelaar, The Dead Sea Scrols
 Study Edition I-I, Leiden/Grand Rapids, 2000.
 M. G. Abegg et al., The Dead Sea Scrols Concordance. I. The Non
Biblical Texts from Qumran, Leiden, 2003.
 E. Qimron, The Hebrew of the Dead Sea Scrols, Atlanta, 1986.
 L. H. Schiffman and J. C. VanderKam, Encyclopedia of the Dead Sea
 Scro ls, I- I, New York, 2000.
 K. Beyer, Die aramäischen Texte vom Toten Meer, Göttingen, 1984;
 Ergänzungsband, 1994.
 T. Muraoka, ed., Studies in Qumran Aramaic, Abr-Nahrain, Suppl. 3,
 Leiden, 1992.
 4. Introductions
 E. Schürer, G. Vermes, F. Mi lar and M. Goodman, The History of the
Jewish People in the Age of Jesus Christ, I, parts 1—2, Edinburgh,
 1986.
 G. Vermes, An Introduction to the Complete Dead Sea Scrols,
 London, 1999/ Minneapolis, 2000.
 J. VanderKam and P. Flint, The Meaning of the Dead Sea Scrols:
 their significance for understanding the Bible, Judaism, Jesus and
 Christianity, San Francisco, 2002.
 5. The Scrolls and the New Testament
 K. Stendahl, ed., The Scro ls and the New Testament, London, 1958.
 M. Black, The Scro ls and Christian Origins, London, 1961.
 J. Murphy-O’Connor, ed., Paul and Qumran, London, 1968; New York,
 1990.
 M. Black, ed., The Scro ls and Christianity, London, 1969.
 J. H. Charlesworth, ed.,Johnand Qumran, London, 1972; New York,
 1990.
 G. Vermes, Jesusand the World of Judaism, London, 1983;
 Philadelphia, 1984.
 R. Eisenman, Maccabees, Zadokites, Christians and Qumran,
 Leiden, 1983.
 M. Newton, The Concept of Purity at Qumran and in the Leters of
 Paul, Cambridge, 1985.
 ° N. S. Fujita, ACrack in the Jar:What Ancient Jewish Documents Te l
 Us about the New Testament, New York, 1986.
 R. Eisenman, JamestheJustin the HabbakukPesher, Leiden, 1986.
 J. H. Charlesworth, ed., Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrols, New
 York/London, 1992.
 F. H. Cryer and T. L. Thompson, eds., Qumran between the Old and
 the New Testament, Sheffield, 1998.
 J. R. Davila, ed., The Dead Sea Scrols as Background to Postbiblical
 Judaismand Early Christianity, Leiden, 2003.
 G. Vermes, Jesus in his Jewish Context, London/Minneapolis, 2003.
General Index
 Page references in italics indicate i lustrations. Abbreviations are as
 on the list on pages 91-2.
 Aaron
 Messiah of
 sons of.
 abbreviations, list of
 Abegg, Martin
 Abraham
 and astrology
 covenant with God
 death
 story of
 Absalom, House of
 Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS)
 Admonition Associated with the Flood
 Aemilius Scaurus (governor of Syria)
 afterlife
 ‘Age of Wrath’
 Ages of the Creation
 Agrippa 1
 Aland, Kurt
 Albright, W. F., in.
 Alcimus, High Priest
 Alexander the Great
 Alexander, P..
 Alegro, John Marco
 on ammanita muscaria
 and Copper Scrol
DJD V,
 ammanita muscaria (a fungus)
 Amram, Testament of
 AMS, see Accelerator Mass Spectrometry
 Anderson, A. A., DJD V,
 animal bones found at Qumran site
 Antiochus IV Epiphanes
 Antipas, Prince
 apocalyptic writings
 Apocalyptic Chronology
 Aramaic Apocalypse
 Messianic Apocalypse
 Triumph of Righteousness or Mysteries
 Apocrypha
 Apocryphal Psalms
 biblica ly based apocryphal works
 Apocryphal Weeks
 apostasy
 Aramaic manuscripts and
 apocrypha
 Aramaic Apocalypse
 Aramaic Bible Translations (Targums)
 archaeology
 Archelaus, Herod
 assemblies
 assembly of al the camps
 assembly of the camp
 assembly of the Congregation
 see also Council of the Community
 astrological physiognomies
 Astronomical Book of Enoch
 Athanasius, Mar
 Atonement, Day of
 Attridge, H.
Avigad, N..
 Babylonia
 Bai let, Maurice
 DJD 111,
 DJD VI,
 Balaam, prophecy of
 Balakros
 see also Balas, Alexander
 Balas, Alexander
 Bar Kokhba (Jewish rebel leader)
 Barki nafshi (Bless, my soul)
 Barthélemy, Dominique
 Baruch, Apocalypse of
 ‘bastards’
 bathing, ritual
 battle formations
 Baumgarten, J. M..
 DJD XV I,
 DJDXXXV
 Beatitudes
 Bechtel, Elizabeth Hay.
 Belial
 curses of
 see also Melkiresha’
 Ben Asher codex
 Ben-Dov, J.
 Benedictions
 see also blessings
 Benoit, Pierre
 Berakhot
 Bernstein, M.
 Beyer, K.
Bible
 biblical canon
 biblica ly based apocryphal works
 commentaries/interpretation (pesharim)-z
 Aramaic translations (Targums)
 Catenae or Interpretation of Biblical Texts on the Last Days
 Consolations or Tanhumim
 in Damascus Document
 Florilegium or Midrash of the Last Days
 Greek documents
 Heavenly Prince Melchizedek
 historical information within
 of law on marriage
 Ordinances or Commentaries on Biblical Law
 Testimonia or Messianic Anthology
 The Reworked Pentateuch
 Undentifiable Text Commentary
 New Testamentn
 textual reliability
 see also specific books of the Bible
 Biblical Archaeology Review (BAR)
 Biblical Archaeology Society
 birds’ nests
 Bless, My Soul
 blessings
 Blessings of Jacob
 Book of Blessings
 see also Benedictions
 Boismard, M.-E.
 Bonani, G..
 Brady, M.
 brontologion
 Brooke, George J.. .
 Broshi, Magen.
Brownlee, W. H.
 Burrows, Mi lar
 Bursar of the Congregation .
 Cairo genizah manuscriptsand n.,
 calendars
 Calendars of Priestly Courses
 Calendric Signs (Otot)
 Calendrical Document C
 MMT sectarian
 Phases of the Moon
 Zodiacal Calendar with a brontologion
 camps, see towns
 Canaan, Sermon on the Conquest of
 Cansdale..
 capital punishment, see death penalty
 Catenae or Interpretation of Biblical Texts on the Last Days
 celibacy.
 cemetery at Qumran
 chariots
 charity
 Charlesworth, J. H.
 Chazon, E.
 children
 entering the Covenant
 excavated bones
 chosen people
 Christianity
 and the Community
 Jewish Christianity
 Chronicles, Books of
 chronology
 ‘Church Orders’
circumcision
 city of the Covenant
 Claudius, Emperor
 codicology, Hebrew
 Colins, J.
 common ownership
 common table
 exclusion from
 Community
 Four Classes of
 history
 contribution of Scro ls
 history of the Essenes
 list of rebuked members
 as a plant
 religious ideas
 the Covenant
 election and holy life
 future expectations
 worship
 structure and rules of
 at Qumran
 Community, cont’d in towns/camps towns and Qumran compared and
 linked see also Essenes
 Community Rule
 on healing
 on immortality
 infringements and penalties
 manuscripts
 from Cave 1
 from Cave 4
 hybrid
 on meals
 on Mosaic Law
no reference to women
 number of copies
 on punctuality
 see also Damascus Document
 Concordance and
 Confession Ritual
 Congregation.
 assembly of
 see also Council of the Community
 Bursar of.
 dismissal from
 joining
 judges of
 Messianic Rule
 providing for a l needs
 qualification for
 slandering
 speaking to
 standards of
 see also Community
 Congregation, Prince of
 Blessing of
 ‘horoscope’
 Congregation, Rule of see Messianic Rule
 Consolations or Tanhumim
 contemplative life
 converts
 Remonstrances before Conversion
 Coponius (Roman prefect)
 Copper Scrol
 Council of the Community
 at Qumran
 Community Rule on
 Habakkuk Commentary on
hybrid Community Rule on
 Messianic Rule on
 in towns/camps
 Covenant
 community of
 election and holy life
 future expectations
 worship
 entry into
 Feast of the Renewal of
 new
 oath of
 unfaithful to
 see also Community
 Creation, Psalm of the
 Creation, The Ages of
 Cross, F. M.and ..
 Crown, A..
 crucifixion
 Cryptic Texts
 curses
 of Belial.
 and expulsion
 on insincere conversion
 of Melkiresha‘
 Damascus Document..
 on the Council of the Community
 on the Guardian
 historical information in
 manuscripts
 Exhortation
 from Cave 4
Statutes
 on the Messiah
 number of copies
 penal code
 on purification
 on skin disease
 and ‘sons of dawn’
 and Temple Scrol
 and towns/camps
 assemblies
 code of law
 Guardian’s qualifications
 head of ‘camp’
 initiation of members
 priests
 on ‘Wicked Priest’
 ‘Damascus, land of’
 Daniel, Book ofand
 Para-Danielic writings
 Darius I, King of Persia
 dating of the Scrols
 David, King
 descendants
 Moses (or David) Apocryphon
 poetry of
 de Vaux, Father Roland
 dating the Scrolsand .
 and publication of the Scrols.
 Dead Sea Scrols
 catalogue
 dating
 discovery of
 greatest novelty
 lack of historical texts
‘liberation’ in 1991
 and the New Testament
 number and content
 provenance
 and Qumran and towns/camps
 research and publication
 1947—1967
 1967—1990
 1990—2003
 significance
 Dead Sea Scrols Bible
 death, life after
 death penalty
 Demetrius I, King
 Deuteronomy, Book of
 dietary restrictions, see food
 Dimant.
 Discoveries in the Judean Desert (DJD)
 Divine Office, Order of
 Divisions oftheTimes, Book of the see also Jubilees
 Donceel-Voûte, Pauline.
 Driver, Godfrey and
 dues, priestly
 Duhaime,J.
 Dupont-Sommer, Andréand
 Ecclesiastes, Book of
 Ecclesiasticus, Book of see also Jesus Ben Sira
 Egypt
 Eisenman, Robertand and .
 Eleazar, son of Nahmani.
 election
 Elgvin, T.
Elibah, an elder
 Elisha Apocryphon
 Enoch
 and Book of Giants
 Book of
 Prayer of Enosh and Enoch
 ‘Ephraim’
 Eshel, Esther
 Eshel, Esther & Hanan
 Eshel, Hanan.
 Essenes
 disappearance
 and early Christian Church
 Feast of Pentecost
 hidden treasure
 history
 chronological framework
 concealed references in the Scrols
 decipherment of particular a lusions
 membership
 and Qumran.
 religious ideas
 The Covenant
 election and holy life
 future expectations
 worship
 writings and library
 see also Community
 Esther, Book of Proto-Esther.
 Eusebius
 exhortations
 Damascus Document
 Exhortation to Seek Wisdom
 Master’s Exhortation to the Sons of Dawn
MMT C
 Exodus, Book of
 Historico-theological Narrative based on Genesis and Exodus
 Paraphrase of Genesis and Exodus
 Exodus, Sermon on the
 exorcism, poems of
 expulsion from the sect
 Ezekiel.
 Book of
 Pseudo-Ezekiel
 Ezra
 Falk, Daniel
 False Prophets, List of
 feasts and festivals
 agricultural
 liturgical calendar and
 Pentecost (Feast of Weeks)
 prayers for
 Renewal of the Covenant
 ‘fifteen men’
 Fight against Evil Spirits
 firstfruits
 Firstfruits, Day of
 Fitzmyer, J. A...
 Flint, P.
 Flood
 Admonition Associated with the Flood
 see also Noah
 Florilegium or Midrash on the Last Days
 Flusser.
 food
 blessing
dietary restrictions
 fruits
 priests excluded from eating
 pure
 see also common table
 Foundations of the Community
 Four Classes of the Community
 Four Kingdoms
 Freedman. N..
 Galilee
 Gamaliel I, Patriarch
 García Martínez, F..
 DJD XX I,
 DJDXXXVI
 garments, pure3
 Genesis
 Apocryphon
 commentaries
 Commentary C
 Commentary D
 Historico-theological Narrative based on Genesis and Exodus
 and Jubilees
 Paraphrase of
 Gentiles
 attacking
 interaction with
 slaves converted to Judaism
 and the Wicked Priest
 Giants, Book of
 Ginzberg.
 gleanings see also tithes
 Glessmer, U.
Gog
 Golb, Normanand
 Goliath, David and
 Goodman, Martin..
 Goranson, J.
 Greece
 culture and Jewish history
 as enemy
 Greeks referred to as Kittim
 Greek manuscripts and
 Tobit
 Greenfield, J. C.
 Groningen hypothesis
 Guardian (mebaqqer)
 psalm recital
 at Qumran
 in towns/camps
 in towns/camps and at Qumran compared
 see also Master
 Habakkuk Commentary
 interpretation of ‘Lebanon’
 portrait of Kittim
 on Teacher of Righteousness and Wicked Priest
 Halakhah A
 Halakhah B
 Hananiah Notos
 Hananiah, son of Sim[on]
 Harding, G. Lankester
 Harrington, D. J.
 harvesting
 Hasidim
 Hasmonaeans
Heavenly Lights, Words of the
 Hebrew texts
 alphabet acrostics
 Aramaic translations
 Heinemann, J.
 hekhaloth (heavenly palaces)
 Henning, W.
 Herod Archelaus
 Herod the Great
 Hidden Scro ls from the Judaean Desert (Sukenik)
 Hirschfeld, Yizhar.
 Historical Texts
 A
 C-E
 F
 history, see Community; Jewish history
 Holiness, council of
 Holocaust of the Sabbath, Songs for
 Horbury, W.
 ‘horoscopes’
 Hosea, Commentaries on
 Huntington Library, California and
 Hunzinger, Claus-Hunno
 hymns
 Hymn Celebrating the Morning and the Evening
 hymn ending Community Rule
 Hymn of Glorification A and B
 Hymnic Fragment
 on resurrection
 for the Sabbath Day
 Songs for the Holocaust of the Sabbath
 Teacher of Righteousness and
 Thanksgiving
 war
see also poetry; psalms
 Hyrcanus see John Hycanus I; John Hyrcanus I
 ideology, Scro ls and New Testament
 idolatry
 immortality
 initiation into the sect .
 injuries, compensation for
 Isaac sacrifice of
 Isaiah, Book of Commentaries on
 Israel
 blessing of
 ‘company of Israel’
 in days of Moses
 desert and town brethren and
 judges from tribe of
 rank of the Israelites
 Scrols and New Testament and
 slander against
 Israel Anquities Authority (IAA)
 Israel Department of Antiquities
 Jacob
 Blessings of
 Testament of
 James (brother of Jesus)
 Jannaeus, Alexander
 Jason, High Priest
 Jeremiah
 Apocryphon of
 Letter of
 Jerusalem
Community living in
 Essene library inand
 hidden treasure
 history
 Helenization of
 Antiochus and
 Wicked Priest and
 ‘last priests of’
 Romans and
 destruction of
 New Jerusalem texts
 Poetic Fragments on
 prophecies regarding
 Jesus ben Sira
 Jesus of Nazareth
 birth
 Scrols and study of
 as Teacher of Righteousness or Wicked Priest
 Jewish history
 Apocalyptic Chronology or Apocryphal Weeks
 contribution of Scro ls
 Historical Texts
 history of the Essenes
 inter-testamental
 recording of
 Job
 Targum of
 John the Baptist
 John the Essene
 John Hyrcanus I
 John Hyrcanus I
 Jonathan, King/High Priest
 identity ofand
 see also Jannaeus, Alexander; Maccabaeus, John
Jonathan, son of Absalom
 Jongeling, B..
 Joseph
 Apocryphon now Narrative and Poetic Composition
 Testament of
 Josephus, Flavius
 on Community history
 on the Essenes.andn.
 on Essene beliefs and practices
 Joshua
 Apocryhon (i) or Psalms of Joshua
 Apocryphon (ii)
 Prophecy of
 Joshua ben Hananiah, Rabbi
 Josiah, King
 Jubilees.
 Judaea
 Judah, House of blessing of hymn to
 Judah, Testament of
 Judaism
 Community and
 Gentile slaves converted to
 Jewish Christianity
 priests’ status
 rabbinic
 see also Jewish history
 Judas Aristobulus I
 Judas (Essene prophet)
 judges
 Judges, Book of
 Jul, A. J. T..
 Khirbet Qumran.
cemetery
 date of occupation and
 excavation of
 expulsion of Essenes from
 population
 see also Qumran caves
 King-Messiah
 Kings, Books of Elisha Apocryphon Paraphrase on
 Kister, Menahem
 Kittim
 Kittim, cont’d
 in Habakkuk Commentary
 war with
 see also Romans
 Knibb, M. A.
 Laenas, Poppilius
 Lamech (father of Noah)
 Lamentations, Book of
 language of the Scrols and New Testament
 Larson, E.
 Lash, Major-General
 Last Days, Interpretation of Biblical Texts on the or Catenae
 Last Days, Midrash on or Florilegium
 Last Supper
 Latin manuscripts
 Law
 Books of
 Council of the Community and
 Essenes and
 infringements and penalties
 interpretation
 novices and
obedience to
 Ordinances or Commentaries on Biblical Law
 Prophets and
 see also Moses, Law of; Rules
 Lazar, Rabbi
 Leader’s Lament, A
 Lebanonand n.
 Lehman, M. R.
 Leontopolis Jewish temple
 leprosy
 Levi (destroyer of Shechem)
 Levi, Patriarch.
 Testament of
 Testaments of the Patriarchs
 Levites
 blessing of
 rank
 replacement for priest
 rules for
 tithes
 Torah interpretation
 on tribunals
 war duties
 Leviticus
 Targum of
 ‘Liar’ see also Wicked Priest
 Light, Prince of see also Michael, archangel
 Lim, Timothy H..
 ‘lion, furious young’
 Lippens, Captain Philippe
 liturgy
 Benedictions
 Blessings
 Confession Ritual
liturgical calendar
 Liturgical Prayer
 Liturgical Work
 Order of Divine Office
 Purification Rituals
 see also calendars; prayers
 Luke, Gospel of
 Maccabaean theory
 Maccabaean-Hasmonaean era
 Maccabaeus, Jonathan
 King John?
 Wicked Prince?
 Maccabaeus, Judas
 Maccabaeus, Simon
 Maccabees, Books of
 Magness, Jodi.
 Malachi, Commentary on
 ‘Manasseh’
 Manasseh, King of Judah, ‘Prayer of
 Manual of Discipline see Community Rule
 Mark, Gospel of
 marriage.
 kinship and
 proof of virginity
 see also sexual morality
 martyrdom
 Masada
 capture by Romans
 manuscripts from
 mashqin (liquids)
 maskil see Master
 Masoretic text
Master (maskil)
 Exhortation to Sons of Dawn
 precepts for
 rules for
 see also Guardian
 Mattathias (priest)
 Matthew, Gospel of
 Matthews, K. A..
 Mayer, B.
 meals see common table; food
 mebaqqer, see Guardian
 Meditation, Book of
 Melchizedek, archangel
 The Heavenly Prince
 see also Michael, archangel
 Melkiresha’
 curses of
 see also Belial
 Men Who Err
 Menahem (Essene prophet)
 Menelaus, High Priest
 menstruation
 Merkahah (throne-chariot)
 Messiah(s)
 blessing of
 coming of.
 ‘horoscope’
 and the Prophet
 Messianic Anthology or Testimonia
 Messianic Apocalypse
 Messianic Rule
 description of meal
 towns/camps structure and rules
 Messianism
Methuselah
 Metso, S.
 Micah, Commentary on
 Michael, archangel
 Words of
 see also Melchizedek, archangel
 ‘Michael and the Just, The Song of’
 Midrash on the Book of Moses
 Midrash on the Last Days or Florilegium
 Milik, Józef Tadeuszand .
 and the Copper Scrol
 DJD I,
 DJD I,
 DJD VI,
 DJD X I
 JJS
 The Books of Enoch
 Mi lar, F..
 Miqsat Ma’aseha-Torah,see MMT
 Miriam, Song of
 Mishnah
 MMT (Miqsat Ma’ase ha-Torah)
 on dealings with Gentiles
 dietary laws
 and Essenes and Sadducees.
 MMT A, Sectarian Calendar
 MMT B, Special Rules
 MMT C, The Exhortation
 on purity matters
 Moffett, Wi liam A.and n.
 Moon, Phases of
 Morgenstern, M.
 Moses
 Apocryphon a
Apocryphon b
 Apocryphon c
 (or David) Apocryphon
 Assumption of
 farewel discourse
 Law of
 kinship and marriage
 oath to keep
 ritual acts precribed by
 transgression of
 transmission to rabbis
 Midrash on the Book of Moses
 preparation to hear God
 revelation by angels
 Words of
 Muhammad edh-Dhib
 Murabba’at caves, manuscripts from
 Mysteries
 Nabonidus, Prayer of
 Nahum Commentary
 historical information in
 Temple Scrol and
 Naphtali, Testament of
 Nash papyrus
 Naveh, J.
 Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon
 Nehemiah, Book of
 New Testament.
 Dead Sea Scrols and
 Greek fragments and
 Habakkuk Commentary and
 see also Bible
New Wheat, Feast of
 Newsom, Carol
 Nitzan, Bilhah
 Noah
 birth554
 covenant with God
 curses son
 story of
 The Book of
 novices.
 Numbers, Book of
 oaths, see vows and oaths
 ‘Obadiah, Psalm of
 O’Calaghan, José
 Og, King of Bashan
 Olyan, S.
 Onias I, High Priest
 Onias IV, High Priest.
 Ostraca
 Otot (Signs) Document
 palaeography
 Palestine
 papyrus
 Parable of Warning
 Passover
 Patriarchs, Testaments of
 Paul, Saint
 Peitholaos
penal code
 Community Rule
 Damascus Document
 penance
 Pentateuch
 Aprocryphal Pentateuch B
 extracts from 4QHalakhah A
 Reworked Pentateuch
 pentecontad calendar
 Pentecost (Feast of Weeks)
 pesharim, see Bible, commentaries/interpretation
 Pfann, S.
 Pharisees
 Philo of Alexandriaand n.
 Plea for Deliverance
 Pliny the Elder
 Ploeg, J. P. M. van der.
 poetry
 Lamentations
 Messianic Apocalypse
 Poetic Fragments on Jerusalem and ‘King’Jonathan
 Renewed Earth
 see also hymns; psalms; Wisdom literature
 Pompey (Roman general)
 Pontius Pilate
 Poppilius Laenas
 postulants
 Potlaos
 prayers.
 appointed times
 at time of war
 Daily Prayers
 Liturgical Prayer
 Prayer Celebrating the Morning and the Evening
Prayer of Enosh and Enoch
 Prayer of Nabonidus
 Prayers for Festivals
 Words of the Heavenly Lights
 see also hymns
 pride
 Priest-Messiah
 priests.
 at Qumran
 Blessings of
 Calendars of Priestly Courses
 disqualification
 High Priesthood history
 ‘last priests’ of Jerusalem
 rules for
 tithes
 Torah interpretation
 in towns/camps
 war duties
 wife
 Zadokite.
 see also Teacher of Righteousness; Wicked Priest
 property
 common ownership
 lying in matters of
 novices and
 prophecy
 of Balaam
 Community and
 of Isaiah
 of Joshua
 Prophets
 Books of
 List of False Prophets
the Prophet
 proselytes
 provenance of the Scrols
 Proverbs, Book of
 Psalms
 apocryphal
 Apocryphal Psalms (I)
 Apocryphal Psalms (I)
 Apocryphal Psalms ( I)
 Psalms, cont’d
 Commentary on Psalms
 Non-canonical Psalms
 Poetic Fragments on Jerusalem and ‘King’ Jonathan
 Psalm cli, ‘supernumerary’
 Psalm cxlvi
 Psalms of Joshua or Joshua Apocryphon (i)
 Psalms Scrol
 Songs of the Sage
 see also hymns
 Pseudepigrapha
 Ptolemies (Greeks of Egypt)
 Ptolemy Philometor, King
 Ptolas
 Puech, Emile..
 DJD XXI
 DJD XXV,
 DJD XXXI
 DJD XXXVI
 punishments
 death penalty
 expulsion
 imprisonment
 for injury
 penance
purity and purification
 and the common table
 exclusion from
 Harvesting
 MMT on
 novices and
 Purification Ritual A
 Purification Ritual B
 ritual bathing
 Temple Scrol on
 Tohorot Ba-Bb
 Tohorot (Purities) A
 Qahat, Testament of
 Qimron, E...
 Qumran caves
 abandonment of Scrols
 archaeological finds
 date of occupationand
 discovery of Scrols
 location
 see also Khirbet Qumran
 Qumran Community, see Community
 Qumran writings, see Dead Sea Scrols
 Rabin, Chaim
 radiocarbon-dating tests
 rank
 loss of
 Rebukes, Register of
 ‘red heifer, law of
 Reich, Ron.
Remonstrances (before Conversion?)
 Renewal of the Covenant, Feast of
 Renewed Earth, The
 resurrection
 Resurrection fragment
 Righteousness, Time of
 Righteousness, Triumph of
 Righteousness, Ways of
 rituals
 bathing
 Confession Ritual
 Purification Ritual A
 Purification Ritual B
 Renewal of the Covenant
 sacred meal
 Temple worship
 Roberts, C. H.
 Robinson, James M., xo and
 Rockefeler Museum
 Rofe, A.
 Romans
 Jewish rebelion against
 referred to as Kittim
 torture of Essenes
 see also Kittim
 Roth, Cecilnd n
 Royal Messiah
 Rules
 The Book of War
 Community Rule
 Damascus Document
 Entry into the Covenant
 Four Classes of the Community
 Halakhah
Harvesting
 Master’s Exhortation to the Sons of Dawn
 Men Who Err
 Messianic Rule
 MMT
 Register of Rebukes
 Remonstrances (before Conversion?)
 Temple Scrol
 Tohorot
 War Scrol
 The Wicked and the Holy
 see also individual rules
 Ruth, Book of
 Sabbath
 Hymns for the Sabbath Day
 laws
 MMT calendar
 Songs for the Holocaust of the Sabbath
 sacred mushroom and
 sacrifices
 Essenes and
 MMT on
 Temple Scrol on
 Sadducees
 and MMT.
 Sage, Songs of the
 Sahin, Khalil Iskandar (Kando).
 Salome-Alexandra (Shelamzion), Queen
 Samaria
 Samuel Apocryphon
 Sanders, J. A. and
 Sanderson, Judith E., ion.
sapiential works, see Wisdom literature
 Satan, see Belial; Melkiresha’
 sceptre
 Schechter, S..
 Schiffinan, Lawrence H.
 Schlosser, Robert.
 Schuler, Eileen
 Schürer, E..
 Schwartz, D. R.
 ‘Scoffer’
 see also Wicked Priest
 scribes
 scriptorium at Qumran, zon.
 Scrols Symposium 1993, zon.
 Second Temple era
 sectarian scro ls
 Seductress, The
 Seely, D.
 Seleucids (Syrian Greeks)
 Selers, O. R..
 Septuagint (Greek Old Testament)
 Serekh ha-Milhamah, see war, Rule of
 sexual abstinence
 see also celibacy
 sexual morality
 see also marriage
 Shanks, Hershel
 Shelamzion (Queen Salome-Alexandra)
 Sheol
 signa, worship of
 ‘Signs’ (Otot) Document
 Simeon (destroyer of Shechem)
 Simon (Essene prophet)
 Sinan, D.
sins
 confession of
 inadvertent
 punishment
 Skehan, Patrick, ion.
 skin disease
 Skotheim, Robert A., gn.
 slander
 Smith, M.
 Sokoloff, M.
 soldiers
 Solomon, King
 Some Observances of the Law, see MMT
 ‘son of God’
 ‘son of man’
 Songs of the Holocaust of the Sabbath
 Songs of the Sage
 sons, rebelious
 ‘sons of dawn’
 ‘sons of light’
 ‘sons of the Pit’
 ‘Spouter of Lies’
 see also Wicked Priest
 standards
 of the Congregation
 Roman worship of their
 Stanton, G.
 star-god
 Starcky, Jean
 stave
 Stegemann, H.
 Steudel, Annette
 Stone, M. E.
 Strange, James F.
Strugne l, John.
 DJD X,
 D7D X I,
 DJD XIX,
 DJD XXXIV,
 RQ
 Stuckenbruck, L.
 Sukenik, E. L.
 Syncelus, George
 Syriac manuscripts
 Syriac psalms
 tabernacle
 Tabernacles, Feast of
 taharah, see tohorot
 Talmon, Shemaryahu.
 Talmud
 Tanhumim or Consolations
 Tanzer, S.
 Targums
 Targum of Job
 Targum of Leviticus
 taxes
 Teacher of Righteousness
 in Commentary on Micah
 dating
 and hymns
 identity of
 Jonathan and
 and MMT
 and prophecy
 sent from God.
 Wicked Priest and
Teicher, Joseph
 Temple buildings
 hidden treasure
 of Jerusalem
 unlawful in Leontopolis
 worship
 during war with Kittim
 Temple Scrol
 on the calendar
 on kinship and marriage
 legislation in
 on purity matters
 Ten Commandments see also Moses, Law of
 Testimonia or Messianic Anthology
 Testimonium Flavianum
 Tetragram
 Thanksgiving Hymns
 Therapeutai (Egyptian ascetics) .
 Thiede, C. P.
 Thiering, Barbara
 throne-chariot
 thunder
 Tigchelaar, E. J. C.
 Time of Righteousness
 tithes (dues)
 Tobit, Book of
 tohorah, see tohorot
 tohorot (purity)3
 Tohorot Ba (now Entry into the Covenant)
 TohorotBa-Bb
 Tohorot Da (now Four Classes of the Community)
 Tohorot (Purities) A
 see also purity and purification
 Torah
interpretation
 study of
 swearing to adhere to
 Tov, Emanueland
 towns (camps)
 compared and linked with Qumran
 structure and rules
 transgressions, see sins
 translation notes
 treason
 treasure, hidden
 Trebole, J.
 trees, giant ‘good’
 Trever, J.and n.
 tribes
 tribunals
 Trimph of Righteousness
 trumpets
 Tryphon (Syrian general)
 Two Spirits doctrine
 Two Ways, The
 Ulendorf, Edward
 Ulrich, Eugene.
 units of the Community
 VanderKam, J. C.
 vengeance
 Vermes, Geza.
 1977 lectureand n.
 articles.. .
 DJDXXVI
DJDXXXVI
 publications .and .,
 Vespasian (Roman general)
 virginity, proof of
 vows and oaths
 Wacholder, Ben Zion
 war
 prophecies regarding
 Temple Scrol laws regarding
 War, Rule of (Book of War)
 War Scrol
 Cave 1 manuscripts
 Cave 4 manuscripts
 poem in
 on Temple worship
 Warning, A Parable of
 Ways of Righteousness
 Weeks, Feast of (Pentecost)
 Weinfeld, M.
 wel
 White, S.
 Wicked and the Holy
 Wicked Priest(s)
 Groningen hypothesis and
 harassment of Teacher of Righteousness
 identity
 wine
 Wisdom, Book of
 Wisdom literature
 Beatitudes
 Bless, My Soul
 Exhortation to Seek Wisdom
Fight against Evil Spirits
 Leader’s Lament
 Parable of Warning
 Sapiential Didactic Work A
 Sapiential Work (i)
 Sapiential Work (ii)
 Sapiential Work (iii): Ways of Righteousness
 Sapiential Work, Instruction-like Composition
 Songs of the Sage
 The Seductress
 The Two Ways
 Wise, Michael.
 witnesses
 Wolters, A.
 women.
 childbirth
 excavated bones of
 and food
 menstruation
 oath of
 see also marriage; sexual morality
 Woude, A. S. van der..
 Wright Baker, Professor H.
 Wright, G. E., In.
 Xerxes, King of Persia
 Yadin, Yigael.and
 Yannai, Alexander see Jannaeus, Alexander
 Yardeni, Ada
 Yavan
 see also Greece
Yohanan
 Zadok, sons ofand
 Teacher of Righteousness and and
 Zealot theory
 Zealots
 hidden treasure
 Zechariah.
 Zedekiah Apocryphon
 Zephaniah, Commentary on
 Zion Psalm
 Zodiacal Calendar with a brontologion
THE STORY OF PENGUIN CLASSICS
 Before 1946 ...‘Classics’ are mainly the domain of academics and
 students, without readable editions for everyone else. This al changes
 when a little-known classicist, E. V. Rieu, presents Penguin founder
 Alen Lane with the translation of Homer’s Odyssey that he has been
 working on and reading to his wife Nely in his spare time.
 1946 The Odyssey becomes the first Penguin Classic published, and
 promptly sels three mi lion copies. Suddenly, classic books are no
 longer for the privileged few.
 1950s Rieu, now series editor, turns to professional writers for the best
 modern, readable translations, including Dorothy L. Sayers’s Inferno
 and Robert Graves’s The Twelve Caesars, which revives the
 salacious original.
 1960s The Classics are given the distinctive black jackets that have
 remained a constant throughout the series’s various looks. Rieu retires
 in 1964, hailing the Penguin Classics list as ‘the greatest educative
 force of the 20th century’.
 1970s A new generation of translators arrives to swel the Penguin
 Classics ranks, and the list grows to encompass more philosophy,
 religion, science, history and politics.
 1980s The Penguin American Library joins the Classics stable, with
 titles such as The Last of the Mohicans safeguarded. Penguin
 Classics now offers the most comprehensive library of world literature
 available.
1990s The launch of Penguin Audiobooks brings the classics to a
 listening audience for the first time, and in 1999 the launch of the
 Penguin Classics website takes them online to a larger global
 readership than ever before.
 The 21st Century Penguin Classics are rejacketed for the first time in
 nearly twenty years. This world famous series now consists of more
 than 1300 titles, making the widest range of the best books ever
 written available to mi lions - and constantly redefining the meaning of
 what makes a ‘classic’.
 The Odyssey continues ...
1
 For the story of my personal involvement with the Dead Sea Scrols,
 see Providential Accidents: An Autobiography, SCM Press, London,
 and Rowman & Littlefield, Lanham, Md., 1988.
 2
 E. L. Sukenik, Megi lot genuzot, 1, Jerusalem, 1948; W. F. Albright,
 Buletin of the American Schools for Oriental Research 110 (April
 1948), 1-3; G. E. Wright, ‘A Sensational Discovery’, Biblical
 Arcbaeologist (May 1948), 21-3.
 3
 Cf. the interview with the discoverer reported by John C. Trever, The
 Dead Sea Scrols: A Personal Account, Grand Rapids, 1979, 191-4.
 4
 Cf. Observations sur le Manuel de discipline découvert près de la
 Mer Morte, Paris, 1951 His major synthesis in English is The Essene
 Writings from Qumran, Oxford, 1961. For the latest survey, see G.
 Vermes and Martin Goodman, The Essenes According to the
 Classical Sources, Sheffield, 1989.
 5
 Archaeology and the Dead Sea Scrols, Oxford, 1973.
 6
 Les Manuscrits du désert de Juda,Tournai and Paris, 1953;
 Discovery in the Judean Desert, New York, 1956.
 7
 J. T. Milik, Dix ans de découvertes dans le désert de Juda, Paris,
 1957 (English translation: Ten Years of Discovery in the Wilderness
 of Judaea, London, 1959); F. M. Cross, The Ancient Library of
 Qumran and Modern Biblical Studies, New York, 1958; R. de Vaux,
 op. cit. (in note 5 above).
 8
 The Dead Sea Scrols of St Mark’s Monastery, I, New Haven, 1950;
 I/2, New Haven, 1951.
 9
 The Dead Sea Scrols of the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 1954-5.
 10
 N. Avigad and Y. Yadin, A Genesis Apocryphon, Jerusalem, 1956.
See now J. C. Greenfield and E. Qimron, ‘The Genesis Apocryphon
 Col. XI’, in Studies in Qumran Aramaic, edited by T. Muraoka (Abr
Nahrain Suppl. I), Louvain, 1992, 70-77.
 11
 Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, I: Qumran Cave I, Oxford, 1955.
 12
 M. Bailet, J. T. Milik and R. de Vaux, Discoveries in the Judaean
 Desert of Jordan, I: Les petites gro tes de Qumrân, Oxford, 1962.
 13
 J. A. Sanders, Discoveries in the Judaean Desert of Jordan,IV: The
 Psalms Scrol of Qumran Cave I (IQPsa), Oxford, 1965.
 14
 J. M. Alegro and A. A. Anderson, Discoveries in the JudaeanDesert
 ofJordan,V: I (4Q158-186), Oxford, 1968. A re-edition of this volume
 by George J. Brooke is planned.
 15
 Khalil Iskandar Sahin, familiarly known as Kando, a cobbler cum
 antique dealer, had been the principal middle man between the
 Bedouin discoverers of thousands of fragments and Roland de Vaux in
 the 1950s.
 16
 Megi lat ha-Miqdash I- I, Jerusalem, 1977 (English translation: The
 Temple Scrol I- I, Jerusalem, 1983). See also E. Qimron, The
 Temple Scrol: A Critical Edition with Extensive Reconstructions,
 Beer-Sheva/Jerusalem, 1996.
 17
 Members of the original editorial team spent a great deal of time
 working in Jerusalem in the 1950s, but were subsequently disbanded,
 most of them occupying ful-time teaching posts in Britain, France and
 the United States.
 18
 J. P. M. van der Ploeg, A. S. van der Woude and B. Jongeling, Le
 Targum deJobde la grote XI de Qumrân, Leiden, 1971; D. N.
 Freedman and K. A. Matthews, The Paleo-Hebrew Leviticus Scro l ( I
 QpaleoLev), Winona Lake, 1985.
 19
In the 1970s, only J. T. Milik remained productive - The Books of
 Enoch: Aramaic Fragments of Qumran Cave 4, Oxford, 1976;
 Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, VI: (4Q128-57), Oxford, 1977 
before he, too, entered a state of hibernation. By 1991, he was
 persuaded to relinquish al his unpublished documents, which were re
assigned to new editors.
 20
 The Dead Sea Scrols: Qumran in Perspective, London, 1977, 24
 (origina ly the 1977 Margaret Harris Lectures delivered at the
 University of Dundee).
 21
 A Preliminary Edition of the Unpublished Dead Sea Scrols: The
 Hebrew and Aramaic Texts from Cave 4, Biblical Archaeology
 Society, Washington, 1991. Two further volumes appeared in 1992
 and 1995
22
 A Preliminary Concordance to tbe Hebrew and Aramaic Fragments
 from Qumran CavesI to X (distributed by H. Stegemann, Göttingen,
 1988).
 23
 The folowing brief account of the Huntington Library’s involvement with
 the Dead Sea Scrols is based on documentary evidence kindly
 provided by its President, Robert A. Skotheim. In 1982, Elizabeth Hay
 Bechtel, a renowned Californian philanthropist and Scrol Maecenas,
 deposited at the Huntington a set of negatives of Qumran manuscripts.
 These had been taken in 1980 by Robert Schlosser, the chief
 photographer of the library, for whom Mrs Bechtel obtained permission
 from the Jerusalem Department of Antiquities to photograph al the
 Dead Sea Scrols. Two series of pictures were produced, one for the
 Ancient Biblical Manuscript Center founded by Mrs Bechtel in
 Claremont, California, and another for herself. The latter ended up in a
 ‘climatized’ vault specia ly constructed at the Huntington with the help
 of a Bechtel grant of $50,000. In 1986, a year before her death, Mrs
 Bechtel donated her Scrol photographs to the Huntington. Paragraph
 9 of the agreement made in April 1982 specifies that materials on
 which no restrictive policy is applied by Mrs Bechtel ‘wi l be made
available to use by scholars in accordance with the Huntington’s
 general policies for its own materials’. No such restriction was ever
 conveyed by her to the trustees of the library. Bil Moffett became
 director of the Library in 1990. It was on the basis of clause 9 of the
 agreement that he proposed to the trustees the opening of the
 Huntington’s Qumran photographs to al qualified users of the library.
 Bi l Moffett, the ‘liberator of the Scro ls’, died on 20 February 1995 at
 the age of sixty-two.
 24
 Robert H. Eisenman and James M. Robinson, A Facsimile Edition of
 the Dead Sea Scrols, I-I, Washington, 1991. The quality of many of
 these pictures leaves much to be desired, but others are serviceable.
 25
 Patrick W. Skehan, Eugene Ulrich and Judith E. Sanderson,
 Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, IX: Qumran Cave 4, IV, Palaeo
Hebrew and Greek Biblical Manuscripts, Oxford, 1992.
 26
 Cf. Emanuel Tov, ‘The Unpublished Qumran Texts from Caves 4 and
 I’, JJS 43 (1992), 101-36.
 27
 The claim that several minute Greek scraps from Cave 7 represent the
 New Testament is unsubstantiated. Cf. below, pp. 472-3.
 28
 It is suggested that the Aramaic fragments of 4Q550 derive from a
 proto-Esther.
 29
 4Q242-6 testify to the existence of a non-canonical Daniel cycle.
 30
 The exception is the Damascus Document, wel attested in Caves 4, 5
 and 6, but previously known from two incomplete medieval
 manuscripts found in the Cairo Genizah, and first published by S.
 Schechter as Documents of Jewish Sectaries, I: Fragments of a
 Zadokite Work, Cambridge, 1910; repr. with a Prolegomenon by J. A.
 Fitzmyer (Ktav, 1970). For a better edition see Magen Broshi, The
 Damascus Document Reconsidered, Jerusalem, 1992.
 31
‘The Development of the Jewish Scripts’, in The Bible and the Ancient
 Near East: Essays in Honor of W. F. Albright, Garden City, NY, 1961,
 133-202.
 32
 . Cf. O. R. Selers, ‘Radiocarbon Dating of Cloth from the ‘Ain Feshkha
 Cave’, BASOR 123 (1951), 22-4.
 33
 G. Bonani et al., ‘Radiocarbon Dating of the Dead Sea Scrols’, ‘Atiqot
 20 (1991), 25-32.
 34
 A. J. T. Jul et al., ‘Radiocarbon Dating of Scrols and Linen Fragments
 from the Judean Desert’, Radiocarbon 37 (1995), 11-19. The
 quotation appears on p. 17.
 35
 . Cf. most recently in The Essenes According to the Classical
 Sources, Sheffield, 1089, 12-23. The co-author of this volume, Martin
 Goodman, has recently questioned the use of the evidence by
 Josephus to prove the Essene identity of the sect, arguing that
 Josephus never presents a ful picture of the Jewish scene of his time
 and that consequently he may have referred to a group merely similar
 to the Essenes. Cf. ‘A Note on the Qumran Sectarians, the Essenes
 and Josephus’, JJS 46 (1995), 161-6. Despite my admiration for his
 learning, I exceptiona ly beg to differ.
 36
 For a fuler argument, see below, pp. 46-8.
 37
 G. Vermes, The Dead Sea Scrols: Qumran in Perspective, London,
 1994, 117.
 38
 For a major restatement of the whole subject, see Emanuel Tov,
 Textual Criticism of the Hebrew Bible, Minneapolis-Assen/Maastricht,
 1992.
 39
 Cf. ‘Biblical Proof-texts in Qumran Literature’, JSS 34 (1989), 493
508. It should be noted, however, that the Damascus Document quotes
 also the Book of Jubilees and a work attributed to the Patriarch Levi. It
is unclear what their status was.
 40
 Cf. J. T. Milik, The Books of Enoch: Aramaic Fragments of Qumran
 Cave 4, Oxford, 1976.
 41
 Cf. E. Schürer, G. Vermes, F. Milar and M. Goodman, The History of
 the Jewish People in the Age ofJesusChrist, I, Edinburgh, 1986, 250
68.
 42
 Cf. ‘Historical Texts C-E, 40331-333’, ed. J. A. Fitzmyer, DJD, XXXVI,
 281-9.
 43
 Cf. ‘Qumran Forum Miscelanea I: The so-caled King Jonathan
 Fragment (40448)’, JJS 44 (1993), 294-300.
 44
 . For a more detailed exposition, see Chapter I below.
 45
 Cf. War 11, 567; I, 11, 19.
 46
 Cf. War 11, 152-3.
 47
 Cf. F. García Martinez, ‘Qumran Origins and Early History: A
 Groningen Hypothesis’, Folia Orientalia 25 (1988), 113-36; F. García
 Martinez and A. S. van der Woude, ‘A Groningen Hypothesis of
 Qumran Origins and Early History’, RQ 14 (1989-90), 521-42.
 48
 G. R. Driver, The Judaean Scrols: The Problem and a Solution,
 Oxford, 1965; C. Roth, The Historical Background of the Dead Sea
 Scro ls, Oxford, 1958.
 49
 ‘The Problem of Origin and Identification of the Dead Sea Scrols’,
 Proceedings ofthe American Philosophical Society 124/1 (1980), 1
24; ‘Who Hid the Dead Sea Scrols?’, BA 48 (1982), 68-82 ; ‘Khirbet
 Qumran and the Manuscripts of the Judaean Wilderness:
 Observations on the Logic of their Investigation’, JNES 49 (1990),
 103-14. For a criticism of the Golb thesis, see Timothy H. Lim, ‘The
Qumran Scrols: Two Hypotheses’, Studies in Religion 21/4 (1992),
 455-66.
 50
 Who Wrote the Dead Sea Scrols? - The Search for the Meaning of
 the Qumran Manuscripts, Scribner, New York/London, 1995. This
 volume repeats a completely misconceived attack on the Oxford
 Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies and on myself as director of the
 Centre’s Forum for Qumran Research, although the facts
 misinterpreted by Professor Golb (first in The Qumran Chronicle 2/1,
 1992, 3-25) have been set out correctly by G. Vermes and P.
 Alexander, ‘Norman Golb and Modern History’ (ibid., 2/2, 1993, 153-6,
 with a correction in the same periodical 4/1-2, 1994, 74).
 51
 At the Scrols Symposium held at the Library of Congress in
 Washington on 21-2 April 1993, Magen Broshi, Director of the Shrine
 of the Book at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, delivered a powerful
 rebuttal of the Golb conjecture as wel as the speculative theory
 advanced at another conference, held in New York in December 1992,
 by Pauline Donceel-Voûte, in whose view Qumran was a winter vila
 built for wealthy inhabitants of Jerusalem and the room which de Vaux
 identified as a scriptorium a dining hal (see ‘Coenaculum’, Res
 Orientales IV (1992), 61-84). Against the latter theory, see R. Reich, ‘A
 Note on the Function of Room 30 (the “Scriptorium”) at Khirbet
 Qumran’, JJS 46 (1995), 157-60, For P. Donceel-Voûte the Qumran
 complex constitutes a country estate, a vi la rustica (‘Les ruines de
 Qumrân réinterprétées’, Archaeologia 298 (1994), 24-35), and the
 same theory is propounded by Yizhar Hirschfeld (‘Early Roman Manor
 Houses in Judea and the Site of Khirbet Qumran’, Journal of Near
 Eastern Studies 57 (1998), 161-89). According to A. Crown and L.
 Cansdale, Qumran was a luxurious hostelry for merchants (‘Qumran:
 Was it an Essene Settlement?’, BAR 20, No. 5 (1994), 24-35, 73-8).
 The mainstream opinion that the ruins are the remains of an Essene
 religious settlement is forcefuly maintained by M. Broshi in ‘The
 Archaeology of Qumran: A Reconsideration’ and ‘Was Qumran,
 indeed, a Monastery?’, in Bread, Wine, Wa ls and Scrols, Sheffield
 Academic Press (2002), 198-210, 259-73. For the latest and very
competent archaeological account see Jodi Magness, The
 Archaeology of Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrols, Grand Rapids,
 2002.
 In January 1996, two Israeli archaeologists investigated man-made
 caves close to the settlement which, in their opinion, were used as
 sleeping quarters by members of the sect. See M. Broshi and H.
 Eshel, ‘How and Where Did the Qumranites Live?’, Dead Sea
 Discoveries 6 (1999), 328-48.
 52
 Cf. e.g. John Strugnel, ‘Moses Pseudepigrapha at Qumran’, in
 Archaeology and History in the Dead Sea Scrols, ed. Lawrence H.
 Schiffman (Journal for the Study of the Pseudepigrapha, Supplement,
 Series 8, Sheffield, 1990, 221).
 53
 ‘Hebrew Biblical Manuscripts from the Judaean Desert: Their
 Contribution to Textual Criticism’, JJS 39 (1988), 10-19.
 54
 It may also be wondered why the librarians of Jerusalem should have
 chosen such a distant place to hide their manuscripts when equaly
 inaccessible caves could have been found closer to home?
 55
 See his numerous articles in JJS between 1951 and 1955.
 56
 The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross, London, 1970.
 57
 . Jesusthe Man: A New Interpretation from the Dead Sea Scrols,
 Doubleday, London and New York, 1992; Jesus and the Riddle of the
 Dead Sea Scrols, Harper, San Francisco and NewYork, 1992.
 58
 Robert Eisenman and Michael Wise, The Dead Sea Scrols
 Uncovered, London and New York, 1992.
 59
 See my review of The Dead Sea Scrols Uncovered in the TLS of 4
 December 1992 and ‘The War over the Dead Sea Scrols’, The New
 York Review of Books, 11 August, 1994, 10-13.
 60
Cf. below, pp. 472-3.
 61
 Cf. below, p. 614.
 62
 Cf. G. Vermes, Jesus the Jew, London, 1973, 67-9; The Religion
 ofJesusthe Jew, London, 1003,102-3.
 63
 See also G. Vermes, ‘Qumran Forum Miscelanea I’, JJS 43 (1992),
 303-4, and Emile Puech, ‘Une apocalypse messianique’, RQ 15
 (1991-2), 475-522.
 64
 Cf. Targum Neofiti, Fragmentary Targum and Pseudo-Jonathan on
 Gen. iii, 15.
 65
 S. Talmon in F. M. Cross and S. Talmon, Qumran and the Origin of
 the Biblical Text, Cambridge, Mass., 1975, 380.
 66
 The Dead Sea Scrols Forty Years On, Oxford, 1987, 15-16.
 67
 On this, see G. Vermes, The Religion of Jesus theJew,London and
 Minneapolis, 1993.
 68
 The absence of any mention of the ‘sons of Zadok, the Priests’ in MMT
 deals a serious blow to the hypothesis that a proto-Sadducaean
 priestly group lurks behind this document. The basis of this theory is
 that three legal doctrines (out of a list of more than twenty) voiced in
 MMT are attributed to the Sadducees in rabbinic literature. But the
 soundest position is to consider these teachings as priestly halakhot,
 held by the forerunners of the Qumran Community and the later
 Sadducees.
 69
 The Therapeutai or Egyptian ascetics of Philo adopted celibacy, but
 formed separate male and female communities (mature men having
 left behind family and property, and women being mostly aged virgins;
 cf. 
Philo, Contemplative Life, 13, 68) whose members met for
 worship. A badly damaged manuscript from Cave 4 (4Q502),
repeatedly mentioning old men and women, is interpreted by J. M.
 Baumgarten as probably aluding to a similar institution (‘4Q502,
 Marriage or Golden Age Ritual?’, JJS 34 (1983), 125-35). 4Q502
 consists of 344 papyrus fragments. Its editor, M. Bai let (DJD, V I, 81
105), gave it the title ‘Marriage Ritual’, which is almost certainly a
 misnomer (see Baumgarten above). Not a single coherent section of
 this liturgical composition has survived; hence no meaningful
 translation can be supplied. However, it is worth noting that fr. 2
 contains the phrase ‘daughter of truth’ and an alusion to the
 examination of women concerning their ‘inteligence and
 understanding’. Josephus states in connection with the marrying
 Essenes that they trained their women - like their men - for three years
 (War I, 161; cf. G. Vermes, Discovery in the Judean Desert, New
 York, 1956, 57, note 176; J. M. Baumgarten, DJD, XV I, 143).
 70
 This interpretation of the data yielded by the excavation is that of R. de
 Vaux (see Archaeology and the Dead Sea Scrols, I973). In her
 recent bri liant survey, Jodi Magness questions de Vaux’s theory
 regarding the first phase of the limited sectarian occupation of the
 Qumran site during the second half of the second century BCE and
 argues that the communal buildings were first erected around 100
 BCE (see The Archaeology of Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrols,
 2002, 63-9). If she is right, the initial edifice was already on a relatively
 large scale and would correspond to the needs of an already wel
established group. In fact, her theory is compatible with the early
 Hasmonaean beginnings of the sect based on literary considerations,
 albeit without supporting archaeological evidence.
 71
 The Zadokite affiliation of the Teacher of Righteousness may be
 supported by circumstantial evidence. According to the older version
 of the Community Rule, represented by 4Q258 and 256, the
 democratic ‘Congregation’ (‘the Many’) constituted the supreme
 authority of the Community with ordinary priests (sons of Aaron)
 forming the top layer in doctrinal and legal administration. This position
 is attributed to the ‘sons of Zadok’, members of the high-priestly family,
 in the revised 1QS v. In other words, at some early stage in the history
of the sect there was a Zadokite takeover. Combining this information
 with the account of CD 1 (supported by 4QD), we may reasonably
 surmise that the change occurred with the arrival of the Teacher of
 Righteousness sent by God to take care of the ‘plant’ of Aaron and
 Israel (ordinary priests and lay Jews), who had been groping,
 leaderless, for twenty years. The crisis in the Zadokite ranks in the
 160s BCE, folowing the secession of Onias IV to Egypt, provides the
 likeliest background for these events (cf. G. Vermes, ‘The Leadership
 of the Qumran Community’ in Geschichte-Tradition-Reflexion [Martin
 Hengel Festschrift] I (Tübingen, 1996, 375-84). In this connection it
 may not be irrelevant to note that according to 4Q266 fr. 5 ii priests
 who had emigrated among the Gentiles were disqualified.
 72
 To these four outstanding Essenes we may now add possibly the
 name of a Bursar or Guardian, Eleazar son of Nahmani, mentioned in
 one of the Qumran ostraca (cf. below, p. 634), and the three imperfect
 members, Yohanan and two men caled Hananiah mentioned in
 4Q477. See above, pp. 31-2.
 73
 Another metaphorical use of Lebanon (= the foreign nations) is implied
 in the quotation of Isa. x, 34 in the Rule of War (4Q285 fr. 5).
 74
 4Q268 adds: to me.
 75
 4Q266 fr. 2 ii, 3 adds: so that from al the paths of the sin[ners you shal
 keep away].
 76
 Or: men caled (4Q266, fr. 2 ii, I).
 77
 Or: when he acted wickedly against Israel the first time (4Q266, fr. 3 ii,
 6-7).
 78
 4Q266, fr. 3 ii, 10 adds: of which Moses said:
 79
 MS. B continues: by the hand of the prophet Zechariah: Awake, O
 Sword, against my shepherd, against my companion, says God.
Strike the shepherd that tbe flock may be sca tered and I wi l stretch
 my hand over the li tle ones (Zech. xiii, 7). The humble of the flock are
 those who watch for Him. They shal be saved at the time of the
 Visitation whereas the others shal be delivered up to the sword when
 the Anointed of Aaron and Israel shal come, as it came to pass at the
 time of the former Visitation concerning which God said by the hand of
 Ezekiel: They sha l put a mark on tbe forebeads of those who sigh
 and groan (Ezek. ix, 4). But the others were delivered up to the
 avenging sword of the Covenant.
 80
 MS. B inserts: they have entered the Covenant of repentance but they
 have not turned, etc.
 81
 MS. B adds: bore witness against the people, so wi l He love, etc.
 82
 The end of the Exhortation of CD is folowed in 4Q266, fr. 4, lines 11
12, by a badly preserved alusion to the Messiah: ‘God [wil set up] a
 shep[herd for His people] and he wi l feed [them] in [pastures] ...’
 83
 4Q266, fr. 8 i, 6 adds: and (then) draw near.
 84
 4Q266, fr. 8 ii, 8; 270, fr. 6 iii, 15 add: And that which He said:
 85
 Or: through (4Q270, fr. 6 iii, 18).
 86
 (4Q267, fr. 9 i,i) adds: and from one month to another.
 87
 Or: in any (4Q270, fr. 6 iv, 21).
 88
 Or: his field (4Q266).
 89
 Or: show bitterness to (4Q271, fr. 5 i, 7).
 90
 4Q270, fr. 6 v, 17 adds: day.
 91
 Or: transgress (4Q267, fr. 9 v, 5).
92
 4Q266, fr. 10 i, 4 adds: to the congregation.
 93
 This reading (yolid), which has been queried by many, including
 myself, seems to be confirmed by computer image enhancement. E.
 Puech (RQ 16, 1994, 361) prefers to read yitga leh,‘wi l be revealed’.
 94
 For the contents of the badly damaged columns I-XI, see p. 191.
 95
 Reading dglyw(standards = divisions) with the Samaritan Pentateuch
 against the traditional rglyw (feet). Computer enhancement, initiated by
 George Brooke, has made this reading certain.
 96
 The inclusion of these documents in the 1997 edition was made
 possible by the kindness of F. M. Cross and Esther Eshel, who
 generously put at my disposal in advance their decipherment of the
 two inscribed potsherds.
 97
 If the editors’ reading is correct, line 8 may also be understood as
 aluding to the completion of a year of initiation in the Community, at
 the end of which the novice had to hand over his property to the Bursar
 of the sect according to Community Rule (1QS VI, 18-20): ‘And if it be
 his destiny, according to the judgement of the Priests and the multitude
 of the men of their Covenant, to enter the company of the Community,
 his property and earnings shal be handed over to the Bursar of the
 Congregation who shal register it to his account and shal not spend it
 for the Congregation.’ ‘El’azar son of Nahmani, mentioned in line 2,
 may have been the Bursar (or the Overseer/Guardian) of the
 Community in the first century CE.