dictionary of
 GODS AND
 GODDESSES
 second edition
 michael jordan
For Beatrice Elizabeth Jordan
 Dictionary of Gods and Goddesses, Second Edition
 Copyright © 2004, 1993 by Michael Jordan
 All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or 
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any 
information storage or retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the publisher. 
For information contact:
 Facts On File, Inc.
 132 West 31st Street
 New York NY 10001
 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 Jordan, Michael, 1941
Dictionary of gods and godesses / Michael Jordan.– 2nd ed.
 p. cm.
 Rev. ed. of: Encyclopedia of gods. c1993.
 Includes bibliographical references and index.
 ISBN 0-8160-5923-3
 1. Gods–Dictionaries. 2. Goddesses–Dictionaries. I. Jordan, Michael, 1941– Encyclopedia of gods. II. Title.
 BL473.J67 2004
 202'.11'03–dc22
 2004013028
 Facts On File books are available at special discounts when purchased in bulk quantities 
for businesses, associations, institutions, or sales promotions. Please call our Special 
Sales Department in New York at (212) 967-8800 or (800) 322-8755.
 You can find Facts On File on the World Wide Web at http://www.factsonfile.com
 Text design by David Strelecky
 Cover design by Cathy Rincon
 Printed in the United States of America
 VBFOF10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
 This book is printed on acid-free paper.
CONTENTS
 6
 PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION
 v
 INTRODUCTION TO THE FIRST EDITION
 vii
 CHRONOLOGY OF THE PRINCIPAL RELIGIONS 
AND CULTURES COVERED IN THIS BOOK
 xiii
 DICTIONARY OF GODS AND GODDESSES
 1
 BIBLIOGRAPHY
 361
 INDEX
 367

PREFACE TO THE
 SECOND EDITION
 6
 It is explained in the introduction to this volume
 that no database of deities worldwide can ever
 hope to be comprehensive. There are just too
 many regional variations amongst the larger reli
gion blocks and, equally, a vast number of very
 localized cults, each with its own idiosyncratic
 pantheons of gods and goddesses. The intention
 of the first edition was to cover all the major the
aters of belief as extensively as was feasible at the
 time, with the primary object of including most of
 the names of deities that the student was likely to
 come across while traveling to religious and
 archaeological sites around the world, or research
ing in museums and libraries. This meant that
 much attention was paid to the living polytheistic
 religions, including Hindu, Buddhist, Taoist, and
 Shinto. It was also thought constructive to include
 as many names as possible from Ancient Near
 Eastern, Egyptian, Classical Roman and Greek,
 Norse, Celtic, and Germanic pantheons since, 
in recent decades, there has been a resurgence 
of interest in many of these among “alternative
 religion” movements.
 As a result of these decisions, certain geograph
ical areas were under-represented in the first edi
tion. Most notably they included the Pacific islands
 of Hawaii, Polynesia, Melanesia and Micronesia,
 along with Australia and New Zealand with the
 venerated traditions of the Australian Aborigines
 and the Maori. All of these cultures are richly
 endowed with deities. In recent years some spe
cialized reference works, focusing on the “Pacific
 traditions,” have been published and the additional
 entries in the book draw on valuable resources of
 information that were not all widely available when
 the first edition was compiled. 
Away from the southern hemisphere cultures,
 two specific new entries deserve mention. Helen
 of Troy was omitted from the first edition because
 she is widely regarded as having been a mortal
 queen made famous through Homeric legend.
 According to the great Greek historian Hesiod,
 however, Helen was a goddess and as such worthy
 of inclusion here. And, in response to widespread
 interest in the history of the Knights Templar, I
 have included an entry on Baphomet, the medieval
 deity allegedly worshiped by that order of knights.
 The chronology section has been re-worked
 and the bibliography substantially expanded to
 incorporate a large number of titles that have
 been published since the first edition of the 
Encyclopedia of Gods, while retaining the details 
of older references. Many of the newer titles are
 currently in print and widely available in book
stores and from online sources.
 Numerous cross-references and a comprehen
sive index have been added to this edition to allow
 easy access to the information.
 v

INTRODUCTION
 TO THE FIRST EDITION
 6
 In compiling a book like Encyclopedia of Gods, one
 is struck both by the enormous number and vari
ety of deities that occur in different religions
 around the world, and also by the way patterns
 repeat themselves—almost every culture has its
 creator gods, gods concerned with a locally impor
tant aspect of the weather, goddesses of fertility,
 gods whose duty it is to protect the home. The
 same mysteries have puzzled people on every 
continent, the same fears have beset them and they
 have all attempted to explain the mysteries 
and allay the fears in the same way—through the
 worship of gods. 
We know, beyond reasonable doubt, that a
 world measured purely in spiritual dimensions has
 been identified for at least 60,000 years—it may
 have been present as an innate part of the human
 psyche since the very beginnings of consciousness.
 But why does the human spirit harbor such a need
 for gods?
 The beginnings of an answer to this question
 may be found in the beliefs of the simplest cul
tures. Primitive peoples attribute to all of nature,
 everything which exists in a physical state, a 
spiritual identity that is ever-present but unseen,
 conjured or appeased by the special powers
 placed upon certain individuals of the tribe, the
 shamans or wise ones. These spirits may be poorly
 defined, but they are endowed with human form
 and human habits: they walk, talk, enjoy sexual
 relations, exhibit anger, sorrow, joy, mischief 
and so on. Thus one finds in simple shamanistic
 faiths such characters as “cloud man” and “grass
 woman,” “old man of rocks” and “reindeer child.”
 As this animistic style of religion develops, the
 rather vague ethereal spirits of clouds, rocks, trees,
 birds and animals become detached from their
 temporal “shells” and take on progressively more
 abstract associations. Thus we find a goddess of
 childbirth, a god of storms, a god of blacksmiths
 or sailors, even a deity concerned with the proper
 use of pots and pans. As the scope of their respon
sibilities broadens, the deities become more
 clearly defined, more “human” personalities. We
 come to know them by their appearances, by their
 style of dress, by the attributes they carry. Yet
 some of their animistic traits persist and they may
 still be identified in inanimate symbols and
 devices, and be represented as animals or other
 living things. The social infrastructure of the spirit
 world may also closely mirror our own: thus
 deities become arranged in hierarchical orders
 known as pantheons and may be separated into
 groups, not only responsible for different areas of
 worldly control, but also directing their powers
 toward good or evil.
 To explain the precise significance in our lives of
 gods and goddesses is more complicated because
 it may alter according to environment and accord
ing to the stage of social and economic develop
ment. Again it necessitates a return to the template
 provided in the most simple religions. Without
 the benefit of science, technology and history, the
 natural world is a puzzling and frightening place,
 vii
viii Introduction to the First Edition
 steered by great invisible forces. If every object in
 nature has a spiritual identity, which may be con
sidered to act as its protector or guardian, logic
 dictates that mankind’s activities affect the object
 not only in its physical state but also in its spiritual
 dimension. Thus the approval of the relevant spirit
 must be obtained before the slaughter of game,
 the felling of a tree, the commencement of a jour
ney, the building of a house. Responsibility for our
 actions is taken from us and given into the hands
 of an all-powerful, if unseen being.
 The need to expiate our activities has persisted
 down the millennia: the prime role of gods is still
 to protect, to steer, to govern the order of life and
 to provide answers to conundrums which science
 and the modern temporal world cannot resolve.
 This encyclopedia contains more than 2,500
 entries of deities derived from both ancient and
 contemporary cultures. It does not generally
 include personalities regarded as demigods,
 demons or mythical heroes. A demigod is defined
 here as a personality who was once mortal but has
 been elevated to the celestial ranks. Generally
 speaking, and it is certainly true of the occidental
 religions, gods are iconic figures whose “pedigree”
 belongs exclusively in the heavens. They are dis
tinct and separate from humankind. In some reli
gions, however, most notably Buddhism, all deities
 are perceived as having once been mortal beings
 whose pursuit of excellence and enlightenment has
 elevated them ever higher through a series of
 spheres or planes toward perfection. In the
 mythologies of other cultures, often of a tribal
 nature, there exist significant ancestral personali
ties who have clearly been deified and are treated
 entirely as gods and goddesses e.g. the Sumerian
 god Dumuzi or the Norse god Balder. In such
 instances, personalities that might correctly be
 regarded as demigods have an entry here. It should
 be noted, therefore, that while Gautama Buddha is
 included, there are no entries for Jesus Christ or
 the prophet Muhammad.
 Although certain cultures, such as those of
 Greece and Rome, will be well known to most
 readers, others will be less familiar, and some his
torical background may be useful.
 The Sumerians were the first high civilization to
 inhabit Mesopotamia. Their style of cuneiform
 writing was only deciphered a few years ago and
 much of their history and circumstance is still not
 properly known. In the twenty-fourth century BC
 they were taken over by the Akkadians under Sar
gon and the style of writing changed to a Semitic
 cuneiform. The names of many deities changed at
 the same time. The Old Babylonian era began at
 about the end of the second millennium BC and
 was marked largely by the influence of the law
making king Hammurabi. With some interrup
tions, the influence of Babylon continued through
 the neo-Babylonian period of biblical notoriety,
 until roughly two hundred years before the birth of
 Christ. The Hittite Empire arose in the moun
tainous region of what is now Turkey and its period
 of influence was comparatively short-lived. The
 Hurrians, closely linked with the Hittite Empire,
 were less a compact culture than a loose-knit and
 widely traveled people who shared a common lan
guage. They influenced much cross-fertilization
 of culture in the ancient Near East.
 The demise of these ancient orders came in 539
 BC when the Persians under Cyrus conquered
 Babylon. Their hegemony was brief and was
 replaced by the Greek influences of Alexander the
 Great and his Macedonian Empire in the fourth
 century BC. The Romans under Pompey came in
 the first century BC. Muslim expansionism took
 over key areas of Syrio-Palestine and Persia in the
 seventh century AD, introducing the new religion
 of Islam to an area which had seen strong, if short
lived, influence from Zoroastrianism.
 In parallel with the Mesopotamian cultures, that
 of Egypt survived more or less intact from some
time before 3000 BC until the end of the Roman
 Empire period, though from the first century AD,
Introduction to the First Edition ix
 under Roman provincial rule, the makeup of its
 religion becomes increasingly confused.
 The classical religions of Greece and Rome sup
planted those of the ancient world as the dominant
 occidental faiths. Greece was the pioneer and,
 although known properly from about 800 BC, co
incidental with the rise of the city states, her deities
 were probably well established in much earlier
 times, perhaps in the Mycenaean age which began
 circa 1600 BC. Rome seems largely to have bor
rowed deities from Greece and renamed them.
 Her influence collapsed with the sack of Rome by
 the Visigoths in 410 AD.
 Elsewhere in Europe the Celtic gods were prob
ably taking substance as early as the late Bronze
 Age in central Europe (circa 900 BC) but they come
 under historical scrutiny only from about 400 BC.
 Celtic culture was effectively a spent force in
 Europe by the first century BC with the defeat of
 the Gaulish rebellion under Vercingetorix, but its
 influence continued in Ireland until Christianiza
tion in the fifth century AD. The Celts were never
 literate and names of deities are known only from
 Romano-Celtic inscriptions and the questionably
 accurate writings of Christian monks. The Vikings,
 with whom the Nordic Icelandic culture is most
 closely associated, began their major period of
 influence in the eighth century AD, but their deities
 are often modeled on older Germanic gods who
 probably held sway from at least the first or second
 centuries AD. Their culture is better recorded
 through the Icelandic Eddaic literature.
 In India, Hinduism took shape perhaps as early
 as 1700 BC with the migration of Aryan peoples
 from the southern steppes of Russia into the sub
continent. The development of the two great epic
 poems, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata,
 between 300 BC and 300 AD swelled the ranks of
 deities and the process of enlargement continued
 with the more recent literature of the Puranas and
 the development of Tantrism. Though now asso
ciated more with the Far East, Buddhism began in
 northern India with the teachings of Gautama
 Buddha in about 500 BC. It was introduced to
 China in the first century and to Japan as late as the
 sixth century AD.
 Of the major Meso- and South American reli
gions discussed, the earliest is that of the Mayans,
 in the Yucatan peninsula of Mexico, whose civiliza
tion arose in the fourth century BC, reached its
 peak during the seventh century AD and then
 waned in influence as the Toltec Empire began to
 flourish. The Incas, though established on parts
 of the Pacific coast of Peru in the fifth century BC,
 did not begin serious cultural expansion for several
 hundred years and their brief empire period com
menced in 1438 AD. The Aztecs, in Mexico, started
 their rise to prominence about a hundred years
 earlier but were largely contemporary with the
 Incas. These pre-Columbian cultures came to an
 abrupt end with the arrival of the Conquistadors,
 Cortez routing the Aztec capital in 1521 and
 Pizarro taking Peru twelve years later. Almost all
 their sacred literature was destroyed.
 To assist in placing the various cultures in a
 chronological perspective, a chart is provided on
 page xiii.
 It is notoriously difficult to pinpoint the moment
 in time at which a personality or a title first
 becomes identifiable as a deity. Frequently a name
 is recognizable from a list or a text but it is not pos
sible to say with certainty whether that word
 reflects an object of worship or some more secular
 notion. The word may, at first, refer only to a phe
nomenon, such as the sunrise. Eventually the term
 for sunrise is adopted as the proper name of a deity
 who is the apotheosis of that phenomenon, but
 precisely when that change in usage has taken place
 is unknown. With rare exceptions, deities do not
 emerge “overnight.” They are slow to evolve, often
 deriving from the personality of an older god or
 goddess. Likewise they may be highly tenacious,
 their worship dwindling imperceptibly, sometimes
 over many centuries. Rarely is the period of rever
x Introduction to the First Edition
 ence for a deity, from “source to sink,” clear-cut.
 Because of the once enormous number of animistic
 spirits, a process of merging or syncretization fre
quently takes place when deities who exhibit sim
ilar roles become redundant and join forces as a
 single personality. Obviously when cultures
 merged, some deities were also superseded. Some
times a compound name may give a clue to this
 process, but often only the title of the dominant
 figure remains for the record.
 Thus the chronology can never be precise and is
 frequently the subject of disagreement between
 scholars. Where dates are given for a “known
 period of worship,” these are to be regarded as an
 approximate guide only.
 Apart from the distinctions outlined below, the
 deities listed here are treated equably, though many
 of the entries in large pantheons such as those of
 Hinduism and Buddhism are probably on a level 
of importance equal to that of Christian saints.
 Entries are in alphabetical order, without break
down into ethnic or cultural groups, and each entry
 is listed under the name by which the deity is most
 commonly known. The modern geographical area
 of the world in which the deity is, or has been, rec
ognized is given in [square brackets].
 Two types of entry are employed in the encyclo
pedia. Entries for deities who may be regarded as
 being, or having been, of major significance within
 their cultural area are headed by BOLD CAPI
TALSand are accorded a more detailed coverage in
 the text. The remainder are treated in less detail. In
 all cases the information includes the original cul
tural source. This may sometimes be reflected by a
 language e.g. Sumerian; by a cultural movement
 e.g. Babylonian, Hindu or Buddhist; or by a tribal
 identity e.g. Yoruba or Navajo. It should be noted
 that the term “Akkadian-Babylonian” is taken to
 mean that period influenced by the Akkadian and
 Babylonian hegemonies, during which texts were
 composed in the Semitic Akkadian language.
 Also included is the role of the deity in the 
pantheon—whether he or she is perceived as a 
creator, a god of concepts like fertility or death, or
 taking more specific responsibility, such as for the
 well-being of a maize crop. His or her immediate
 genealogy is listed since gods and goddesses are
 invariably considered to have celestial parents, sib
lings and offspring. Mythology plays a significant
 role in sustaining a religion and its personalities,
 particularly among the broad mass of cultures
 which are essentially non-literate. The deeds of
 spirit beings are recorded in word-of-mouth sto
ries. When mythology plays a significant part in
 the understanding or makeup of the personality, its
 outlines may be included and the literary source
 identified. Information which may be of use in rec
ognizing a god or goddess from iconography, such
 as dress, symbols, sacred animals and other attrib
utes is also provided when known, and art refer
ences are given. Attributes may be of particular
 importance in identifying deities from large and
 complex pantheons such as those found in Hin
duism and Buddhism. These deities may appear in
 a number of physical forms or emanations in order
 to perform different roles i.e. as an ascetic, a lover,
 a prince or a warrior. Sometimes variations are
 described as avataras, which may be best explained
 as reincarnations in which a divine being has been
 born into the world to save it from danger and to
 restore order during some particular moment of
 disruption.
 Distinction is drawn between sky and astral per
sonalities who are perceived to live in the regions
 above the temporal world and who are generally
 concerned with climate, weather, cosmic events
 and other such heavenly activities, and those asso
ciated with the earth and its well-being. Thus
 deities of fertility, agriculture, the sea, domestic
 affairs and death are generally earth-bound and
 are described as chthonic.
 Two or more deities may be combined into a
 hybrid. Less than true syncretizations, such deities
 retain the hyphenated names of the original per
sonalities. Generally such hybridized deities are
 not given space. This is particularly appropriate in
Introduction to the First Edition xi
 the case of the Hindu pantheon where the effect
 would be to incorporate very large numbers of
 names representing little more than a fusion of
 two personalities detailed elsewhere in the encyclo
pedia. All significant avataras or incarnations of a
 deity are, however, included. In some cases we have
 no names for figures depicted in art, either because
 none are provided or because we cannot decipher
 them, but the iconic form is so well represented
 that academic circles have provided code letters
 e.g. those Mayan gods listed as God A, God B and
 so on. When it is generally assumed that a code
named figure is the same as a fully identified deity,
 the code name may be noted at the end of an entry.
 Where cross-references to other deities seem
 appropriate, these are included. The Romans were
 particularly prone to adopt Greek and Celtic
 deities, retaining more or less all the original per
sonality, but changing the name. Thus Zeus
 becomes Jupiter and Aphrodite is re-named Venus.
 Because of the numbers involved, no attempt
 has been made to indicate that a god mentioned in
 another’s entry has an entry of his or her own. But
 if a deity is named without explanation, as Seth in
 the story of Horus and vice versa, the reader will
 usually find that an entry exists for that deity.
 When a name originates in a script form other
 than Roman, e.g. Sanskrit, the nearest phonetic
 equivalent is provided in the spelling. In many
 instances, particularly where there has been Greek
 influence, the name given is the Hellenized ver
sion. Where applicable, the word Greek appears in
 [square brackets] as part of a heading: this applies
 to a number of Hellenized Egyptian deities whose
 Greek-style names are more commonly used; the
 original Egyptian name is then given at the end of
 the entry. The reader should be aware that other
 reference sources may interpret phonetics differ
ently and it is worth exploring possible alternative
 spellings if an entry is not immediately found. For
 illustration, the Greek god Asklepios may, in some
 other works, be entered as Asclepius. Spellings are
 generally those incorporated in the source refer
ence works cited in the bibliography. There are
 exceptions: the Loeb translations of Greek authors,
 for instance, tend to use “Romanized” spellings.
 Wherever applicable, a literal English translation
 of the meaning is given and alternative names and
 spellings may also be included under “synonyms”
 or at the end of the entry. If a form of a name is
 specific to a certain language or culture, this is also
 stated.
 It should be noted that in ancient Near Eastern
 pantheons, the sound sh is transcribed as s ˇ, and that
 in Baltic and some African languages, sh is tran
scribed as s. Generally, a c placed before the vowel
 sounds e or i is pronounced soft, like an s. In all
 cases z should be pronounced like the French j in
 jardin, though many people will prefer to employ
 the Anglicized pronunciation of names like Zeus.
 Although Encyclopedia of Gods represents the
 most comprehensive worldwide listing of deities
 available in a single volume, it makes no claim to be
 exhaustive. Aside from the reservations already
 stated, the volume of potential entries would make
 this an unrealistic objective. The gods of Hatti
 (Hittite), for example, are described as being “in
 excess of 10,000.” There are at least as many deities
 known to Japanese Shintoism. Many thousands
 more find their place in the Chinese pantheons.
 The volume therefore includes those names which
 a student or enthusiast of iconography or mythol
ogy would reasonably need to explore and which a
 casual reader or traveler might encounter in texts
 or inscriptions.
 One should always be aware that our present
day knowledge of the names and personalities of
 deities is strictly governed. In too many instances
 ethnologists have simply not bothered to investi
gate local faiths before they have been corrupted or
 obliterated by the more universal modern reli
gions. Primitive societies have often been reluctant
 to speak the names of deities to outsiders for fear
 of divine—or missionary—reprisal. Thus there 
are accountable geographical gaps in what might
 otherwise be a more complete survey.

ESTIMATED HISTORY KNOWN HISTORY
 SUMERIAN
 EGYPTIAN
 AUSTRALIAN
 ABORIGINAL
 AKKADIAN
BABYLONIAN
 HINDU
 HITTITE
HURRIAN
 GREEK
 HEBREW
 MAYAN
 CELTIC
 BUDDHIST
 ROMAN
 AFRICAN
 YORUBA
 POLYNESIAN
 NORDIC
ICELANDIC
 CHRISTIAN
 INCA
 AZTEC
 NZ MAORI
 ISLAMIC
 3000 BC 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 AD 500 1000 1500 2000 CULTURE
 Chronology of the Principal Religions and Cultures Covered in This Book

6
 A
 A-a
 Sun goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian) and western Semitic. Consort of the sun
 god S ˇAMASˇ. Also AYA.
 A’asˇ
 God of wisdom. Hittite and Hurrian. Derived
 from the Mesopotamian model of ENKI/EA. A’asˇ
 keeps the tablets of fate.
 Abandinus
 God of unknown affinities. Romano-Celtic
 (British). The name appears in an inscription at
 Godmanchester, Cambridge, England.
 Abellio
 Tree god. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Known from
 inscriptions in the Garonne valley of southwest
ern France and thought to be associated with
 apple trees.
 Abeona
 Goddess of passage. Roman. Linked with the
 goddess ADEONA, she is concerned with the safe
 going-out and coming-in of a child.
 Abgal
 1. Desert god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Known from the Palmyrian desert regions 
as a tutelary god of Bedouins and camel 
drivers.
 2. Minor attendant spirits. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian). Associated with ENKI and residing in
 the Abzu or primeval water.
 Abhijit (victorious)
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Puranic). A
 benevolent naksatra or astral deity; daughter of
 DAKSA and consort of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Abhijnaraja
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among a series of SMAN-BLA (medi
cine buddhas). Typically depicted with stretched
 earlobes. Color: red.
 Abhimukhi (friendly disposed)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of
 twelve deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple
 passes. Color: yellow. Attributes: book and 
staff.
 1
2 Abnoba
 Abnoba
 Forest and river goddess. Romano-Celtic (Conti
nental European). Known locally from the Black
 Forest region of Germany. The name “Avon,”
 associated with many rivers, derives from her
 name.
 Abonsam
 Malevolent spirit. West African. Recognized by
 tribes in the Gold Coast, etc. Traditionally driven
 away in an annual expulsion ritual by firing guns
 and shouting loudly, emptying houses of furniture
 and beating the interiors with sticks. The abonsam
 was finally driven into the sea. The ritual was pre
ceded by four weeks of total silence in the area.
 Abu
 Minor vegetation god. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). Said to have sprung from the head of the god
 ENKI, thus symbolizing plants emerging from the
 earth’s soil.
 Abundantia
 Minor fertility goddess. Roman. The personifica
tion of abundance. She continued in French myth
ology after the Roman occupation, as a lady who
 enters houses in the night, bringing prosperity.
 Abzu
 Primordial deity of underground waters, the
 “deep.” Mesopotamian (Sumerian). His center of
 cult is at Eridu (southern Mesopotamia), and he
 was replaced in Akkadian times by APSU.
 Ac Yanto (our helper)
 God of white men. Mayan (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. The brother of the creator god
 HACHACYUM. Responsible for the creation of
 European immigrants, including their possessions
 and products.
 Acacila
 Animistic spirit. Aymara Indian [Peru and
 Bolivia—Titicaca Basin]. One of a group of
 vaguely defined beings who control the weather,
 including rain, hail and frost.
 Acala (immovable)
 1. Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of
 twelve deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: white. Attributes: staff on a lotus.
 2. Tutelary god. Buddhist (Mahayana). Also a
 dikpala or guardian of the northeastern quarter.
 Color: blue. Attributes: jewel, lotus, staff and
 sword.
 Acan
 God of wine. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. Identified with the local
 brew, balche, made from fermented honey to
 which the bark of the balche tree has been added.
 Acat
 God of tattooers. Mayan (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico].
 Acca Larentia
 Obscure mother goddess. Roman. Believed in
 some traditions to be the mother of the LARES, but
 also the mother of the god HERCULES and the
 adopted mother of Romulus, the founder of Rome.
 She was celebrated in the Larentalia festival on 23
 December, which was also a feast of the dead.
Acchupta (untouched)
 Adibuddha 3
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Acolmiztli (shoulder-lion)
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the deities
 collectively classed as the MICTLANTECUHTLI
 complex.
 Acolnahuacatl
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the deities 
collectively classed as the MICTLANTECUHTLI
 complex.
 ADAD (wind)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 Weather god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1900 BC or
 earlier to circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Ramman (thunder); IS ˇKUR (Sumerian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Karakara and at Aleppo and
 Mari [Syria].
 ART REFERENCES reliefs, stelae, glyptics, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts including
 Atrahasis, inscriptions.
 Adad is derived from the older (Sumerian)
 model of Isˇkur. At Mari [Syria] he enjoyed a
 major cult following. Occasionally the subject
 of a sacred marriage ceremony in parts of
 Mesopotamia and Syria. His father is the
 supreme sky god ANU. He is described as a
 benevolent giver of life in the fields but is also a
 more violent storm god. His name in Akkadian
 cuneiform means “wind.” His animal is the bull.
 In human form he is depicted wearing horned
 headdress and tiered skirt or robe decorated with
 astral symbolism. He may carry a scimitar
 embellished with a single panther head and his
 symbol is the lightning fork often fixed upon a
 pair of pincers. 
See also HADAD [Syrian].
 Adamas
 Primordial creator being. Gnostic Christian
 (Nassene). Recognized locally in Phrygia [north
western Turkey] as an androgynous force in the
 cosmos.
 Adeona 
Goddess of passage. Roman. See ABEONA.
 Adhimukticarya
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of
 twelve deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: red. Attributes: red lotus and staff.
 Adhimuktivasita (control of confidence)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS or goddesses personifying the dis
ciplines of spiritual regeneration. Color: white.
 Attribute: flower bud.
 Adibuddha (the primeval buddha)
 The original BUDDHA. Buddhist. The primordial
 force in the cosmos from whom the five
 DHYANIBUDDHASarose. The embodiment of the
 concept of emptiness. He is considered by some
 authorities to be identical with Vaharaja and
 Vajrasattva. His image, sitting on a lotus leaf, is
 often carried by other Buddhist deities. Epithets
 include Svabhava (self-creating), Svayambhu
 (self-enlightened).
4 Adidharma
 Adidharma (the primeval law)
 Primordial goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Particularly worshiped in Lamaism, she is the
 SAKTI of ADIBUDDHA. Attributes: cup and knife.
 Adikia
 Goddess of injustice. Greek. An ugly figure who
 is depicted on the Kypselos Chest being throttled
 by the goddess of justice DIKE.
 Adimurti (the primeval personification)
 Form or avatara of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic
 and Puranic). Probably very similar to NARAYANA.
 Conventionally perceived as Visˇnu seated on the
 coils of the serpent SESA (Adisesa) and attended
 by two wives. Attributes: those of Visˇnu. Also Vai
kunthanatha, Paramapathanatha.
 Aditi (the free one)
 Archaic mother goddess. Hindu (Vedic). Accord
ing to the Rg Veda Aditi is said to be the wife of
 KASYAPA or of BRAHMA and mother of the
 ADITYAS, a group of minor gods including MITRA,
 ARYAMAN, BHAGA, VARUNA, DAKSA and Anisa. No
 other consort is mentioned in the literature. She is
 also accounted as the mother of HARI. Other leg
ends account her as the mother of the rain god
 INDRA. No human physical features are drawn,
 though she is sometimes identified in the guise of
 a cow. Aditi is also perceived as a guardian goddess
 who brings prosperity and who can free her devo
tees from problems and clear away obstacles. She
 disappears largely from later Hindu traditions.
 Aditya (descendant of Aditi)
 Collective name for sun gods. Hindu (Vedic and
 Puranic). These numbered six in Vedic times but
 later increased to twelve. The sons of the pri
mordial goddess ADITI. Also an epithet for SURYA.
 Attributes: two or more lotuses.
 ADONIS (lord)
 ORIGIN Hellenic name adopted predominantly
 in Phoenician and Syrian culture and based on
 an old western Semitic deity [Lebanon and
 Syria]. Fertility and vegetation god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 200 BC(Seleu
cid period) to circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS Adon (lord, Semitic).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT mainly at Berytus and Aphaca.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, plaques, votive ste
lae, glyptics, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES various literary texts (few
 inscriptions).
 Adonis is modeled on the Mesopotamian dying
 vegetation god DUMUZI (Hebrew: Tammuz). He
 appears as a youthful deity. The river Adonis
 [Nahr Ibrahim] is sacred to him largely because its
 waters flow red after heavy winter rains, having
 become saturated with ferrous oxide. In Hellenic
 tradition he is the son of the mythical Cyprian
 king Cinyras and his mother is MYRRHA. Accord
ing to Hesiod he is also the son of Phoenix and
 Alphesiboea. He is the consort of APHRODITE.
 Tradition has it that he was killed by a boar dur
ing a hunting expedition and is condemned to the
 underworld for six months of each year, during
 which the earth’s vegetation parches and dies
 under the summer sun and drought. He was hon
ored in a spring festival when priests in effeminate
 costume gashed themselves with knives. Fre
quently depicted nude and sometimes carrying a
 lyre. Also ATTIS (Phrygian); ATUNIS (Etruscan).
 Adrastea
 Mountain goddess. Hellenized Phrygian [north
western Turkey]. Probably derived from a local
AENGUS 5
 Anatolian mountain deity. Known from inscrip
tions in Greece from circa 400 BC as a deity who
 defends the righteous. It is uncertain whether she
 bears any link with the Celtic goddess ANDRASTA.
 Adro
 Tutelary god. Lugbara [Lake Albert, East Africa].
 The personification of grass fires and whirlwinds
 who, in antiquity, created mankind. Thought to
 live in the vicinity of rivers with many wives and
 children.
 Aeacos
 Chthonic underworld god. Greco-Roman. One
 of three judges of Hades assessing the souls of
 the dead entering the underworld (see also MINOS
 and RHADAMANTHOS). Identified by Plato as the
 son of ZEUS and Aigina. In the Theogony (Hesiod),
 Aeacos is also the consort of Psamathe and father
 of Phocos. Also Aiakos.
 Aed
 Chthonic underworld god. Celtic (Irish). Known
 from inscriptions. Aed mac Lir, son of LIR and
 Aobh was, according to tradition, turned into a
 swan by his stepmother, Aoife.
 AEGIR (water)
 ORIGIN Icelandic (Nordic). God of the ocean.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) but probably earlier, through to Chris
tianization (circa AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS none known.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known but probably
 enjoyed sanctuaries along the west coast of
 Norway and elsewhere in Nordic region.
 ART REFERENCES runic inscriptions; reliefs in
 metal and stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo).
 A lesser known AESIR god of Asgard concerned
 with the moods of the sea and their implications
 for mariners. The river Eider was known to the
 Vikings as “Aegir’s Door.” Aegir is also depicted
 in some poetry as the “ale brewer,” perhaps an
 allusion to the caldrons of mead which were
 thought to come from under the sea (see also the
 Celtic deities DAGDA and GOBNIU). There are
 references in literature to Saxons sacrificing 
captives, probably to Aegir, before setting sail
 for home. Linked in uncertain manner to the
 goddess RAN he was believed to have sired nine
 children, the waves of the sea, who were possi
bly giantesses.
 AENGUS
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Of uncertain status. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC or 
earlier until Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Mac Oc; Aengus Oc.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Brugh na Boinne (Valley of
 the Boyne).
 ART REFERENCES various monumental carvings
 and inscriptions.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings.
 The son of the DAGDA by “the wife of Elcmar”
 (one of the kings of Tara) who may have been
 the goddess BOANN, Aengus lived in the Valley 
of the Boyne and was closely linked with the
 ancient funerary tumuli in the region. According
 to legend, Aengus fell in love with a maiden
 whose identity he sought in vain. As he wasted
 away, his father and mother made enquiries 
until they located Caer, daughter of the king of
 Cannaught, who lived on Loch Bel Dragon in
 the shape of a swan with 150 attendant swans.
6 Aeolos
 AESIR
 Aengus eventually found her and he also
 changed into a bird.
 Aeolos
 God of storms and winds. Greek. One of the sons
 of POSEIDON, said to have presented the winds in
 a leather bag to the hero Odysseus, and to have
 given the sail to seafarers. According to legend his
 home was the Aeolian Island [Lipari Island]. In
 one legend he is married to EOS and is the father
 of six sons, the various directional winds. The
 hexagonal Temple of Winds, on each side of which
 is depicted a flying figure of one of the winds, and
 which is dedicated to Aeolos, still stands at Athens.
 Aeolus
 God of storms and winds. Roman. Derived
 from the Greek storm god AEOLOS, he is the
 consort of AURORA and the father of six sons,
 BOREAS the north wind, CORUS the northwest
 wind, AQUILO the west wind, NOTUS the south
west wind, Eurus the east wind and ZEPHYRUS
 the south wind.
 Aequitas
 Minor god. Roman. Spirit of fair dealing, known
 particularly from the second century BC.
 Aericura
 Chthonic underworld god. Romano-Celtic.
 Known only from inscriptions.
 Aesculapius
 God of healing. Roman. Developed from the
 Greek deity ASKLEPIOS and introduced into
 Rome in 293 BC as a plague god. Attributes
 include the caduceus (winged scepter), the symbol
 of modern medicine.
 ORIGIN Icelandic (Nordic). The major race of
 sky gods in Norse religion. 
KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD 700) but developed earlier, until Christian
ization (circa AD 1100) and in some instances
 beyond.
 SYNONYMS none known.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout areas of Nordic
 influence, particularly at Uppsala in Sweden.
 ART REFERENCES engraving on stone and wea
pons; other art objects etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); various classi
cal authors.
 The twelve Aesir gods are headed by OTHIN, the
 All-Father (see also the Koryak Siberian deity
 QUIKINN.A’QU) and probably are, in part, derived
 from a Germanic pantheon established in prehis
tory. The Aesir follow a common pattern whereby
 cultures establish a “senior” pantheon of great gods
 which usually number seven or twelve. Some of
 these are creator gods but do not necessarily
 include the archetypal founders of the cosmos. In
 mythology the Aesir exist in a realm known as
 Asgard, one of a number of heavens perceived in
 Nordic and Germanic lore. The gods live in great
 halls. Othin occupies Valaskjalf, roofed with silver,
 and in a separate building, Valhall, he assembles
 slain mortal heroes. These warriors will one day
 serve to defend Asgard in the final onslaught
 against the established order by the frost giants
 and other adversaries. The Aesir fought a primal
 battle with a rival group of gods, the VANIR. Their
 constant enemies, though, are the Frost Giants,
 the Midgard Serpent, a huge sea snake encircling
 the Nordic lands, and Fenrir, the great wolf who
 will catch and swallow the sun at the day of doom,
 Ragnarok. At that time it is foretold that the gods
 of Asgard will perish, and earth will be consumed
 by fire, finally to be cleansed by the rising waters
 of the sea before being born anew.
Aether
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab 7
 Primordial god of light. Greco-Roman. A
 remote cosmic deity, the son of EREBOS
 (darkness) and NYX (night) who overthrew 
these archetypal deities of chaos. In Hesiod’s
 Epic Cycle he is also described as the father of
 OURANOS.
 Agathos Daimon (good demon)
 God of fortune. Greco-Roman. Known locally
 from Alexandria and depicted in the form of a
 snake. May have originated as an androgynous
 fertility spirit, but later becomes identified as
 the consort of Agathe Tyche (see TYCHE). Liba
tions were made regularly to this deity after
 meals and he was regarded as a friendly house
hold guardian.
 Age
 God of animals. Fon [Benin, West Africa].
 Revered by hunters in the savannah regions.
 Aglibol
 Moon god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Known from Palmyra and linked with the sun
 god Yarhibol. The cult continued into Hellenic
 times and was later extended to Rome. Attributes
 include a sickle moon.
 AGNI (fire)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India]. God of fire.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC
 onward and still recognized.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT known throughout areas of
 Hindu influence.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs in metal
 and stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda and other texts.
 God of the sacrificial fire and the intercessor
 between gods and mankind, Agni is the son of
 KASYAPA and ADITI or, alternatively, of Dyaus
 and PRTHIVI. His consort is Svaha and, accord
ing to some texts, he is the father of the god
 SKANDA. In a destructive capacity he is seen as an
 aspect of the god S ˇIVA. He is also a guardian or
 dikpala of the southeastern quarter. In ancient
 hymns he is said to have been born in wood as
 the embryo life force of all trees and plants and
 he emerges when wood is rubbed together.
 Vehicles: a she-goat, or a chariot drawn by red
 horses or parrots. Color: red. 
Attributes: seven arms and sometimes the head
 of a goat, carrying a wide variety of objects.
 Agnikumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHAVANAVASI (dwelling in places).
 They have a youthful appearance and are associ
ated with rain and thunder.
 Agnostos Theos
 The unknown god(s) usually addressed in the plu
ral form. Greco-Roman. They were the subject of
 altar inscriptions, particularly in Athens, probably
 out of concern lest certain less popular deities be
 neglected or forgotten.
 Agu’gux
 Creator god. Aleut [Aleutian Islands]. The name
 given to the Christian god under Russian Ortho
dox influence.
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab (many generations)
 Chthonic fertility god. Mayan (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. A god identified with rain
 and thunder. Also strongly linked with agriculture
 and young crops. Possibly a vegetation avatara of
8 Ah Cancun
 the iguana god ITZAM NA. Attributes include a
 leaf-like ornament worn in the nose. Also God K.
 Ah Cancun
 Hunting god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of a number of deities in Mayan
 religion identified with the hunt and the protec
tion of animals. Also Acanum.
 Ah Chun Caan (he of the base of the sky)
 Local god. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The tutelary deity of the city of
 Merida. Mentioned in the Vienna Dictionary.
 Ah Ciliz
 God of solar eclipses. Mayan (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. He is said to eat the sun dur
ing an eclipse, but at other times attends upon the
 sun god, serving him meals.
 Ah Cuxtal (come to life)
 God of birth. Mayan (Lacandon, classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. Responsible for the safe
 delivery of women.
 Ah Hulneb (he of the spear thrower)
 God of war. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The local guardian deity of the city of
 Cozumel.
 Ah Kin (he of the sun)
 Sun god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. A deity of ambivalent personality, the young
 suitor of the moon goddess Acna, also the aged
 sun god in the sky. He is feared as the bringer of
 drought, but also protects mankind from the
 powers of evil associated with darkness. Said to be
 carried through the underworld at night on the
 shoulders of the god Sucunyum. Ah Kin is prayed
 to at sunrise and rituals include the burning of
 incense. He is invoked to cure illness and to bring
 wives to bachelors. Attributes include a square
 third eye subtended by a loop, a strong Roman
 nose, a squint and incisor teeth filed to a T-shape.
 Also Acan Chob (Lacandon); Chi Chac Chob;
 Kinich Ahau; God G.
 Ah Kin Xoc
 God of poetry. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Regarded as a great singer and 
musician since most Mayan poetry is sung or
 chanted. He may appear as a hummingbird and
 is considered by some authorities to be an
 avatara of the sun god. Also Ah Kin Xocbiltun;
 P’izlimtec.
 Ah Kumix Uinicob
 Attendant water gods. Mayan (Yucatec, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The four diminutive
 deities which take over from the giant AH PATNAR
 UINICOB deities during the dry season.
 Ah Mun
 Maize god. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The deity responsible for pro
tecting the unripe maize.
 Ah Muzencab
 Bee gods. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. The patron deities of apiarists still
 invoked in parts of the Yucatan. They are thought
 to be represented iconographically on the tops
 and bottoms of stone columns at the site of
 Chichen Itza as aged men with long beards and
AHURAMAZDA 9
 upraised arms. They wear loin cloths with dis
tinctive cross-hatching.
 Ah Patnar Uinicob (owners of the jars men)
 Attendant water gods. Mayan (Yucatec, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Four huge deities who
 pour water on to the earth from jars. The end of
 the dry season is marked on May 3, completing an
 eight-day rain ceremony.
 Ah Peku
 Thunder god. Mayan (Lacandon, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. He lives on the tops of
 hills and climbs into the clouds before it rains.
 Ah Tabai
 Hunting god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of a number of deities in Mayan
 religion identified with the hunt and the protec
tion of animals.
 Ah Uincir Dz’acab
 God of healing. Mayan (Chorti, classical Meso
american) [eastern Guatemala]. The patron of
 herbalists and concerned with the preparation of
 remedies, he is depicted as having male and
 female identities, each concerned with the healing
 of their respective sexes. Also Ah Uincir Kopot.
 Ah Uuc Ticab
 Chthonic god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Minor fertility and vegetation deity.
 Aha (grandmother)
 River spirit. Yakut [central Siberia]. The guardian
 and apotheosis of rivers.
 Ahriman
 Chthonic god of darkness. Zoroastrian (Farsi-Per
sian). The antagonist of AHURA MAZDA, god of
 light, and his attendant, MITHRA. The name is a
 modern derivation of the original Avestan title
 ANGRU MAINYU. Ahriman is said to have tried to
 persuade his attendant animals, including the scor
pion, ant and snake, to drink the blood of the bull
 slain by Mithra in the primeval legend of dualistic
 conflict (see Mithra); if he had succeeded he would
 have prevented life from forming on earth. In
 another legend he tried to thwart Ahura Mazda by
 sending a flood to destroy the world. Also recog
nized in Roman Mithraism. Rituals included ani
mal sacrifice. Also ARIMANIUS (Roman).
 AHURA MAZDA
 ORIGIN Persian [Iran]. God of light.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC to
 end of Roman Empire period, circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout ancient Near East
 during Persian and Roman Empire periods.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Avestia.
 Ahura Mazda probably originates as the Hindu
 Vedic god VARUNA. In Persian religion he
 becomes the god of light and truth in the Zoroas
trian concept of dualism. His chief attendant god
 is MITHRA(S) and his adversary is AHRIMAN, the
 god of darkness. According to tradition his first
 creation, a wild bull, was confined to a cave by
 MITHRAS. When it escaped, Mithras was charged
 with finding and slaying it. The bull’s blood fell to
 earth and from the drops life formed. Ahura
 Mazda is not mentioned in Roman Mithraic
 inscriptions but he is, by implication, the central
 figure in Mithraism. In the Mithraeum in Rome
 (S. Prisca), Ahura Mazda is considered to be a
 reclining figure on whom Mithras attends.
10 Ahurani
 Ajaya (invincible)
 Although never popular among the civilian pop
ulation, Mithraism spread under Flavius and was
 widespread among the Roman military, though it
 always enjoyed a greater following in the east than
 in the west. It was one symptom of the more gen
eral Roman return to sun worship. In AD 307, a
 sanctuary on the Danube was dedicated to
 Mithras (and Ahura Mazda) in an effort to sustain
 military power in the empire.
 Ahurani (mistress of Ahura)
 Fertility goddess. Zoroastrian (Persian). Invoked
 by ordinary people to bring prosperity and chil
dren. Water libations were a key part of the ritual.
 Ai Apaec
 Supreme god. Mochica Indian (pre-Columbian
 South America) [northern coast of Peru]. Probably
 originated as a jaguar god but came to rule the des
tinies of the world. He was thought to live like ordi
nary people and could reveal himself as man or god
 at will. He is depicted in anthropomorphic form,
 but with huge fangs and a cat-like wrinkled face
 with whiskers coming from his nose. He received
 sacrificial victims hurled from the top of a high cliff.
 Aides See HADES.
 Aine
 Obscure sky or sun goddess. Celtic (Irish). May
 have an association with horses.
 Ajalamo
 God of unborn children. Yoruba [Nigeria, West
 Africa]. According to legend, in some vague
 mythological realm there exist rows of shelves
 with spirits of the unborn. These are the respon
sibility of Ajalamo.
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Aje
 Goddess of wealth. Yoruba [Nigeria, West
 Africa]. She is thought to appear as a fowl scratch
ing the earth and, in creation mythology, was sent
 down with ODUDUWA, the earth goddess.
 Aji-Shiki-Taka-Hiko-Ne
 Rain god. Shinto [Japan]. One of the RAIJIN
 deities whose name is often linked with that of
 KAMO-WAKA-IKAZUCHI.
 Ajysyt
 Maternal spirit. Yakut [central Siberia]. The
 deity who oversees the lying-in of an expectant
 mother and who brings the child’s soul to the
 child-bed. The term ajysyt can also apply to a
 male spirit, thus the ajysyt that oversees the birth
 of horses is male, while that of horned cattle is
 female.
 Akasagarbha (essence of the sky)
 Astral god. Buddhist (Mahayana) and Lamaist
 [Tibet]. One of the BODHISATTVAS or spiritual
 meditation buddhas. He lives in the “womb of
 the sky.” Color: green. Attributes: book, jewel,
 lotus and sun disc. Also Khagarbha. In Japanese
 Buddhism this deity becomes the god Kokuzo.
 Akelos
 River god. Greek. The son of OKEANOS and
 TETHYS. According to mythology he was a rival
 suitor for Deianeira who became the wife of HER
AKLES. He was the consort of Melpomene and his
 daughters were allegedly the sirenes. A river of the
Ala 11
 same name runs into the Ionian Sea. Attributes
 include bull horns. Also Achlae (Etrurian).
 Aken
 Chthonic underworld god. Egyptian. The keeper
 of the underworld ferry boat.  
Aker
 Chthonic earth god of passage. Egyptian. Known
 from the Old Kingdom (circa 2700 BC onward).
 Controls the interface between eastern and west
ern horizons of the underworld, and is the
 guardian of the gate through which the king
 passes into the underworld. Aker provides a safe
 course for the barque of the sun god during its
 passage through the underworld at night. He may
 be seen as the socket holding the boat’s mast. He
 is also considered benevolent against snake bites.
 Represented by opposite facing pairs of human or
 lion heads.
 Akeru
 Pluralistic chthonic earth gods. Egyptian. Prob
ably stemming from the pre-Dynastic period.
 Malevolent deities who can seize and imprison
 the souls of the deceased.
 Akonadi
 Oracular goddess. Ghanaian [West Africa]. Known
 in the region around Accra where she has had a 
celebrated oracular shrine. She is regarded as a
 goddess of justice and a guardian deity of women.
 Akongo
 Creator god. Ngombe [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. The supreme deity con
sidered to have given the world, and all that is in
 it, form and substance.
 Aksayajnana-Karmanda (undecaying
 knowledge of Karma)
 Deification of literature. Buddhist. One of a
 group of twelve DHARANIS. Color: red. Attrib
utes: basket with jewels, and staff.
 AKSOBHYA (imperturbable)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The second dhyani
buddha or meditation buddha.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS Vajrasana; Vajraheruka.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric rit
ual texts.
 One of five mystic spiritual counterparts of a
 human buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism. A product
 of the ADIBUDDHA who represents the branch of
 the cosmos concerned with consciousness. He
 originates from the blue mantra HUM and lives in
 the eastern paradise Abhirati. His SAKTI is LOCANA
 and he is normally accompanied by two elephants.
 Color: blue. Attributes include bell, three monk
ish robes and staff, also jewel, lotus, prayer wheel
 and sword. Aksobhya may also be a tutelary deity
 in Lamaism [Tibet] in which case his attributes are
 similar. Emanations include HERUKA, MANJUSRI,
 VAJRAPANI and a large number of minor names. 
See also AMITABHA, AMOGHASIDDHI, RAT
NASAMBHAVA and VAIROCANA.
 Ala
 Chthonic fertility goddess. Ibo [eastern Nigeria,
 West Africa]. A popular deity who is also goddess
 of the underworld linked with a cult of the dead
 (which rest in her womb). Her temple is the Mbari
 which contains a cult statue depicting the goddess
 seated with a child in her arms and adorned with
12 Alad Udug Lama
 Alcis
 the crescent moon. She is flanked by attendant
 deities. She enjoys a profusion of local shrines
 which are well supplied with votive offerings. Seri
ous crimes including murder are considered to be
 offenses against her. An annual yam festival is cel
ebrated in her honor. Also Ale, Ana, ANI.
 Alad Udug Lama
 Collective name of guardian deities. Mesopo
tamian (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian).
 Vague spirits who accompany major deities and
 dispense good fortune.
 Alaisiagae
 Minor goddesses. Romano-Celtic (British). They
 are identified at Houseteads (Northumberland) in
 a shrine to Mars Thincsus.
 Alalu
 Primordial god. Hittite and Hurrian. The arche
typal deity who precedes AN(U) in the formation
 of the cosmos. He was identified by the Greeks as
 HYPSISTOS (the highest).
 Alatangana
 Creator god. Kono [eastern Guinea, West Africa].
 One of two creator deities; the other is SA. ALA
TANGANA created land from swamp and placed
 vegetation on earth.
 VAJRAPANI and a large number of minor names. 
See also AMITABHA,AMOGHASIDDHI,RATNASAM
BHAVA and VAIROCANA.
 Alaunus
 Local god. Romano-Celtic (Continental Euro
pean). Known from areas around Mannheim and
 Salzburg. The Romans syncretized him with
 Unknown status. Germanic and possibly Ice
landic (Nordic). The Alcis are twin deities
 (brothers) known only as sons of the sky gods.
 From Germanic times we have a La Tene urn
 with pictures of paired men on horseback and
 linked by a wooden beam. Tacitus describes the
 worship of twin gods by the Naharvali tribe, their
 priests dressed in effeminate costume (see also
 the Phrygian deity ATTIS). They may have been
 worshiped in forest sanctuaries along the north
ern coast of Europe.
 Alemona
 Goddess of passage. Roman. Concerned with the
 health of the unborn child.
 Alisanos
 Local chthonic earth god. Romano-Celtic (Gal
lic). Known only from inscription in the region of
 the Côte d’Or and associated with the land. Also
 Alisonus, Alisanus.
 Alk’unta’m
 Sun god. Bella Coola Indian [British Columbia,
 Canada]. Linked closely with SENX, both are of
 equal significance. His mother is a cannibal
 woman, Nunuso’ mikeeqone’im, who can turn
 into a mosquito.
 ALLAH
 ORIGIN Nabataean and Arabic. Derived from the
 western Semitic god Il.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 300 BC until
 present.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Mecca [Saudi Arabia].
 ART REFERENCES none.
 MERCURIUS.
 LITERARY SOURCES Qur’an.
AMATERASU-O-MI-KAMI 13
 The creator god of Islam. Perceived in pre
Islamic times as the creator of the earth and water.
 Named by the prophet Muhammad as the one
 true god and given a hundred names or epithets
 in the Qur’an, ninety-nine of which are known to
 mankind and accounted on the rosary beads; the
 final name remains a mystery. No representation
 of Allah is made in art.
 Allat (goddess)
 Astral and tutelary goddess. Pre-Islamic northern
 and central Arabian. One of the three daughters
 of ALLAH. At Palmyra she was regularly invoked
 as a domestic guardian either as Allat or ASTARTE
 with whom she is closely linked. At Ta’if she was
 symbolized in the form of a white granite stone.
 In Hellenic times she became syncretized with
 ATHENA or, according to Herodotus who called
 her Alilat, with APHRODITE. 
See also ATARSˇAMAIN.
 Allatu(m)
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Western Semitic.
 Modeled on the Mesopotamian goddess ERESˇ
KIGAL and possibly also equating with ARSAY in
 Canaanite mythology. Recognized by the
 Carthaginians as Allatu.
 Almaqah
 Tutelary astral god. Pre-Islamic southern Ara
bian. Worshiped by the Saba tribe, his sacred ani
mal is the bull. Attributes include lightning bolts
 and a sinuate weapon.
 Alpanu
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Etruscan.
 Depicted wearing jewels, a loose cloak and san
dals but otherwise naked. Also arguably a goddess
 of sexual love.
 Ama-arhus
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Mentioned in texts as being among
 the pantheon at Uruk in Hellenistic times but
 also found as an earlier manifestation of the god
 GULA. Also Arad-Ama-arhus, Amat-Ama-arhus.
 Amaethon
 God of agriculture. Celtic (Welsh). A son of DON
 and brother of GWYDION, he is known from a
 limited number of Welsh texts and was engaged
 in a mythical battle against the ARAWN. Associ
ated with ploughing and husbandry. The modern
 Welsh name for a farmer is amaethwr.
 Amas ˇagnul
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Mentioned in prebend documents
 from the Hellenistic period at Uruk and thought
 to be the consort of the god PAPSUKKAL.
 AMATERASU-O-MI-KAMI
 ORIGIN Shinto [Japan]. Sun goddess. 
KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa AD600or ear
lier until present.
 SYNONYMS Shinmei; O-Hiru-Me-No-Muchi;
 Tensho-Ko-Daijin. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Ise Naiku shrine; many oth
ers throughout Japan.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and paintings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Nihongi; Kojiki (Japanese
 sacred texts).
 The central figure of Shintoism and the ancestral
 deity of the imperial house. One of the daughters
 of the primordial god IZANAGI and said to be his
 favorite offspring, she was born from his left eye.
 She is the sibling of SUSANO-WO, the storm god.
 According to mythology she and Susano-Wo
 are obliged to join each other in order to survive.
14 Ama-Tsu-Mara
 Susano-Wo ascends with her to heaven but is
 thrown out after trying to enter her house and
 committing various excesses. Amaterasu refuses
 to be sullied and obstinately hides herself away in
 a cave. It requires the combined diplomacy and
 craft of many other deities to persuade her to
 come out. The lure is the “perfect divine mirror”
 in which she sees her reflection. The birth of the
 two deities is considered to mark the transition
 between cosmic and material genesis.
 The Ise Naiku sanctuary is visited by about five
 million devotees each year and Amaterasu takes
 pride of place in every family shrine. Sometimes
 her shrines are placed adjacent to those of
 Susano-Wo. She is also the tutelary goddess of
 the emperor. Hers tends to be a monotheistic cult
 in which all other deities take a subservient place.
 Though powerful she does not always succeed
 and is often subject to attack. She has been
 arguably identified with the god VAIROCANA in
 Buddhist religion.
 Ama-Tsu-Mara
 God of smiths. Shinto [Japan]. Depicted as a 
one-eyed ithyphallic god comparable to the
 Greek Cyclopes. He is strongly instrumental in
 fashioning the “perfect divine mirror” with which
 the sun goddess, AMATERASU, is lured from her
 cave. Also Ma-Hiko-Tsu-No-Kami.
 Amaunet (the hidden one)
 Fertility goddess. Egyptian (Upper). Amaunet
 seems to have a taken a role as an early consort of
 AMUN, one of the eight deities of the OGDOAD and
 representing hidden power. In that context she is
 depicted anthropomorphically but with the head
 of a snake. She is shown in reliefs and as the sub
ject of a notable statue from the Record Hall of
 Tuthmosis III at the Karnak complex of Thebes,
 where she was recognized as a benign protective
 deity especially called on at times of royal acces
sion. As a fertility goddess she was largely eclipsed
 by the goddess MUT. She is sometimes equated
 with NEITH, the creator goddess of Sais, and her
 attributes may include the red crown of the Delta.
 Ame-No-Kagase-Wo
 Astral deity. Shinto [Japan]. The most important
 of the star KAMI said to have been executed by the
 god FUTSU-NUSHI because he would not be paci
fied during the process of cosmic genesis.
 Ame-No-Mi-Kumari-No-Kami
 Water goddess. Shinto [Japan]. One of the daugh
ters of MINATO-NO-KAMI, the god of river mouths
 and estuaries, she is known as the “heavenly water
 divider” and her cult is linked with that of Kuni
No-Mi-Kumari-No-Kami.
 AME-NO-MINAKA-NUSHI-NO
KAMI (the deity master of the august center
 of heaven)
 ORIGIN Shinto [Japan]. Supreme god. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 600 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS none significant.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Kojiki (Japanese sacred text).
 The highest deity of the Shinto pantheon and the
 first to emerge in Takama-No-Hara (the plain of
 high heaven) when heaven and earth were fash
ioned. He was born alone, resides in the ninth
 heaven and has always hidden himself from mor
tal eyes. A remote and vague figure of whom no
 images are ever made and toward whom no cult is
 directed. His name only appears once in the Kojiki
 and never in the Nihongi. Originally his identity
AMITABHA 15
 may have been strongly influenced by Chinese
 religion. His name is linked closely with those of
 two other lesser primordial beings, TAKA-MI-MIS
UBI-NO-KAMI and KAMI-MISUBI-NO-KAMI.
 Ame-No-Tanabata-Hime-No-Mikoto
 Astral goddess of weavers. Shinto [Japan]. One of
 two star apotheoses who are, according to tradi
tion, deeply in love with each other. Her partner
 is HIKOBOSHI. Her name is generally abbreviated
 to Tanabata, the title of a festival in honor of the
 goddess which became a national event in Japan
 in AD 755. The festival later became merged with
 the Tibetan Bon Ullumbana festival of the dead.
 Also Shokujo.
 Ame-No-Toko-Tachi-No-Kami (deity
 standing eternally in heaven)
 Primordial being. Shinto [Japan]. The fifth of the
 deities to emerge in the heavens, named in both
 the sacred texts of Shintoism, the Kojiki and
 Nihongi, but probably strongly influenced by Chi
nese religion. Born from a reed floating in the
 primeval waters. 
See also UMASHI-ASHI-KABI-HIKO-JI-NO-KAMI.
 Ame-No-Uzume
 Goddess of dancers. Shinto [Japan]. She plays a
 part in enticing the sun goddess, AMATERASU,
 from her cave using the perfect divine mirror.
 Ame-Waka-Hiko (heavenly young prince)
 God. Shinto [Japan]. According to tradition he
 was sent to earth on a vital mission but became
 preoccupied with a number of mortal women,
 forgot his purpose and did not report back to
 heaven. His punishment was to be slain by an
 arrow fired from the “heavenly true deer bow.”
 Am-Heh
 Chthonic underworld god. Egyptian. A minor
 deity said to inhabit a lake of fire. The so-called
 “devourer of the millions.” Depicted with the
 head of a hound.
 Amida
 Primordial deity. Buddhist (Japanese). The Japan
ese equivalent of AMITABHA recognized from the
 eleventh and twelfth centuries AD.
 Amimitl
 Minor god of lakes and fish hunters. Aztec 
(classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 deities collectively classed as the MIXCOATL
CAMAXTLI complex.
 AMITABHA (of unmeasured splendor)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The fourth dhyani
buddha or meditation buddha. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS Vajradharma and possibly Amitayaus.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric rit
ual texts.
 One of five mystic spiritual counterparts of a
 human buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism. A product
 of the Adibuddha who represents the branch of
 the cosmos concerned with consciousness. He
 originates from the red mantra HRIH and lives in
 the western paradise Sukhavati. The cult may
 have been influenced by Iranian light religions.
 His SAKTI is PANDARA and he is normally accom
panied by two peacocks. Color: red. Attributes:
 lock of hair, lotus, monk’s robe and water jar.
16 Amm
 Ammut (devouress of the dead)
 Amitabha is also taken as a tutelary god in
 Lamaism [Tibet] in which case his attributes
 include bell, jewel and three monkish robes. Ema
nations include PADMAPANI, MANJUSRI and many
 other minor names. 
See also AKSOBHYA, AMOGHASIDDHI, RAT
NASAMBHAVA and VAIROCANA.
 Amm
 Moon god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian. The
 tutelary deity of the Qataban tribe. Also revered as
 a weather god. Attributes include lightning bolts.
 Amma (1)
 Local tutelary god. Dravidian (Tamil). Known
 from southern India.
 Amma (2)
 Creator god. Dogon [Mali, West Africa]. He
 first created the sun by baking a clay pot until it
 was white hot and coiling a band of copper
 around it eight times. He created the moon in
 similar fashion but used brass. Black people 
were created from sunlight and white from
 moonlight. Later, having circumcised the 
earth goddess, whose clitoris was an anthill, he
 impregnated her and produced the first crea
ture, a jackal. Next he fertilized her with rain to
 engender plant life and finally became the father
 of mankind.
 Ammavaru
 Primordial mother goddess. Hindu-Dravidian.
 Known locally from east central India and wor
shiped by the Dravidian tribe of Telugu. She is
 said to have generated the cosmic egg in the sea
 of milk from which the major gods BRAHMA,
 VISˇNU and S ˇIVA were born.
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Egyptian. A sig
nificant deity who allegedly consumes the dead if
 their hearts are found weighed down with guilt in
 the Judgment Hall of the Two Truths during the
 Weighing of the Heart ceremony. Ammut has a
 fearsome aspect and sits alongside forty-two juror
 gods named in the Book of the Dead. Depicted with
 the head of a crocodile, the trunk and fore-limbs
 of a lion and the hind part of a hippopotamus. 
See also THOTH and MAAT.
 Amoghapasa
 God. Buddhist. A variety of AVALOKITESVARA,
 depicted with one head and six, eight or twenty
 hands. Attributes: arrow, bell, lotus, noose, prayer
 wheel, rosary, staff and tiger skin.
 AMOGHASIDDHI (unfailing power)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The fifth dhyanibuddha
 or meditation buddha. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS Kharmaheruka. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic. 
ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric 
ritual texts.
 One of five mystic spiritual counterparts of a
 human buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism. A product
 of the ADIBUDDHA who represents the branch of
 the cosmos concerned with consciousness. He
 originates from the green mantra HUM and lives
 in the northern paradise. His SAKTI is ARYA-TARA
 and he is normally accompanied by two GARUDAS
 or dwarfs. Color: green. Attributes: staff and
 sometimes seven-headed snake. Amoghasiddhi is
 also taken as a tutelary deity in Lamaism [Tibet]
AMUN 17
 in which case his attributes include bell, three
 monkish robes and prayer wheel. Emanations
 include Visvapani and many other minor names. 
See also AKSOBHYA, AMITABHA, RATNASAMB
HAVA and VAIROCANA.
 Amor
 God of love. Roman. Developed from the Greek
 god EROS. Depicted as a winged youth. According
 to tradition he awoke the goddess Psyche with a
 kiss. Attributes include arrows, bow and torch. The
 popular epithet Cupid was only applied by poets.
 Amphion
 God. Greek. Theban variant on the god POLY
DEUKES.
 Amphitrite
 Sea goddess. Greek. According to Theogony (Hes
iod), one of the fifty daughters of NEREUS and
 DORIS. Considered to calm stormy seas, traveling
 in a boat made of mussels. She was among those
 present at the birth of APOLLO.
 AMUN (the hidden one)
 ORIGIN Egypt. Supreme creator god. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP probably pre
Dynastic but historically circa 2400 BC to end of
 Egyptian period (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Amun kem-atef (snake god); Amun
 kamutef (fertility god).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Thebes (Luxor)—Great
 Temple of Amun at Karnak; Luxor Temple
 south of Karnak dedicated to the ithyphallic
 form of Amun kamutef.
 ART REFERENCES many portraits on temple walls,
 etc; reliefs; statues; obelisks including notably
 that of Queen Hatshepsut; stelae.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts from the end
 of Dynasty V (2494-2345 BC); temple hymns;
 the Book of the Dead; the Great Harris Papyrus;
 many other textual references.
 Amun is a sun god, lord of the sky and king of the
 Egyptian world. He is perceived as a primeval
 deity present in chaos at the creation of the cos
mos and is therefore also one of the eight deities
 of the OGDOAD coupled with the goddess
 AMAUNET and representing hidden power. He is
 portrayed as a pharaoh, with blue skin and wear
ing a modius (turban) surmounted by two tall
 plumes of feathers symbolic of dominance over
 both Upper and Lower Egypt. In addition to the
 major temples at Luxor, further sanctuaries were
 built beyond the first Nile cataract at Amada,
 Soleb, Gebel Barkal and Abu Simbel.
 Amun is symbolized chiefly by a ram with
 curved horns. The Nile goose is also sacred to
 him. He is a god regarded as hidden but spread
ing throughout the cosmos, unseen but every
where. Though depicted anthropomorphically, in
 temple hymns other deities describe him as “hid
den of aspect, mysterious of form.” In the New
 Kingdom, from the middle of the sixteenth cen
tury BC onward, Amun was drawn as a manifesta
tion of the ancient sun god of Heliopolis, which
 effectively raised his prestige still further and
 earned him the title “king of the gods.” He was
 also regarded as being the father of each pharaoh.
 At Thebes he was revered as a snake deity with
 attendant connotations of immortality and end
less renewal. As a member of the Ogdoad he has
 the head of a snake.
 Amun’s ithyphallic form probably came from
 the notion that because he was “first formed” of
 the gods, he could not have a father and therefore
 had to impregnate his own mother. He is gener
ally regarded as a god with great sexual attributes.
 The Temple of Queen Hatsepsut at Deir el
Bahari bears a relief of her mother impregnated
18 Amurru
 by Amun. A similar scene exists in the Temple of
 Amenhotep III at Luxor. The Great Hall of
 Hypostyle is filled with wall paintings of Amun
 and the pharaoh, and contains several proces
sions honoring Amun. By the twelfth century BC
 the Amun priesthood was a powerful force in
 Egypt, leading to the eventual contest between
 Amun and ATEN, the god “created” by Amen
hotep IV. Amun’s eclipse was short-lived and he
 returned to prominence until the end of Egypt
ian history.
 Amurru
 Mountain god. Western Semitic. A minor consort
 of ATHIRAT whose attributes include a shepherd’s
 crook and who was probably worshiped by
 herders. Known mainly from inscriptions. Also
 MARTU.
 AN (1) (sky)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq].
 Supreme creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 2000 BC but continuing as Babylonian creator
 god (see Anu) until 100 BC or later.
 SYNONYMS ANU (Akkadian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Unug [modern Warka]. 
ART REFERENCES none known but probably rep
resented symbolically on seals and seal impres
sions from third millennium onward.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts including
 Sumerian creation accounts, and the Babylon
ian epic Enuma Elisˇ.
 In Sumerian creation mythology An is the
 supreme being and, with his chthonic female
 principle, KI, is the founder of the cosmos. Also,
 in some texts, identified as the son of ANSˇAR and
 KISˇAR. The head of the older generation of gods.
 He is believed to have formed the basis for the
 calendar and is arguably first represented in
 bovine form having been derived from the old
 herders’ pantheon. He is identified in some texts
 as the “bull of heaven.” According to legends,
 heaven and earth were once inseparable until An
 and Ki bore a son, ENLIL, god of the air, who
 cleaved heaven and earth in two. An carried away
 heaven. Ki, in company with Enlil, took the earth.
 An is also paired with the goddess NAMMU by
 whom he fathered ENKI. Patron god of Unug
 (Erech in the Vetus Testamentum), An is always a
 remote shadowy figure who occasionally lends a
 hand to tilt the balance of fate but otherwise tends
 to be out of touch with the day-to-day affairs of
 heaven and earth.
 His main sanctuary is the Eanna temple. After
 the Semitic takeover of Sumer by Sargon the
 Great circa 2500 BC, Enlil supersedes him as
 supreme national god of the Sumerian city
 states.
 An (2)
 Possibly a female principle of the creator god AN.
 Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Early iconography
 suggests a celestial sky goddess in the form of a
 cow whose udders produce rain and who becomes
 ANTU(m) in the Akkadian pantheon.
 Anaitis
 Fertility goddess. Persian [Iran]. Her influence
 extended through eastern Europe. In pre-Chris
tian Armenia, the center of her cult was at
 Acilisena where noble families regularly surren
dered their daughters to service as cultic prosti
tutes.
 Anala (fire)
 Attendant god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group
 of eight Vasu deities answering to the god INDRA.
Ananke
 Anaulikutsai’x 19
 Goddess of destiny. Greek. Considered to be a
 universal presence. Depicted holding a spindle.
 Ananta
 Snake god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group of
 seven snake deities or MAHANAGAS.
 Anantamukhi (with the face of Ananta)
 Deification of literature. Buddhist. One of a
 group of twelve DHARANIS. Color: green. Attrib
utes: staff and water jar with treasure.
 Anantesa
 Minor deity. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group of
 eight emancipated “lords of knowledge” or
 VIDYESVARAS considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 ANAT
 ORIGIN Canaanite and Phoenician [northern
 Israel, Lebanon and Syria]. Fertility and war
 goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP From prehistoric
 times (circa 2500 BC) until AD 200 or later.
 SYNONYMS Anath; Lady of the Mountain; Antit
 (Egyptian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Ugarit [Ras S ˇamra] and gen
erally in places down the corn-growing coastal
 regions of the eastern Mediterranean.
 ART REFERENCES named specifically in Egyptian
 hieroglyphic on a stele from Bethsan; described
 on various other votive inscriptions, clay
 plaques etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ugaritic texts from Ras
 S
 ˇamra; various offering lists.
 The sister of BAAL, Anat is primarily a fertility
 goddess. In art she is usually depicted naked,
 with breasts and vaginal area prominent. Often
 she wears a coiffure similar to that of the Egypt
ian goddess HATHOR, with whom at times she
 has been closely linked. Anat is described vari
ously as “mother of the gods” and “mistress of
 the sky.” In addition to her fertility role, she is a
 youthful and aggressive goddess of war, a capac
ity in which she was adopted by Egypt from the
 end of the Middle Kingdom (early eighteenth
 century BC) and particularly through the Hyksos
 Dynasty when she was prominent in Lower
 Egypt. A sanctuary was dedicated to her at Tanis
 and she was identified as a daughter of the sun
 god RE with warlike attributes of lance, battle-ax
 and shield. She impressed Rameses II whose
 daughter was called Bin-Anat (daughter of
 Anat). Rameses III adopted her as his “shield” in
 battle.
 The Ras S ˇamra stele describes her as “Antit,
 queen of heaven and mistress of all the gods.”
 Known as the “virgin Anat,” she indulged in
 orgies of violence “wading up to her thighs in
 blood and gore.” She may be one of a triad of
 goddesses with ATHIRAT and Asˇera. In the classic
 Canaanite confrontation legend, after the pri
mordial battle between good and evil in the guise
 of Baal and MOT, Anat searched out the body of
 Baal. She buried it and caught up with his slayer,
 Mot, to take appropriate retribution. She cleaved
 and winnowed, burned and ground Mot in a curi
ous variation of a common theme associated else
where with gods of vegetation (see OSIRIS). She
 also features in the Legend of Aqhat, in which she
 sends an eagle to slay the youth when he refuses
 to give her his magical bow.
 Anaulikutsai’x
 River goddess. Bella Coola Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. Said to oversee the arrival
 and departure of the salmon in the rivers. She
 lives in a cave called Nuskesiu’tsta.
20 Anbay
 Anbay
 Local tutelary god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian.
 Regarded as a god of justice and an oracular
 source attending the moon god AMM.
 Ancamna
 Water goddess. Romano-Celtic (Continental
 European). Known only from inscriptions at
 Trier.
 Andarta
 Fertility goddess (probable). Celtic (Gallic).
 Patron goddess of the Vocontii tribe. Her name
 seems to have derived either from artos (bear) or
 ar (ploughed land). 
See also ANDRASTA.
 Andjety
 Chthonic underworld god. Egyptian (Lower).
 Minor deity in anthropomorphic form known
 from the Pyramid Texts. Identified with the
 ninth nome (district). Responsible for rebirth in
 the afterlife and regarded as a consort of several
 fertility goddesses. He was revered at Busiris
 where he clearly heralded the cult of Osiris.
 Attributes: high conical crown (similar to the
 atef crown of Osiris) decorated with two tall
 plumes, crook and flail. In early Pyramid Texts,
 the feathers are replaced by a bicornuate uterus. 
See also Osiris.
 Andrasta
 Goddess of war. Romano-Celtic (British). The
 patron goddess of the Iceni tribe. The warrior
 queen Boudicca is reported to have prayed to her
 before battle and she was the recipient of human
 sacrifice. Andrasta does not appear in Celtic Gaul,
 though a deity called Andraste is mentioned by the
 Roman writer Dio Cassius. The name may also be
 linked to the goddess Andarta. Also Adrastea.
 Anextiomarus
 Local tribal deity. Romano-Celtic (British). God
 of uncertain affinities but linked with APOLLO.
 Angru Mainyu (evil spirit)
 Chthonic underworld god of darkness. Persian
 [Iran]. The original Zoroastrian name of the chief
 antagonist of AHURA MAZDA. 
See also AHRIMAN.
 Anhouri
 Minor god. Egyptian. A deity whose mummy was
 allegedly kept at Tanis.
 Ani
 Sky god. Etruscan. Identified as residing in the
 highest heaven and sometimes depicted with two
 faces, equating possibly with the Roman god
 JANUS.
 Anila (wind)
 Attendant god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group
 of eight VASU deities answering to the god INDRA.
 Anjea
 Animistic fertility spirit. Australasia. Known to
 tribesmen on the Pennefather River, Queensland,
 Australia and believed to place mud babies in the
 wombs of pregnant women. The grandmother of
 a newly born infant buried the afterbirth, which
 was collected by Anjea and kept in a hollow tree
 or some such sanctuary until the time came to
 instill it into another child in the womb.
Ankalamman
 Anu (1) 21
 Guardian goddess. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil).
 Known particularly in southern India where she
 wards off demons. Alternatively she is an aspect of
 KALI.
 Anna Kuari
 Local vegetation goddess. Indian. Worshiped by
 the Oraon tribe of Chota Nagpur. The recipient
 of human sacrifice in the spring months, she was
 believed to endow riches on the sacrificer and to
 ensure plentiful harvest while living in his house
 in the form of a child.
 Anna Perenna
 Protective goddess. Roman. Allegedly she saved the
 plebeians from famine in their conflict with the
 patricians in ancient Roman mythology. An open
air festival dedicated to her was held on March 15
 each year in a grove lying to the north of Rome.
 Annamurti
 Form of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Puranic). The
 patron deity of kitchens and food. A shrine at Sri
rangam in southern India contains two-armed
 bronze images of the god. Attributes: a ball of
 rice in one hand, and in the other a container of
 payasa (sweetened milk and rice).
 Ansa
 Minor sun god. Hindu (Puranic). One of six
 ADITYA descendants of ADITI.
 Ans ˇar
 Primordial deity. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Mentioned in the Babylonian creation
 epic Enuma Elisˇ as one of a pair of offspring (with
 KISˇAR) of LAHMU and LAHAMU, and who in turn
 created ANU. Ansˇar is linked with heaven while
 Kisˇar is identified with earth.
 Anti
 Guardian deity. Egyptian (Upper). Seems to have
 become assimilated with HORUS and was one of
 the protectors of the eastern sky in which the sun
 rises. According to some texts he is also responsi
ble for the decapitation of the goddess HATHOR in
 a conflict for the throne of Egypt. Anti is known
 from Middle Kingdom coffin texts (circa 2000 BC).
 Depicted as a falcon, or a human with a falcon’s
 head, standing on a crescent-shaped barque.
 ANTU
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian)
 [Iraq]. Creator goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC, but
 evolving from prehistory, to circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Antum; ANUNITU.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Uruk and Babylon.
 ART REFERENCES glyptics, stone carvings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Babylonian creation epic
 Enuma Elisˇ and documents relating to the akitu
 festival.
 Antu is a Babylonian goddess derived from the
 older Sumerian KI, though the cosmogony has
 been altered to suit a separate tradition. The con
sort of the god of heaven, ANU, she was a domi
nant feature of the Babylonian akitu festival until
 as recently as 200 BC, her later pre-eminence pos
sibly attributable to identification with the Greek
 goddess HERA.
 Anu (1)
 Creator god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Consort of ANTU(m). Derived from
22 Anu (2)
 the older Sumerian god AN. Anu features strongly
 in the akitu festival in Babylon, Uruk and other
 cities until the Hellenic period and possibly as
 late as 200 BC. Some of his later pre-eminence
 may be attributable to identification with the
 Greek god of heaven, ZEUS, and with OURANOS.
 Anu (2)
 Chthonic mother goddess. Celtic (Irish). Closely
 associated with fertility and the primordial
 mother of the TUATHA DE DANANN. Twin hills
 near Killarney in Munster are called “The Paps of
 Anu.” Also Ana.
 ANUBIS [Greek]
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Mortuary god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2700 BC (but
 extending from pre-Dynastic times) until end
 of Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Imy-ut (he who is in the mortuary);
 Khenty-imentiu (chief of the westerners);
 Khenty-seh-netjer (chief of the gods’ pavilion);
 Neb-ta-djeser (lord of the sacred land); Tepy
dju-ef (he who is upon the mountain).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT the necropolis at Memphis
 and elsewhere.
 ART REFERENCES tomb effigies, wall paintings,
 statuettes etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; funerary texts
 and hymns.
 The parentage of Anubis is confused but the most
 popular notion seems to place him as a son of RE
 and of NEPHTHYS or ISIS. The god of mortuaries,
 Anubis takes the form of a black dog or jackal
 usually in a lying down or crouching position,
 ears pricked and long tail hanging. He wears a
 collar with magical connotations. Less often he
 appears in human form with a canine head. The
 imagery of a dog probably originated from obser
vation of bodies being scavenged from shallow
 graves and the desire to protect them from such
 a fate by manifesting Anubis as a dog himself.
 The Book of the Dead has him standing by the
 scales in which the heart is weighed in the Hall of
 the Two Truths, and he is sometimes known as
 the “claimer of hearts.” Anubis was perceived to
 superintend the embalming of kings and courtiers
 in the mortuary and the subsequent binding with
 linen bandages. His coat color is thought to be
 black because of the color of the corpse after the
 embalming process, which darkened it, and the
 use of black tar to seal the bindings. His symbol
 in the context of mortuary god is an animal skin,
 headless, dripping blood and tied to a pole. At
 the subsequent funeral ceremony of the Opening
 of the Mouth the priest wore a jackal headdress.
 The main cemetery sites are on the west bank of
 the Nile where the sun sets, hence one epithet for
 Anubis—“chief of the westerners”; another, “he
 who is upon the mountain,” conjures an image of
 Anubis watching over the cemeteries from the
 high escarpments.
 In the Greco-Roman period he became a cos
mic deity of earth and sky somewhat removed
 from his older function.
 Anukis [Greek]
 Birth goddess. Egyptian (Upper). Minor deity
 with cult centers in lower Nubia and at Elephan
tine. She is variously the daughter of RE, and of
 KHNUMand SATIS. Anukis lives in the cataracts of
 the Lower Nile. Her portrait appears in the Tem
ple of Rameses II at Beit-et-Wali where she suck
les the pharaoh, suggesting that she is connected
 with birth and midwifery, but she also demon
strates a malignant aspect as a strangler (see
 HATHOR). Her sacred animal is the gazelle.
 Depicted anthropomorphically wearing a turban
 (modius) with ostrich feathers. Also Anuket
 (Egyptian).
Anu-Mate
 Aparajita 23
 God of space. Polynesian. One of the sons of
 RANGINUI by Pokoharua, the sister of TANGAROA,
 the sea god. He belongs to a group of deities
 engendered at the time of creation that includes
 ANU-MATE, Anu-Matao, Anu-Whakarere and
 Anu-Whakatoro, all of whom rule over different
 aspects of space above the upper world. Anu
Mate is perceived as the god responsible for the
 “space of cold death” and in fact all of the group
 are envisaged as deities ruling over realms of great
 cold.
 Anunitu
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). 
See also ANTU.
 Anunnaki
 Children and courtiers of the god of heaven.
 Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akka
dian). Known from at least 2500 BC until circa 200
 BC (in Babylon). The Anunnaki originate as
 chthonic fertility deities but later feature as the
 seven fearsome judges of the underworld who
 answer to Kur and ERESˇKIGAL and who are
 responsible for passing sentences of death includ
ing that placed on the goddess INANA. They are
 often closely identified with the IGIGI.
 Anuradha
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Puranic). A
 benevolent NAKSATRA or astral deity, daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Aondo
 Creator god. Tiv [central Nigeria, West Africa].
 An abstract principle who lives in the sky. He
 sends the sun each morning, roars with the thun
der which heralds his storms and is the creator of
 the earth.
 Apa
 Attendant god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group
 of eight VASU deities answering to the god INDRA.
 Attributes: hook and plough.
 Apacita
 Guardian spirit. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of a pile of
 stones marking the top of a pass or some other
 critical point on a route invoked by travelers
 with small offerings to strengthen them on their
 journey.
 Apam Napat (grandchild of the water)
 1. God of fresh water. Persian [Iran]. He provides
 water in arid regions and suppresses rebellions.
 2. God of fresh water. Hindu (Vedic). Mentioned
 in the Rg Veda, he is described as “golden in
 appearance.”
 Apap
 Creator god. Teso [Uganda, East Africa].
 Regarded as a benevolent sky god who brings the
 rain to parched land. Also Akuj.
 Aparajita (unconquered)
 1. God. Hindu (Puranic). One of the eleven
 EKADASARUDRAS or forms of RUDRA. Attributes:
 bell, bowl, club, drum, hook, lance, lotus, prayer
 wheel, rod, rosary, shield, sword and trident.
 2. Minor god. Buddhist (Mahayana). 
3. Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Form of DURGA.
 Her attendant animal is a lion. Attributes:
24 Apedemak
 arrow, shield, snake and sword. 4. Goddess.
 Buddhist (Mahayana). She stands or treads 
on the god GANESA. Color: yellow. Attributes:
 bell, hook, image of RATNASAMBHAVA, noose
 and staff.
 Apedemak
 War god. Sudanese (Meroe). An Egyptianized
 deity, his main sanctuary was contained in a vast
 religious complex and center of pilgrimage at
 Musawwarat-es-Sufra, north of the sixth Nile
 cataract. Sacred animals include cattle and the
 African elephant. Depicted with the head of a lion
 and a human body, holding a scepter embellished
 with a seated lion at the tip.
 Aphrodisias
 Fertility goddess. Carian [southwestern Turkey].
 Equating with the Greek goddess APHRODITE.
 APHRODITE (foam-born)
 ORIGIN Greek and Cypriot. Goddess of sexual
 love.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP identified from
 circa 1300 BC (evolving from an earlier prehis
toric Asiatic model), until Christianization
 (circa AD 400) and later. 
SYNONYMS equating with ISˇTAR (Akkadian);
 ASTARTE (Syrian); ASˇTORETH (Phoenician);
 Dione, Cytherea, VENUS (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Paphos, Amathus and Kition
 (Cyprus), Corinth and elsewhere on Greek
 mainland.
 ART REFERENCES Bronze Age statuettes
 (Cyprus); votive stelae; the Parthenon frieze
 and other contemporary sculpture. 
LITERARY SOURCES Iliad and Odyssey (Homer);
 Theogony and Hymn to Aphrodite (Hesiod); tem
ple hymns, particularly Hymn of Sappho.
 Aphrodite is one of the major goddesses of the
 Greek Homeric pantheon, according to legend
 born as a cosmic deity from the foam of the ocean
 after her father OURANOS was castrated by KRO
NOS and his genitals were hurled into the sea. In
 other accounts she is of a “younger” generation,
 a daughter of ZEUS. She is the consort of HEP
HAISTOS and occasional mistress of other deities,
 including ARES. Through liaison with the herds
man Anchises she bore Aeneas who is said to have
 carried his father to safety on his back during the
 sack of Troy. Her sacred animal is the goat.
 Aphrodite seems clearly to have evolved from the
 Phoenician or Mesopotamian model of a goddess
 of love and one of her strongest early cults was on
 the island of Cyprus. Her name derives from the
 Greek word for the sexual act. She is perceived, in
 some contexts, as being androgynous and even
 bearded (see also ARTEMIS). As with her Meso
potamian predecessors she is a goddess of war
 and victory. Immediate predecessors to the Hel
lenic model seem to be present in the Mycenaean
 period particularly at the Kition sanctuary. The
 Paphos sanctuary definitely suggests Phoenician
 inspiration. In the Iliad, Aphrodite rescues Paris
 from his fight with Menelaus and returns him to
 the arms of HELEN in Troy.
 In Hellenic art Aphrodite is particularly drawn
 wearing fine clothes and jewelry. She possesses a
 girdle with magical properties. The famed statue of
 the goddess from Cnidos (circa 340 BC), depicting
 her naked, is the first of many such erotic inter
pretations. The temple at Paphos once dispensed
 model phalli and lumps of salt to cultic pilgrims,
 and the Corinthian sanctuary enjoyed, according
 to Strabo, more than a thousand cultic prostitutes.
 Apis
 Bull god. Egyptian. The living personification of
 the creator god PTAH in Memphis, he acts as an
 intermediary between the supreme god and
APOLLO 25
 mankind. His mother is ISIS, who engendered
 him in a lightning flash. The bull is depicted as
 wholly black apart from a small white triangle on
 the forehead, and it bears vulture wings. Between
 its horns are surmounted the sun disc (or, in later
 times, the moon) and the uraeus (snake symbol).
 The cult of the bull is very ancient and is
 attested in Egypt from at least 3000 BC. Accord
ing to the Greek writer Herodotus, huge statues
 of Apis supported the temple of Ptah in Memphis.
 In a ritual of virility, the king paced alongside the
 charging bull to renew his strength. The average
 life of an Apis bull was fourteen years, at the end
 of which each was mummified and interred in
 huge sarcophagi, which were placed in catacombs
 at the necropolis at Seqqara. The bull also has
 strong underworld connections. 
See also SARAPIS.
 Aplu
 Weather god. Etruscan. No cult is identifiably
 addressed to this deity. He is depicted partly
 cloaked and wearing a laurel leaf, but otherwise
 naked. Attributes include a staff and laurel twig.
 Apo (lord)
 Mountain god. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of an
 Andean mountain, all mountains being sacred to
 the South American Indians.
 APOLLO
 ORIGIN Greek and possibly cultures in Asia
 Minor. God of hunting and healing. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1300 BC and
 earlier until Christianization (circa AD 400) and
 probably later. 
SYNONYMS Apellon (pre-Homeric); Atepomarus
 (Celtic).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Delos, Pylo-Delphi and
 many other sanctuaries throughout the Greek
 world.
 ART REFERENCES the Parthenon frieze; the
 Belvedere Apollo triumphing over the Python;
 Apollo and DAPHNE; a famed but lost statue
 from Delos; Apollo holding the three Charites
 in his right hand; other contemporary sculpture
 and painting. 
LITERARY SOURCES Iliad and Odyssey (Homer);
 Theogony and Hymn to Apollo (Hesiod); various
 other temple hymns.
 One of the major Greek deities always perceived as
 a god who epitomizes youthful masculinity, possi
bly with early links to Lycia in Asia Minor (Hittite)
 and to Minoan Crete. Generally a distant rather
 than an intimate and approachable god. His
 mother is LETO who wandered the world in great
 suffering until she chanced on the island of Delos
 where she found refuge, and Apollo is often por
trayed as part of a triad with Leto and ARTEMIS. He
 epitomizes the transition between adolescence and
 manhood in Greek male society. At Delphi his
 sanctuary is central to the complex. At Delos it
 appears secondary to that of Artemis. The paean
 dance of healing which is particularly known from
 the Hyakinthia festival at Amyklai (Sparta) is closely
 identified with the Apollo cult. Not only is he a god
 of healing but also of pestilence. He is the father of
 ASKLEPIOS, the god of healing, and he is continu
ally associated with purification rites and oracles.
 Generally Apollo is drawn as a god of hunters
 carrying a bow and arrow and associated with a stag
 or roe. He is also pictured with lions. He became,
 improbably, the patron god of poets and leader of
 the Muses (daughters of ZEUS). Literature often
 presents Apollo in a dual aspect of fearsome hunter
 and gracious player of the lyre. In the former capac
ity he was at times merciless, killing the many chil
dren of Niobe who had boasted of them to the
 chagrin of Leto. He fought and slew the Delphic
26 Apsaras
 Aralo
 python and the Olympic Cyclopes, but in both
 cases himself became subject to general laws of
 morality and suffered temporary banishment.
 Apollo is strongly associated with the mystical num
ber seven (almost certainly a Mesopotamian con
cept). In Ugaritic inscriptions he is referred to as
 RESˇEP of the Arrow (see Res ˇep). Apollo was widely
 revered under various local synonyms by the Celts.
 Apsaras
 Water spirits. Hindu (Vedic). Identified as musi
cians and protective deities of gamblers bringing
 good fortune. They may also bring insanity.
 Apsu
 God of underground primeval waters. Mesopo
tamian (Babylonian-Akkadian). Derived from the
 Sumerian ABZU. In the Babylonian creation epic
 Enuma Elisˇ, Apsu is killed, while sleeping, by
 ENKI, who establishes his own abode above the
 deeps. Apsu’s death triggered the cosmic challenge
 between the forces of MARDUK and TIAMAT.
 Aquilo
 Weather god. Roman. God of the west winds.
 A’ra
 Local tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Known from inscriptions at Bostra [near Damas
cus]. The name implies an altar or holy place, but
 its Arabic root also means to dye, suggesting that
 the altars were stained with the blood of sacrifices,
 probably children.
 Arachne
 Minor goddess. Roman. Concerned with the craft
 of weaving.
 Local god of agriculture. Pre-Christian Geor
gian. Probably derived from the Armenian god
 ARAY.
 Aranyani
 Minor goddess of woodlands. Hindu (Vedic).
 Possibly having evolved from a primitive ani
mistic guardian spirit of animals, Aranyani is an
 elusive, rarely seen, deity who is recognized in
 the sounds of the trees, particularly at dusk. She
 is a benign figure, sweet-scented and unwilling to
 destroy unless severely provoked.
 Arapacana
 God. Buddhist. A BODHISATTVA or spiritual 
meditation buddha. Originally a DHARANI of
 MANJUSRI who became deified. Accompanied by
 four minor deities. Also a collective name for the
 five buddhas. Color: yellow or red. Attributes:
 standing wearing a monkish garment and carry
ing book and sword.
 Arawa
 Moon goddess. Suk and Pokot [Kenya and
 Uganda, East Africa]. The two tribes share the
 same pantheon of deities. Arawa is the daughter of
 the creator god TORORUT and his consort SETA.
 Arawn
 Chthonic underworld god. Celtic (Welsh). The
 leader of the phantom hunt seen chasing a white
 stag with a pack of red-eared hounds. He
 equates with GWYNN AP NUDD, a similar deity
 known in South Wales. His chief underworld
 opponent is Hafgan and he bribes PWYLL,
 prince of Dyfed, to challenge Hafgan in
 exchange for a gift of pigs.
Aray
 Areimanios 27
 War god. Pre-Christian Armenian. Probably
 derived locally from the Greek ARES. Some 
traditions suggests that he was also a dying-and
rising god.
 ARCHON(S) (rulers)
 ORIGIN Gnostic Christian (eastern Mediter
ranean]. Primordial creator gods. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 100 to
 AD 400 and probably persisting later. 
SYNONYMS eksousiai (authorities, Greek). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT undefined cells within the
 area of early Christian influence.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Nag Hammadi codices.
 The Archons are the primordial celestial rulers of
 the cosmos. The Gnostic cosmogony argues that
 the God of Israel was not the original or sole
 creator but was a product of other older tyranni
cal forces who were eventually defeated in the
 conflict of light and dark. The Archons are the
 original creators of mortal man, though in the
 form in which they contrived him, he did not
 possess a soul. The main literary texts include
 the Hypostasis of the Archons, and the treatise on
 The Origin of the World, both forming part of the
 Nag Hammadi collection written down during
 the third or fourth century AD and probably
 owing much to Greek philosophy. The material
 was banned under the censorship of the early
 Christian fathers.
 Arcismati (brilliant)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of
 several deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple
 passes. Color: green. Attributes: blue lotus and
 staff.
 Ardhanari(svara) (the lord being half
 woman)
 God. Hindu (Puranic). The god S ˇIVA combined
 with his SAKTI as a single being. His attendant
 animal is the bull. In iconography the left side of
 the image is female and the right male. A tutelary
 deity of eunuchs in India. Attributes: (right side)
 blue lotus, cup, hatchet, lute, moon disc, pestle,
 skin, sword and trident; (left side) ax, mirror,
 noose, pitcher, rosary, sacred rope and trident.
 May appear as three-headed. Also Ammaiappan
 (Tamil); Naranari.
 Ardra
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Hindu (Puranic). A
 malevolent NAKSATRA or astral deity; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Arduinna
 Goddess of forests and hunting. Romano-Celtic
 (Continental European). Known only from
 inscriptions and figurines in the Ardennes 
region. Depicted riding on the back of a wild 
boar and presumed to be a guardian deity 
of boars. Identified by the Romans with the 
goddess DIANA.
 Arebati
 Creator god. Bambuti [Congo, West Africa].
 Worshiped by a pigmy tribe living along the
 banks of the river Ituri. He is considered to have
 created mankind from clay and blood, covered
 with skin.
 Areimanios
 Chthonic underworld god. Greek. Probably
 derived from the Persian deity AHRIMAN. Plutarch
 identifies him as the embodiment of HADES.
28 Arensnuphis
 Arensnuphis [Greek]
 Local god of uncertain affinities. Egyptian
 (Nubian). Probably significant circa 700 BC to
 AD 400 as an attendant of ISIS. He appeared in
 Egyptian sanctuaries during the Greco-Roman
 period and seems to have been of benevolent
 nature. There is also a sanctuary known from
 Philae in Greece where he is linked with Isis.
 Depicted in anthropomorphic form wearing a
 plumed crown or in the form of a lion. Also 
Ari-hes-nefer (Egyptian).
 ARES (throng of war)
 ORIGIN Greek. God of War.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC, but
 probably from earlier times, until Christianiza
tion (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no sanctuaries known until
 Roman times, when a temple was dedicated in
 the Agora in Athens.
 ART REFERENCES the Parthenon frieze; a cele
brated statue by Alkamenes; other contempo
rary sculpture.
 LITERARY SOURCES chiefly Iliad (Homer) and
 Theogony (Hesiod).
 Ares is a lesser known member of the Olympic pan
theon of great gods, the son of ZEUS and HERA,
 who allegedly lived in Thrace. As a warrior 
god he is contrasted with the more prominent and
 successful goddess ATHENA who fought and 
vanquished him in a war between the gods.
 Although Athena stands for victory in battle
 through glory and honor, Ares epitomizes the evil
 and more brutal aspects of warfare. In the eyes of
 Zeus he is “the most hateful of gods.” His war char
iot is pulled by Phobos (fear) and Deimos (terror).
 Ares’ sons were even more barbaric than he.
 Kyknos was a ferocious killer who, until slain by
 HERAKLES, was proposing a temple constructed
 of human skulls. Another notorious son of Ares
 was the dragon slain by Kadmos as he sought to
 found the city of Thebes. Its teeth, which he
 sowed in the earth, germinated and sprang up as
 warriors, the grandsons of Ares, who promptly
 turned on each other in mortal combat. Ares
 entered into a brief liaison with APHRODITE, the
 goddess consort of HEPHAISTOS, and through her
 fathered a daughter, HARMONIA, whom Kadmos
 later married, thus paving the way to establish
 Thebes in an atmosphere of peace and harmony.
 Ariadne
 Goddess of vegetation. Greek. Possibly derived
 from an unnamed Minoan goddess identified on
 Crete. According to Homer and Hesiod she is a
 daughter of MINOS and a consort of DIONYSOS.
 Her crown, given by ZEUS, is the Corona Borealis.
 Tradition has it that she was wooed and then
 deserted by the hero Theseus.
 Arianrhod
 Chthonic earth goddess. Celtic (Welsh). Respon
sible for initiation of souls in the otherworld 
in the tower of Caer Sidi. Mentioned in the
 Mabinogion texts as the possible daughter of Beli,
 consort of DON and mother of LLEW LLAW
 GYFFES and Dylan.
 Arimanius
 Chthonic underworld god. Roman. 
See also AREIMANIOS.
 Arinna (sun goddess)
 Solar deity. Hittite and Hurrian. May have taken
 androgynous form, but also identified as the con
sort of the weather god TES ˇUB. Probably the head
 of the Hittite state pantheon. There is little detail
 because the religious center of Arinna is known
Arsay 29
 only from texts. The sun goddess was also per
ceived to be a paramount chthonic or earth god
dess. She becomes largely syncretized with the
 Hurrian goddess HEBAT.
 Aristaios
 God of herdsmen. Greek. The consort of Auto
noe. Of ancient origin, worshiped by peasants as
 a guardian of herds and beekeepers. The cult con
tinued for many centuries at Kyrene [Libya].
 Arjuna (silvery)
 Heroic god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 Arjuna appears in the Mahabharata epic. One of
 the princely sons of the mythical Pandu family,
 his father is INDRA. He generally appears with the
 warrior god BHIMA. Allegedly responsible for
 requesting VISˇNU to take his VISVARUPA form but
 also identified as a minor incarnation or avatara of
 Visˇnu. Attributes: usually depicted bearing a bow
 received from AGNI the fire god, but may also
 appear carrying a sword and shield. Also NARA.
 Arma
 Minor moon god. Hittite and Hurrian. Depicted
 winged and wearing a sickle moon surmounted
 on a horned helmet.
 Armaz
 Supreme god. Pre-Christian Georgian. Depicted
 as a warrior deity clad in golden armor, wearing
 jewels and wielding a sword.
 Arnakua’gsak
 Animistic spirit. Inuit (North American). The
 “Old Woman of the Sea” who supplies all 
the physical needs of the Eskimo from the ocean.
 Arnemetia
 Water goddess. Romano-Celtic (British). A deity
 known only from inscriptions.
 Arom
 Minor god of contractual agreements. Kafir
 [Afghanistan]. Arom appears to have been signif
icant only to a tribe known as the Kam in the
 southern Hindukush. He was honored by sacri
fice of a male goat on the occasion of a peace
 treaty, and had seven brothers.
 ARSAN DUOLAI (terrible dweller of the
 underground world)
 ORIGIN Yakut [eastern Siberia]. Chief spirit of
 the underworld.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until circa AD 1900.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none. 
ART REFERENCES none positively identified
 though possibly the subject of wooden 
icons.
 LITERARY SOURCES The Yakut (Jochelson).
 Little is known of this animistic god, though he
 was considered to live in the lower world and rule
 over a nebulous group of spirits, the Abasy. To
 these subterranean deities horned cattle were
 slaughtered. Abasy also lived in the upper world,
 in which capacity they were recipients of horse
 sacrifice.
 Arsay
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Western Semitic
 (Canaanite). According to epic creation texts, she
 is the third daughter of BAAL at Ugarit (Ras
 S
 ˇamra), possibly also equating with ALLATUM.
30 Arsu
 Arsu
 Astraltutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Locally worshiped at Palmyra where he personi
fies the evening star, in company with his brother
 AZIZOS who is the morning star. He equates with
 Ruda elsewhere in northern Arabia. Associated
 in Palmyra with horses or camels.
 ARTEMIS
 ORIGIN Greek, but known extensively through
 western Asia. Principally goddess of animals
 and hunting, but in Greek-speaking Asia, a
 mother goddess. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC and
 earlier until Christianization (circa AD 400) and
 probably later. 
SYNONYMS Potnia Theron (mistress of the 
animals).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Antioch-near-Pisidia; Delos;
 Magnesia-on-the-Maeander; Pamphylia; Perge;
 Ephesus [Turkey].
 ART REFERENCES cultic statues, etc, most notably
 the multi-breasted figures at Ephesus.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts (earlier Asian
 models); Iliad (Homer), Theogony (Hesiod).
 Artemis is a deity of very ancient origins who
 survived and attracted great popularity in both
 Asia Minor and Greece into Christian times,
 when arguably much of her ethos was trans
ferred to the Virgin Mary. Both figures enjoyed
 major sanctuaries at Ephesus. As an Asiatic god
dess Artemis was often drawn winged and
 standing between wild animals. In this context
 she generally appears equipped with boots, a
 torch and a pointed cap. She is also a strongly
 androgynous figure, a feature depicted dramat
ically in the statue of Artemis of Ephesus. Her
 temple at Ephesus dates from the fourth cen
tury BC and is ranked among the seven wonders
 of the world. The cult statues were carried in
 procession on May 25 among a congregation of
 up to 30,000.
 To the Greeks she was the daughter of ZEUS
 and LETO. She was honored in the sanctuary
 on Delos with its celebrated Horn Altar from
 circa 700 BC. In Greek mythology the androgy
nous aspect was firmly discounted. In her earli
est pre-Homeric form the Mistress of Animals
 “suckles the young of every wild creature that
 roams the fields.” As a huntress she uses a bow
 and arrows.
 By Homeric times the ferocity of this prehis
toric element has waned in favor of a more timid
 image of a young girl dominated robustly by her
 stepmother HERA. A contrary character study in
 the Odyssey pictures her more positively as a vir
gin goddess chasing and killing boars and hinds
 over the hills and fields, fleet of foot and in com
pany with a band of nymphs. She presides over
 nature and over the initiation rituals of young
 girls. She is also a goddess of blood sacrifice. A
 cruel element emerged in a different sense as she
 threatened any maiden who turned to the role of
 wife. Paradoxically, and more in keeping with the
 old Semitic personality, she is also the goddess of
 birth.
 Arthapratisamvit
 Goddess of logical analysis. Buddhist (Vajrayana).
 One of a group of four. Color: green. Attributes:
 jewel and noose.
 Artio of Muri
 Fertility goddess and guardian spirit of bears.
 Romano-Celtic (Continental European). Known
 only from inscriptions and sculptures in the
 Berne region of Switzerland, she is linked with
 bears. A bronze depicts her offering fruit to a
 bear. She seems also to be a goddess of prosper
ity and harvest. She became syncretized with the
AS ˇERAH 31
 Roman god Mercury as Mercury Artaios. Also
 Artemis Brauronia.
 Arundhati (faithfulness)
 Astral goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Personification
 of the morning star and the wife of all risis or
 inspired sons of BRAHMA though particularly asso
ciated with Vasistha. Attributes: begging bowls.
 Aruru
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian) 
See also NINHURSAG˜A.
 Arvernus
 Local tribal deity. Celtic (Gallic). God of the
 Arverni.
 Aryaman (companion)
 Minor sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). In
 Vedic times, the god of formal hospitality. One of
 six ADITYA sons of the goddess ADITI. Attributes:
 club, two lotuses and prayer wheel.
 Arya-Tara (the honorable Tara)
 Goddess. Buddhist. The SAKTI of AMOGHASID
DHI. Her name is often abbreviated to TARA and
 she originates from the TAM bija or seed. Color:
 green. Attributes: green lotus and staff. Also
 VASYA-TARA.
 As ˇ
 Local fertility god. Egyptian (western Sahara).
 Known from the Early Dynastic Period. By infer
ence a benign god of oases and other fertile areas
 of the desert. Epithets include “lord of Libya.”
 Depicted anthropomorphically, occasionally
 hawk-headed.
 Asalluha
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Baby
lonian-Akkadian). A son of ENKI who apparently
 acts as a messenger and reporter to his father.
 Linked with rituals of exorcism. Cult center
 Ku’ara. In Babylonian times he became largely
 syncretized with MARDUK.
 Asar
 Equestrian god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Known only from inscriptions at Palmyra.
 Asase Yaa
 Chthonic fertility goddess. Ashanti [Ghana, West
 Africa]. A major deity revered over a wide area of
 Akan- and Fante-speaking Ghana. She has no
 temples or priests but days (Thursdays) are set
 aside in her honor and no ploughing is permitted.
 By tradition a farmer sacrifices a cockerel to her
 each year to ensure a good harvest, sprinkling the
 blood on the ground. As the womb of the earth,
 she represents the goddess of the dead and she is
 also goddess of truth. Also Asase Efua (Fante).
 AS ˇERAH
 ORIGIN Amorite, then Canaanite and possibly
 Phoenician [Lebanon from Tyre northwards,
 Syria]. Mother goddess. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 times circa third millennium BC until Chris
tianization (circa AD 400). 
SYNONYMS ATHIRAT.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Ugarit [Ras S ˇamra] and hill
 shrines throughout the corn-growing coastal
 region of the eastern Mediterranean.
32 Asˇertu
 Ashiakle
 ART REFERENCES none surviving, but once exten
sively represented.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ugaritic texts from Ras
 S
 ˇamra, particularly The Legend of Baal and Anat;
 Vetus Testamentum.
 Asˇerah is the great mother goddess of Canaan.
 Known as “Lady Asˇerah of the sea,” she seems to
 have lived close by the place of IL, the Canaanite
 creator god, and is said to have had many sons.
 She is described as the “creatress of the gods” and
 the matron of a number of other goddesses who
 oversee the natural world. She is also ambiguous
 in her attitude to BAAL. She intercedes with Il
 when Baal wishes to build a palace of his own yet,
 when he is vanquished, she attempts to place one
 of her own offspring on the throne. It is Asˇerah
 who gave her name to the hill shrines under the
 trees which were vilified by the writers of the bib
lical prophetic books such as Ezekiel. Translated
 as “grove” in the King James English version, the
 asˇerah seems to have been a carved wooden pillar
 which formed the focal point of worship in con
junction with a stone massebah. The asˇrah repre
sented the presence of the mother goddess. Its
 popularity with large numbers of Israelites is
 beyond dispute, but because of its pagan conno
tations and particularly its representation of the
 mother goddess linked with rituals of fertility, the
 asˇerah became one of the major irritations of the
 prophets and other religious leaders of the tribes
 during the period of the Israelite kingship. It may
 have stimulated large numbers of rank-and-file
 to abandon or take a strongly ambivalent attitude
 toward Yhwhism.
 As ˇertu
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic (Canaanite)
 and Hittite. Identified in Ugaritic (Ras S ˇamra)
 texts as an unfaithful consort of ELKUNIRSA. Also
 Asˇerdus (Hittite).
 Goddess of wealth. Gan [district around Accra,
 Ghana, West Africa]. The daughter of NAI, 
god of the sea, she was born in the ocean and
 came to land in a canoe. Her colors are red and
 white.
 Asira
 Local god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian. 
Mentioned only in name by the Babylonian 
king Nabonidus, worshiped at Taima and 
influenced strongly by Egyptian culture. 
See also SALM.
 Asis
 Sun god. Suk and Pokot [Kenya and Uganda,
 East Africa]. These two tribes share the 
same pantheon. The younger brother of the
 supreme god of heaven TORORUT. In Nandi
 [Kenya] religion, Asis becomes the supreme 
creator god.
 ASKLEPIOS
 ORIGIN Greek. God of physicians and healing.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 800 BCor ear
lier to Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Asklapios, Aisklapios.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Epidauros; Kos; the
 Asklepeion in Pergamon.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad (Homer); Catalogues
 (Hesiod).
 The son of APOLLO and a mortal consort, Coro
nis, Asklepios lived effectively as a mortal and
 died as such. He was nonetheless regarded as a
 deity. He was reared by the centaur Charon and
 fathered two sons, Podaleirios and Machaon,
 who were also physicians. More familiar from
Astaphaios 33
 modern usage is his daughter, the goddess
 HYGIEIA (health). Asklepios is symbolized by a
 rod with twin snakes coiled around it. He is also
 represented in his sanctuaries by a captive snake.
 According to legend he met his death at the
 hand of ZEUS for presuming to bring a mortal
 being back from death. Physicians on Kos
 formed into a guild, the Asklepiadai (sons of
 Asklepios). The Epidauros sanctuary became an
 influential place of pilgrimage by the sick and
 infirm in classical times.
 Aslesa(s) (adherence)
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Hindu (Epic 
and Puranic). A malevolent NAKSATRA or astral
 deity; daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA
 (SOMA).
 As ˇnan
 Vegetation goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian
 and Babylonian-Akkadian). Minor deity prob
ably known to the Sumerians from circa 3500
 BC or earlier. She is concerned with the abun
dance of grain in the fields, sent as its protec
tress by the gods ENLIL and ENKI. According to
 creation accounts, she and the cattle god LAHAR
 were first intended to serve the needs of the
 Annunaki, the celestial children of AN, but
 when the heavenly creatures were found unable
 to make use of their products, humankind was
 created to provide an outlet for their services.
 Attributes: ears of corn sprouting from her
 shoulders.
 Asokottamasri (the great beauty of Asoka)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among one of a series of medicine
 buddhas or SMAN-BLA in Lamaism. Typically
 depicted with stretched earlobes. Color: red.
 Asopos
 Local river god. Greek (Beotian). Known only
 from regions of central Greece as one of the sons
 of POSEIDON.
 As ˇpalis
 Hunting goddess. Western Semitic. There is
 scant mention of Asˇpalis from Melite in Phthia
 and she is probably a local version of ARTEMIS. As
 in certain Artemis mythology, she hanged herself
 and her body disappeared.
 As ˇratum
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic (Canaanite).
 Probably a corruption of the Semitic ATHIRAT or
 AS ˇERAH. Also mentioned in Babylonian texts from
 the Hellenistic period. Also Asˇrat (Akkadian).
 Assur
 Tutelary god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). The national deity of Assyria. In the Assyr
ian copies of the creation epic Enuma Elisˇ, he
 replaces MARDUK as the hero.
 Astabi
 Deity. Hittite and Hurrian. Known only from
 inscriptions.
 Astamatara
 Generic term for a group of mother goddesses.
 Hindu (Puranic). Eight deities who are varieties
 of the goddess CAMUNDA, often malevolent.
 Astaphaios
 Primordial deity. Gnostic Christian. One of the
 androgynous principles born to YALDABAOTH, the
34 Astar
 prime parent, ruling the seven heavens of chaos in
 gnostic mythology.
 Astar
 Astral god. Ethiopian. Identified in Axum Empire
 inscriptions from circa AD 200-400.
 As ˇtaroth
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic. Goddess of
 sheep herders equating with the Phoenician god
dess ASTARTE. Also a plural form of the name
 Asˇtoreth and used as a collective name for god
desses (cf. BAAL).
 ASTARTE (star)
 ORIGIN western Semitic, predominantly Phoeni
cian [Lebanon and Syria]. Fertility goddess.
 KNOWNPERIOD OFWORSHIP from circa 1500 BC
 or earlier until circa 200 BC. 
SYNONYMS Asˇtarat; Attart (Ugarit).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT predominantly Tyre; also
 Sidon, Byblos, Ascalon, Carthage, Kition
 [Cyprus], Eryx [Sicily] and Malta.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, plaques, votive ste
lae, glyptics, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES mainly inscriptions.
 The goddess of the evening star, of war and of
 sexual love. Inscriptions from the fifth century BC
 in her major temple at Sidon suggest she was per
ceived as an emanation of BAAL S ˇAMIN, personify
ing his divine power. She is also his consort. Her
 animal is the sphinx, which typically appears on
 either side of her throne. She is often represented
 by baetyls or stone stelae. In Hellenic times she
 became largely syncretized with the Greek god
dess APHRODITE. A first century BC inscription in
 a sanctuary dedicated to Aphrodite at Delos iden
tifies the “holy Syrian goddess.” Astarte is typi
cally depicted naked and, in the Egyptian style,
 wears a crown of cows’ horns enclosing a sun disc.
 The latter may have rays emanating. 
See also ASˇTORETH, ISˇTAR and ASˇERAH.
 Astlik
 Astral goddess. Pre-Christian Armenian. Derived
 from the Mesopotamian model of IS ˇTAR. Survived
 in Christian times as the mother of fairies.
 AS ˇTORETH
 ORIGIN Palestinian and Philistine [Israel,
 Lebanon]. Fertility goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1200 BC or
 earlier until circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS ASˇTAROTH.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Palestine coastal region
 including Jerusalem.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures. 
LITERARY SOURCES inscriptions; Vetus Testamen
tum.
 As ˇtoreth equates with the Syrian goddess ASTARTE,
 both being modeled on the Mesopotamian ISˇTAR.
 She was adopted, typically, as goddess of both
 love and war. She is usually depicted wearing a
 horned headdress. Biblical references include I
 Kings 11.5 and II Kings 23.13. Solomon is said to
 have built a temple in her honor near Jerusalem.
 The name is said, by some authors, to be synony
mous with Asˇtaroth.
 Asuha-No-Kami
 God of courtyards. Shinto [Japan]. A guardian
 deity, one of many in Shintoism, concerned with
 the protection of houses and their environs.
 Asurakumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHVANAVASI (dwelling in places).
Atea 35
 They have a youthful appearance and are associ
ated with rain and thunder.
 Asuras
 Sky gods. Hindu (Vedic). Identified in the open
ing of the Rg Veda, they become demonic in later
 Hinduism, the antagonists of the DEVA gods.
 Asvins
 Physician gods. Hindu (Vedic). Twin gods owning
 horses, the sons of VIVASVAN and SARANYU.
 Depicted in a chariot drawn by horses or birds.
 Attributes: book, vessel with herbs and water jar.
 Asvayujau (harnessing horses)
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA, or astral deity;
 daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Also Asvini and Asvinyau.
 Ataa Naa Nyongmo
 Creator god. Gan [district around Accra, Ghana,
 West Africa]. He engendered the earth and also
 controls the sun and the rain. He causes disasters
 such as epidemics and earthquakes if his laws and
 rites are disobeyed.
 Ataecina
 Local chthonic underworld goddess. Romano
Iberian. Known from inscriptions in the Tagus
 region, where the Romans identified her with the
 goddess PROSERPINA.
 Atargatis
 Mother goddess. Northern Syrian. She enjoyed
 major cults at Khirbet Tannur, where she is
 depicted as the vegetation goddess in nine sepa
rate variations, and at Khirbet Brak, where she is
 associated with dolphins. She often carries a cor
nucopia linking her with the goddess TYCHE (for
tune) and may commonly be flanked by lions. She
 sometimes carries a rudder or wears the mural
 crown of a city guardian. There are hints of sky
 affinities in some depictions, with a sign of the
 zodiac or a nimbus-like veil.
 Her earliest consort is DUS ˇARA, but in later times
 she is linked with the Syrian storm god HADAD. At
 Dura and Hierapolis (Hera-Atargatis), she tended
 to overshadow Hadad. Atargatis is also a fish god
dess depicted like a mermaid and in most of her
 cult centers she enjoyed a sacred lake stocked with
 fish. Statues of Hadad and Hera-Atargatis were
 carried in twice-yearly processions to the sea from
 Hierapolis, and by the third century BC her cult
 had reached Egypt. Greek writers of the Hellenic
 period describe her as a “radiate” goddess, which
 suggests some links with sun symbolism. 
Also Allat.
 Atars ˇamain (morning star of heaven)
 Astral deity of uncertain gender. Pre-Islamic
 northern and central Arabian. Worshiped partic
ularly by the Isˇamme tribe, but revered widely
 among other Arabs. Known from circa 800 BC
 and identified in letters of the Assyrian kings
 Esˇarhaddon and Assurbanipal. May be synony
mous with the Arab goddess ALLAT whose cult
 was centered on Palmyra.
 Ate
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Greek. A daughter
 of ZEUS, she personifies blind folly leading to 
disaster.
 Atea
 Supreme god. Polynesian. The father of the gods
 depicted as a hybrid, his body divided vertically,
36 ATEN
 the left half being fishy and the right half of
 human form. In the tradition of the Hervey
 Islands, he is the firstborn son of the primordial
 mother VARI-MA-TE-TAKERE. After a short exis
tence low down in the world coconut living
 immediately above his mother, he moved to the
 opening of the upper world. He is largely com
parable to TANE, the god of light. Also AVATEA,
 Vatea, Wakea.
 ATEN (the sun disc)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Creator sun god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC until
 late in Egyptian history, but of little influence
 after 1362 BC.
 SYNONYMS Aton.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly at Thebes but also at
 Heliopolis, Memphis, el-Amarna and other
 sanctuaries in the Nile valley. 
ART REFERENCES monument at Giza, wall paint
ings at Karnak and el-Amarna. 
LITERARY SOURCES various papyri, inscriptions
 and coffin texts.
 Aten, the sun as a disc, was revered as a numen in
 his own right, distinct from Atum or Re, from
 circa 2000 BC and possibly earlier. His influence
 had been growing under several pharaohs includ
ing Amenhotep II, Tuthmosis IV and Amenhotep
 III, who initiated a cult of Aten at Heliopolis.
 Aten rose to ultimate supremacy for a brief period
 during the reign of Amenhotep IV who renamed
 himself Akhenaten in honor of the god. During
 Akhenaten’s reign from 1379 BC Aten became the
 supreme god of Egypt, eclipsing all others.
 The iconography of Aten is very distinctive. It
 began as a winged sun disc with outstretched
 arms, but this was refined into a sun disc embel
lished with the uraeus (see WADJET) and sub
tended by thin arms, like the rays of the sun, each
 of which ends in a human hand. Where the latter
 point toward a royal personage they hold the ankh
 symbol of life. The god is never drawn in human
 or animal form.
 Akhenaten first built a sanctuary to Aten adja
cent to that of AMUN in the Karnak complex at
 Thebes. The main cult center was to the north of
 Thebes on the east bank of the Nile at el-Amarna,
 where a huge sanctuary was constructed. It was
 open to the sky (and the rays of Aten) and the
 main ceremonials took place at dawn. It acted as
 a contentious rival to the cult of Amun-Re at Kar
nak, which Akhenaten suppressed. All the temples
 to Aten were later destroyed, as was most of his
 iconography. Akhenaten ruled from el-Amarna
 for the remainder of his reign. One of his queens,
 Nefertiti, was also a staunch Aten worshiper.
 The elevation of Aten was influenced by politics
 (the strength of the Amun-Re priesthood was
 becoming excessive), and it is notable that Akhen
aten alone had access to, or knowledge of, the god.
 Aten worship was also undeniably the result of a
 growing interest in the concept of a single creator
 god and was the first arguable demonstration of
 monotheism. Very little detail of the cult survives.
 Atete
 Fertility goddess. Kafa [Ethiopia, northeastern
 Africa]. She was assimilated into the Christian
 cult of the Virgin Mary, but is probably the sub
ject of an ancient fertility rite performed by
 women who collect various sacred plants and
 throw them into the river. The festival is known
 as Astar yo Mariam (Epiphany of Mary).
 ATHENA
 ORIGIN Greek. Goddess of war and patron
 defender of many Greek cities. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC and
 earlier until Christianization (circa AD 400) and
 later.
Atropos 37
 SYNONYMS Athene; PALLAS ATHENAE (maiden
 goddess of Athens); MINERVA (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Athens but also Argos,
 Sparta, Gortyn, Larisa (Thessaly); Lindos and
 Ilion (Homer’s Troy).
 ART REFERENCES the Parthenon frieze and other
 sculptures and iconography throughout the
 Greek world, including notably the Athena of
 Phidias (Varvakeion) and the metope of Olympia
 in which she assists HERAKLES to support the sky.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad and Odyssey (Homer);
 Theogony and Hymn to Pallas Athene (Hesiod).
 Athena is a principal goddess of the Greek pan
theon and, according to Hesiod, the daughter of
 METIS (wisdom) born fully armed from the head
 of ZEUS. A goddess of battle and allegedly a snake
 goddess, she is a deity who also stands for disci
pline against the more unruly conduct of such as
 HERMESand POSEIDON. Her most famed sanctu
ary is the Parthenon. The olive tree is sacred to
 her, particularly that grown by tradition on the
 Acropolis, whose oil was given to the victors in
 the Panathenaia festival. According to legend she
 offered the olive to mankind. Her symbol is the
 aigis—the skin of a sacrificial goat. She is also
 associated with ship-building and with domestic
 crafts including wool work and spinning—
 Athenian women have traditionally woven the
 peplos at the Panathenaia festival. In legend she is
 the destroyer of Ajax and lures Hector to his
 death, while supporting such heroes as Perseus
 against the Gorgon monster, and Diomedes
 against ARES. She also acts as a moderating influ
ence in Achilles’ conflict with Agamemnon, the
 most notable instance of her characteristic ability
 for self-control.
 Athirat
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic (Canaanite).
 In Old Babylonian texts of Hammurabi she is
 identified as the daughter-in-law of the king of
 heaven. She is also known from pre-Islamic south
ern Arabia as a consort of the moon god AMM. 
See also ASˇERAH.
 Aticandika (exceedingly great)
 Distinct form of the goddess DURGA. Hindu
 (Puranic). One of a group of nine deities, known
 as the “nine durgas.”
 Atl
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The sun deity representing the fourth
 of the five world ages each of which lasted for
 2,028 heavenly years, each heavenly year being
 fifty-two terrestrial years. Assigned to water and
 presided over by CHALCHIUHTLICUE. According
 to tradition, the age ended in a cataclysmic
 destruction caused by a deluge during which all
 the human population were turned into fish.
 Illustrated by the “Stone of the Four Suns” [Yale
 Peabody Museum]. Also 4(Atl), Atonatiuh and
 Chalchiutonatiuh.
 Atlahua
 Minor god of lakes and fish hunters. Aztec (clas
sical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the Mixcoatlcamaxtli complex.
 Atropos
 Goddess of fate. Pre-Homeric Greek. According
 to Hesiod, one of the daughters of ZEUS and
 THEMIS. One of an ancient trio of MOIRAI with
 LACHESIS and KLOTHO. She is responsible for the
 final part of a mortal life, the unturning inevitabil
ity of death, and she is depicted holding a pair of
 scales. The name of the plant Atropa belladonna
 (deadly nightshade) derives from her.
38 Attar
 Attar
 God of the morning star. Western Semitic. In
 Canaanite legend, he attempts to usurp the dead
 BAAL but proves inadequate to fill the god’s
 throne. In semi-arid regions of western Asia
 where irrigation is essential, he was sometimes
 worshiped as a rain god. His female counterpart
 is the Phoenician ASTARTE. Also probably identi
fied as Dhu-S ˇamani in more southerly regions.
 ATTIS
 ORIGIN Phrygia [northwestern Turkey]. Vegeta
tion god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC and
 probably earlier until circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS none specific.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Anatolian region and later
 throughout Greek and Roman areas of culture.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs. 
LITERARY SOURCES Roman writers, especially
 Virgil.
 Attis is a “dying and rising” fertility god modeled
 on the Mesopotamian DUMUZI. He is considered
 to have originated as a shepherd. In alternative
 traditions, KYBELE, the “great mother,” is either
 his mother or purely his consort. Another legend
 suggests he was conceived immaculately by the
 demigoddess NANA when she placed a ripe
 almond in her bosom. According to one legend
 he met his death gored by a wild boar. In a more
 popular alternative, he castrated himself under a
 pine tree to offer his vitality to Kybele.
 The latter legend became enshrined in spring
 rites during which Greek, and later Roman, priests
 (Galli) wearing effeminate costumes castrated
 themselves or gashed themselves with knives and
 offered blood sacrifices to the goddess by burying
 them in the earth. The main center of cult was at
 Pessinus (Phrygia). The cult was brought to Rome
 in 204 BC when the stone symbolizing the presence
 of CYBELE (the Roman version of her name) was
 carried from Pessinus and installed in the Temple
 of Victory on the Palatine Hill. The day sacred to
 Attis was March 22 when a pine tree was carried
 into the Temple of Cybele and decorated with
 flowers and models of Attis. In Christian times the
 Easter festival took over the date of the Attis rites.
 Atua Fafine
 Creator being. Polynesian [Tikopia]. One of a
 pair with ATUA I RAROPUKA when the land of
 Tikopia was pulled up from the bottom of the
 ocean. They may have been there from the out
set, or arrived on the back of a turtle from foreign
 parts. They engendered five sons, all gods.
 Atua I Kafika
 Supreme god. Polynesian [Tikopia]. Regarded as
 an intercessor rather than as ultimate creator or
 controller.
 Atua I Raropuka
 Creator being. Polynesian [Tikopia]. One of a
 pair with Atua Fafine when the land of Tikopia
 was pulled up from the bottom of the ocean.
 They may have been there from the outset, or
 arrived on the back of a turtle from foreign parts.
 They engendered five sons, all gods.
 ATUM
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Sun god and creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP Old Kingdom
 (circa 2700 BC) to end of Egyptian history (circa
 AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Atum-Re. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Heliopolis.
 ART REFERENCES wall paintings particularly in
 New Kingdom tombs in the Valley of the Kings
 (Thebes), votive inscriptions, contemporary
 sculpture.
Avatea 39
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; coffin texts;
 Book of the Dead, etc.
 Atum is one of several interpretations of the
 major creator god of Egypt whose company is
 the product of a fragmented pre-Dynastic tribal
 history. Atum shared Heliopolis with another sun
 god, RE and eventually became joined with him as
 Atum-Re or Re-Atum. The god was self-created
 from the primeval ocean and by masturbating he
 produced the next two great deities of the Egypt
ian cosmos, S ˇU and TEFNUT, who also constitute
 the beginnings of the pantheon of nine Heliopo
lis deities, the ENNEAD. Atum is generally repre
sented in human form and often wears a crown
 which combines those of Upper and Lower
 Egypt. He is represented as various animals
 including the bull, lion, snake and lizard. Atum
 was regarded as the progenitor of the Egyptian
 pharaohs.
 Both Atum and Re are represented by a divine
 black bull, Mnevis or Mer-wer, wearing the sun
 disc and uraeus or snake between its horns. It acts
 as an intercessor between the sun god and his
 priests in Heliopolis.
 Atunis
 God. Etruscan. Known from circa 350 BC onward
 in local inscriptions. 
See also ADONIS.
 Aufaniae
 Collective name for a group of mother goddesses.
 Celtic (Continental European). Known only from
 votive inscriptions and largely restricted to the
 Rhineland.
 Aurora
 Goddess of the dawn. Roman. Derived from the
 Greek deity EOS.
 Auseklis (morning star)
 Minor astral god. Pre-Christian Latvian. An
 attendant of the sun god, linked with fertility and
 involved in the activity of the heavenly bath house.
 AVALOKITESVARA (merciful lord)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. Bodhisattva or buddha
designate.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS nineteen other forms listed.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric rit
ual texts.
 One of the most important deities of the Mahayana
 sect of Buddhism. In Lamaism he is the tutelary
 god of Tibet. He equates with VISˇNU in Hinduism
 and bears links with PADMAPANI. In cosmic mythol
ogy he is a creator deity. His SAKTI is PANDARA and
 his attendant animal is a lion. Many forms of Aval
okitesvara exist which may include varieties with up
 to eleven heads, sometimes arranged in a pyramid.
 Color: white or red. Attributes: blue lotus, image of
 Amitabha (topmost pyramidal head), lotus, rosary,
 sword and water jar.
 NOTE: in Chinese Buddhism he is represented
 by the goddess Kuan-Tin, and in Japanese by
 KWANNON.
 Avatea
 Moon god. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. The
 firstborn offspring of the great mother VARI-MA
TE-TAKERE and the elder sibling of TINIRAU.
 According to tradition, Vari-Ma-Te-Takere
 plucked a piece from her right side to engender
 Avatea, who is half man, half fish. He is divided
 vertically with his left side fishy and his right side
 human. He is the father of gods and humankind,
40 Aveta
 and is said to live in the coconut of the world.
 After a temporary period existing low down in
 the shell, he was assigned to the opening of the
 upper world, immediately above the home of
 Tinirau. Also Vatea; Wakea (Hawaiian).
 Aveta
 Goddess of birth and midwifery. Romano-Celtic
 (Gallic). Known mainly from clay figurines found
 at Toulon-sur-Allier, France. The models show the
 goddess with infants at the breast and apparently
 she is concerned especially with nursing mothers.
 The figure is often accompanied by a small lapdog.
 Avrikiti
 God of fishermen. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. Stat
ues of this deity, in a sitting position, were placed
 on the beaches and fishermen and local elders
 sacrificed to them annually to ensure a good sea
son of catches.
 Awonawilona
 Creator god. Pueblo Indian (Zuni) [Mesoamer
ica]. The androgynous creator of heaven and
 earth and of all life, which he engendered by toss
ing pieces of his skin into the primeval ocean.
 Axo-Mama
 Goddess of potato crops. South American Indian
 [Peru]. A model of this minor deity was made out
 of parts of the plant as a harvest fetish and kept for
 a year before being burned in a ritual to ensure a
 good potato harvest.
 Aya
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Derived from the Sumerian model of
 S
 ˇERIDA. Consort of the sun god S ˇAMASˇ whose
 marriage was celebrated at New Year in Babylon.
 Ayaba
 Hearth goddess. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. The
 sister of LOKO, god of the trees, whose wood is
 burned in the home to cook food.
 Ayi’-Uru’n Toyo’n (lord bright creator)
 Creator spirit. Yakut [central Siberia]. 
See also URU’N AJY TOYO’N.
 Ayiyanayaka
 Plague god. Singhalese [Sri Lanka]. A deity of
 fields and woodlands who is still revered as a
 guardian of crops and a protector against plague.
 Ayurvasita (control of life)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS or goddesses personifying the
 disciplines of spiritual regeneration. Color:
 whitish red. Attributes: image of Amidabuddha
 and jewel.
 Ayyappan
 Local god of growth. Hindu. Particularly recog
nized in the Kerala region.
 Azizos
 Astral tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Ara
bian. Locally worshiped at Palmyra, where he
 personifies the morning star, in company with his
 brother ARSU, who is the evening star. Associated
 with horses or camels. He was also venerated sep
arately in Syria as god of the morning star, in
 company with the astral god Monimos.
6
 B
 Ba (1)
 Goddess of drought. Chinese. She is identified
 in some texts as the daughter of the god HUANG
 TI.
 Ba (2)
 Ram god. Egyptian (Lower). A fertility 
deity from early in Egyptian religion invoked
 particularly at Mendes. In a later cult, the 
name ba comes to represent the spirituality of a
 deity, often represented in an animal, e.g. the
 bull, or the mortal manifestation of a god as
 pharaoh.
 Ba Xian
 Collective name for gods. Taoist (Chinese). A
 group of eight divine beings, once mortal, 
who achieved immortality through their 
exemplary lifestyles. There are many such
 groups in Chinese religious belief. The Ba 
Xian are probably the most widely revered.
 Many people carry amulets and other charms 
in the form of the symbols of these deities. 
The eight gods are Cao Guo-jiu; HAN XIANG
ZI; HE XIAN-GU; LAN CAI-HE; LI TIE-GUAI; LU
 DONG-BIN; ZHANG GUO-LAO; and ZHONG-LI
 QUAN.
 BAAL (lord)
 ORIGIN Western Semitic (Canaanite) [northern
 Israel, Lebanon and later Egyptian]. Vegetation
 deity and national god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC or
 earlier to 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Aliyn Baal; HADAD.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Ugarit [Ras S ˇamra and 
Jebel el Aqra]; Asˇdod during Philistine period.
 Otherwise generally down the corn-bearing
 coastal plain of the eastern Mediterranean,
 including Baal-Hazor, Baal-Sidon and Baal
Tyre [Lebanon]. Memphis [Egypt].
 ART REFERENCES a stele from Ras S ˇamra has a
 seated god with bull horns which is thought to
 be either Baal or IL; a model calf recently dis
covered there may also symbolize Baal.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ugaritic creation texts from
 Ras S ˇamra, particularly the legends of Baal and
 ANAT and Baal and MOT; Vetus Testamentum.
 Baal may have originated in pre-agricultural times
 as god of storms and rain. He is the son of DAGAN
 and in turn is the father of seven storm gods, the
 Baalim of the Vetus Testamentum, and seven mid
wife goddesses, the SASURATUM. He is considered
 to have been worshiped from at least the nine
teenth century BC. Later he became a vegetation
 god concerned with fertility of the land. Baal is
 41
42 Baal Malage
 Baal Malage
 said to have gained his kingship in primeval times
 wrested, with the help of weapons made by divine
 craftsmen (see also OTHIN), from the powers of
 chaos in the form of the sea and the river tyran
nies, or more specifically the god Yamm.
 Baal lives in a vast and opulent palace on a
 mountain called S ˇapan. Old connotations of a
 weather god remain in the texts which describe
 the voice of Baal as being like thunder, and a hole
 in the floor of his palace through which he waters
 the earth. According to one text his servants are
 in the form of seven pages and eight boars, all of
 which, like his daughters, PIDRAY daughter of
 mist and Tallay daughter of showers, probably
 have a fertility function. Sister of the goddess
 Anat, he reflects the confrontation theme, first
 established in ancient Near Eastern religions, of
 a god constantly and energetically engaged with
 the forces of disorder. It is a combat that causes
 his temporary ill-fortune but from which, annu
ally, he emerges triumphant. Baal is said to have
 sired a bull calf, the guarantee of his power in
 absence, before descending to the underworld to
 challenge the forces of chaos in the form of the
 god Mot (see also INANA/ISˇTAR); he dies, is
 restored through the efforts of Anat and in the
 seventh year kills Mot (VT Exodus 23.10-11
 describes six years of harvest followed by a sev
enth year in which the land must lie fallow). Vic
tory was celebrated at the autumn festival of New
 Year in the month of Tisˇri pending the arrival of
 the rains. Baal-zebul (VT) derives from Baal and
 zbl meaning prince.
 From the mid-sixteenth century BC in the
 Egyptian New Kingdom, Baal enjoyed a signifi
cant cult following, but the legend of his demise
 and restoration was never equated with that of
 OSIRIS.
 In the Greco-Roman period, Baal became
 assimilated in the Palestine region with ZEUS and
 JUPITER, but as a Punic deity [Carthage] he was
 allied with SATURNUS, the god of seed-sowing.
 Local tutelary god. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Probably of Canaanite origin, closely equating with
 BAAL S ˇAMIN and known only from inscriptions.
 Baal S ˇamin (lord of heaven)
 Head of the pantheon. Western Semitic (Phoeni
cian). Probably originated in Canaanite culture as
 a god of rain and vegetation, but became exten
sively revered in places as far apart as Cyprus and
 Carthage. Epithets include “bearer of thunder.”
 Baal S ˇamin is first mentioned in a fourteenth cen
tury BC treaty between the Hittite king Suppiluli
uma and Nigmadu II of Ugarit. He had a major
 sanctuary at Byblos, according to inscription, “built
 by Yehemilk.” Josephus confirms that his cult
 existed at the time of Solomon. At Karatepe his
 name appears at the head of a list of national deities
 and on Seleucid coinage he is depicted wearing a
 half-moon crown and carrying a radiate sun disc.
 Other epithets include “lord of eternity” and he
 may also have been god of storms at sea, a patron
 deity of mariners. By Hellenic times he equated
 with ZEUS in the Greek pantheon and the Romans
 identified him as Caelus (sky). Also Baal-S ˇamem.
 Baal Sapon
 Local tutelary god. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Probably of Canaanite origin and closely equating
 with BAAL S ˇAMIN. According to Ugaritic texts he
 lives on a mountain in the north of Phoenicia
 known as Saphan, which may have served as a bea
con for mariners. Other local variations of moun
tain deities include Baal Hermon and Baal Brathy.
 Baba
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Locally worshiped in
 Lagasˇ, where Gudea built her a temple. Also Bau.
Babi
 Bagala 43
 Malevolent god. Egyptian. Known from as early
 as the Old Kingdom (circa 2700 BC). Babi is
 seen as a violent and hostile deity whose pres
ence can be highly dangerous during the cere
mony of the Weighing of the Heart in the Hall
 of the Two Truths (see also AMMUT). Con
versely he can also act in a protective capacity.
 Closely associated with sexual virility in the
 underworld, Babi is ithyphallic. A god active in
 the darkness, his penis serves variously as the
 mast on the underworld ferry boat, and the bolt
 on heaven’s doors. Depicted as an ithyphallic
 male baboon.
 Bacabs
 Attendant gods. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Four deities identified with points of
 the compass and colors, thus Hobnil (red) resides
 in the east, Can Tzicnal (white) in the north, Zac
 Cimi (black) in the west and Hozanek (yellow) in
 the south. They are also identified as the Toliloch
 (opossum actors) in the Codex Dresden, where
 each carries the image of the ruling god for the
 incoming year on his back. Hobnil is also a patron
 deity of beekeepers.
 Bacax
 Local god. Roman-North African. A rare exam
ple of a named deity from this region, thought to
 have been worshiped as a cave god. Known from
 inscription at Cirta [Constantine].
 BACCHUS
 ORIGIN Roman. God of wine and intoxication.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to 
AD 400.
 SYNONYMS LIBER; DIONYSOS (Greek). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Roman world.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs. 
LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil) etc. 
Bacchus is modeled closely on the Greek god
 DIONYSOS. In Roman mythology his parents are
 JUPITER and SEMELE, the daughter of Kadmos, who
 became deified only after her death by fire on
 Olympus. Bacchus grew up through childhood with
 a wet-nurse Ino (LEUKOTHEA). As a youth he was
 entrusted to the satyr Silenus. He is depicted as a
 youthful figure wearing an ivy or grape crown and
 carrying a wand or thyrsus. He is also frequently
 drawn riding in a chariot pulled by leopards.
 As god of wine and intoxication, his court
 includes the female Bacchantes, nymphs, fauns
 and satyrs. Bacchus was worshiped extensively
 and commanded a number of festivals including
 the Liberalia and Bacchanalia. These possess
 strongly phallic connotations and on occasions
 the god was represented by a model phallus.
 Badb
 War goddess. Celtic (Irish). One of the aspects of
 the MORRIGAN. Capable of changing shape at
 will. She confronts the Irish hero Cu Chulainn
 before a battle and terrifies him by turning into
 Badb Catha, the crow and harbinger of death.
 Badi Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu [northern Indian]. A
 SAKTI and one of the seven SAPTAMATARAS
 (mothers) who in later Hinduism became
 regarded as of evil intent, attacking children 
during puberty. Particularly recognized in Bengal.
 Bagala (power of cruelty)
 Goddess. Hindu. One of a group of ten
 MAHAVIDYAS personifying the SAKTI of S ˇIVA.
 Aspects include VIRARATRI.
44 Bagba
 Bagba
 Animistic spirit. West African. Fetish who
 allegedly controls the wind and rain and 
whose shaman keeps the winds locked in a 
huge pot.
 Bagisht
 God of flood waters and prosperity. Kafir
 [Afghanistan]. The son of the supreme goddess
 DISANI, conceived when she was raped from
 behind by an obscure demonic entity in the shape
 of a ram who violated her while she was milking
 cows by a lakeside. Bagisht is said to have been
 born in the current of the Prasun river where
upon the turbulent waters became smooth-flow
ing and parted to allow the infant to reach the
 bank. There seem to have been no elaborate sanc
tuaries but rather an abundance of simple shrines
 always placed close to water. The god was cele
brated at the main festivals of the Kafir agricul
tural year and received sacrificial portions of
 meat. Also Opkulu.
 Bagvarti
 Tutelary goddess. Urartian [Armenia]. The con
sort of the creator god HALDI.
 BAIAME
 ORIGIN Australian aboriginal.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from antiquity.
 SYNONYMS Biame, Byamee 
Baiame is a creator god, revered as the supreme
 being and instrument of good, principally by the
 Wiradyuri and Kamilaroi groups of aborigines
 in the southeast of Australia. His chief consort 
is generally referred to as BIRRAHGNOOLOO. His
 voice is represented when the “bull roarer” 
native instrument is swung and, according to
 mythology, he first created animals during the
 Dreamtime and then gathered them all together
 in order to select various of their characteris
tics, which he incorporated into human beings.
 He fashioned two men and a woman from 
the red earth of Australia, showed them the
 plants that they could eat with safety and created
 laws for them to follow. He is the father of
 DARAMULUM and is identified in the heavens 
by the Southern Cross. In other aboriginal 
traditions he is known as Twanyrika.
 Bala (girl)
 1. Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 Of vague affinity but generally of youthful
 appearance. Seated upon a lotus throne. Attrib
utes: book and rosary. 
2. Messenger goddess. Jain [India]. One of the
 twenty-four SASANADEVATAS.
 Balakrsna
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). KRSNA in child
 form (see Krsna).
 Balam (jaguar)
 Guardian deities. Mayan (Yucatec, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Poorly defined spirits
 who protect individuals in daily life. Four balam
 stand at the cardinal points around a village to
 guard against dangerous animals. They also pro
tect the four sides of a milpa (smallholding)
 against thieves.
 Balaparamita (perfection of strength)
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. One of a group 
of twelve PARAMITAS. Spiritual offspring of 
RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: red. Attributes: book
 and banner with jewel.
Balarama (strength of Rama)
 Baltis 45
 Incarnation of the god VIS ˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). May have originated in Vedic times as an
 agricultural fertility deity. He is the son of
 VASUDEVA and DEVAKI, though born from the
 womb of ROHINI. Jointly with KRSNA (his brother),
 he is identified as the eighth avatara (incarnation)
 of Visˇnu, or, with RAMA, as the seventh. Legend
 describes how Visˇnu impregnated the belly of the
 goddess Devaki with two hairs, one black, one
 white. To ensure their safety against a demon king,
 they were transferred before birth to Rohini. Krsna
 grew to be dark-skinned, and Balarama light. The
 latter enjoys similar characteristics to Krsna but
 fails to attract the same popularity. He is usually
 depicted on the right side of Krsna, rarely standing
 alone. The consort of Balarama is REVATI and his
 sons are Nisatha and Ulmuka. Epithets included
 Ananda (joy). In Jainism he is known as Baladeva.
 Attributes: arrow, club, drinking cup, fan palm,
 honey pot, lotus, pestle, pitcher, plough, prayer
 wheel, shield and sword.
 Bala-Sakti
 Goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern India].
 Youthful deity who presides over six CAKRAS or
 prayer wheels. Often accompanied by a geomet
ric magical diagram or yantra. Attributes: book,
 hook, noose and rosary.
 BALDER (lord)
 ORIGIN Icelandic (Nordic). The dying god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP AD700(possibly ear
lier) through to Christianization (circa AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS Baldr; Baldaeg (Anglo-Saxon).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT unknown.
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose 
Edda (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo), runic
 inscriptions.
 Balder is the spotless “good” god, the “shining
 one,” OTHIN’s favored second son. He lives in a
 hall named Breidablik. He is the father of the god
 FORSETI. According to Snorri’s account, Balder
 was made invulnerable to injury or death by his
 mother FRIGG who had extracted a promise from
 “all things” not to harm him. She had omitted the
 mistletoe as being too small and insignificant and
 so, using the blind god HODER as his instrument,
 LOKI caused Balder’s death by guiding Hoder’s
 hand and turning a sprig of mistletoe into a 
lethal dart.
 Saxo, in contrast, defines Balder as a warrior
 slain by a magic sword in a battle of jealous rivalry
 between him and Hoder for the hand of the god
dess NANNA. There are separate suggestions that
 Balder traveled the road to the underworld ruled
 by HEL in company with many other slain war
riors, implying that he met his death in a wider
 combat.
 There is no evidence of a Germanic precedent
 for Balder and he is probably of purely Norse
 extraction. Attempts have been made to cast him
 as a copy of Christ but these seem wholly
 unfounded. It is also impossible to relate Balder to
 the dying and rising gods found in other religions
 (DUMUZI, TELEPINU, OSIRIS, etc.), since there is
 no suggestion of his return from Hel’s kingdom of
 the dead, though there is an implication that he
 will be released by Hel at Ragnarok.
 Bali
 Demonic god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The
 son of Virocana, his power was removed by VIS ˇNU
 in his avatara of VAMANA.
 Baltis
 Local goddess. Pre-Islamic Arabian. Known from
 Carrhae in western Mesopotamia and identified
 as the apotheosis of the planet Venus.
46 Banba
 Banba
 Fertility goddess. Celtic (Irish). One of the
 aspects of the MORRIGAN. A name of the “Sover
eignty of Ireland” to whom the king was married
 in symbolic ceremony. Also a goddess of war
 capable of changing shape from girl to hag, and
 into birds and animals. 
See also BADB, ERIU, Fodla, Medb and MAEVE.
 Banebdjedet
 Ram god. Egyptian (Lower). Possibly concerned
 with arbitration, his consort is the fish goddess
 HATMEHYT. He is the father of HARPOKRATES.
 According to tradition (Chester Beatty I papyrus)
 he was called upon to intercede in the contest for
 the Egyptian kingdoms between HORUS and
 SETH. He is placed in some accounts in Upper
 Egypt on the island of Seheil at the first Nile
 cataract, but his cult is centered on Mendes in
 the Delta region of Lower Egypt [Tell et-Ruba]
 and is closely linked with the mother of Rameses
 III. He is generally depicted in anthropomorphic
 form, but with the head of a ram.
 Banga
 God of clear waters. Ngbandi [northern Democ
ratic Republic of Congo and Central African
 Republic]. One of seven gods invoked at day
break, the creator deity of white-skinned people.
 Bangputys
 Sea god. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. Known as the
 “god who blows the waves.”
 Ba-Pef
 Chthonic underworld god. Egyptian. An obscure
 malevolent deity known from the Old Kingdom
 (circa 2700 BC) in which he may have enjoyed a
 priesthood. According to limited references
 among the Pyramid Texts, he had a cult following
 and was associated in some way with pain or spir
itual anguish affecting the king.
 Baphomet
 A medieval deity allegedly worshiped in secret by
 the Knights Templar, Baphomet is known from
 the fourteenth century or possibly earlier. The
 name may be a corruption of the Islamic founder
 and prophet, Mahomet, but its etymology
 remains unclear. Described by its critics as a
 source and initiator of evil, some authorities have
 placed the idol of Baphomet at the center of ini
tiation and other magical rituals once practiced by
 the Templars. In part it was this tradition that
 brought charges of heresy against the Templars at
 the end of the thirteenth and start of the four
teenth centuries, after which they fell into dis
grace. The precise nature of any idolatory is
 unknown, though there are unsubstantiated
 claims that the image was modeled androgy
nously on that of ARTEMIS of Ephesus.
 The image of Baphomet was romanticized dur
ing the nineteenth century by the German anti
quarian Josef von Hammer-Purgstall. In a
 publication entitled Mysterium Baphometis Revela
tum he gave the deity the form either of a severed
 head with two faces, bearded or unshaven, or of a
 black cat. The bearded figure is depicted in the
 church of St. Merri in Paris. Alternative imagery
 has been of an androgynous Satanic goat sitting
 astride the world with a flaming torch located
 between the horns, a star above the eyes, female
 breasts, a reptilian belly surmounted by snakes
 and goat-like hoofs. This imagery was depicted by
 the nineteenth-century romantic interpreter of
 occultism Eliphas Levi, and Baphomet was
 adopted subsequently as the tutelary deity of the
 quasi-magical Ordo Templi Orientis organization
 founded by the twentieth-century English
 occultist Aleister Crowley.
Barastar
 Beg-Tse 47
 Chthonic underworld god. Ossetian [Caucasus
 region]. The judge of souls, directing them either
 to paradise or to oblivion.
 Bars ˇamin
 ˇAMIN.
 Weather or sky god. Pre-Christian Armenian.
 Probably derived from the Semitic god BAAL
 S
 Basamum
 God of healing. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian.
 The name probably derives from the remedial
 plant balsam.
 BASTET
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Feline goddess associated with
 the vengeance of the sun god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2700 BC to
 the end of Egyptian history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Bubastis in the Delta region
 of Lower Egypt and probably at the Karnak
 temple complex in Upper Egypt.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, wall paintings,
 papyrus illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES Middle Kingdom coffin
 texts etc.
 Bastet is the daughter of the sun god RE and is
 regarded as his instrument of vengeance, the “rage
 in his eye.” Alternatively she is the eldest daugh
ter of AMUN. She has a son, the lion-headed god
 MIHOS.
 Texts recounting battles may describe the
 pharaoh’s enemies being slaughtered like the vic
tims of Bastet. Thus she is first depicted as a
 lioness, and then in the guise of a cat from circa
 1000 BC onward when she becomes more peace
able in character. The cat was considered sacred
 to her and cat cemeteries, containing mummified
 animals, have been found at various sites. Her
 name involves the hieroglyph for a sealed
 alabaster jar containing perfume. In the sanctuary
 of Khafre at Giza, her name is engraved on the
 facade with that of the goddess HATHOR, sym
bolizing the protectresses of north and south
 respectively. In Hellenic times she is partly syn
cretized with ARTEMIS.
 Bat
 Cow goddess of fertility. Egyptian (Upper). She
 was probably well known in the Old Kingdom
 (circa 2700 BC onward). Associated principally
 with Upper Egypt, for a while she may have
 rivaled Hathor in Lower Egypt but by the time of
 the New Kingdom (sixteenth century BC) her
 influence had waned. She may be represented on
 the Narmer Palette (Cairo Museum) which com
memorates the unification of the two kingdoms.
 Bat is only rarely found in large sculptures and
 paintings, but is often the subject of Egyptian
 period jewelry, including amulets and ritual
 sistrum rattles. Depicted as a cow or anthropo
morphically with bovine ears and horns. Also Bata.
 Baubo
 Mother goddess. Western Semitic (Syrian).
 Known locally from Priene and largely became
 syncretized with ATARGATIS, KYBELE, etc.
 Beg-Tse (concealed coat of mail)
 God of war. Buddhist and Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of a group of eight DHARMAPALA with terrible
 appearance and royal attire. Stands with one foot
 on a horse and one on a man. Color: red. Attrib
utes: banner, fire, skin and sword. May appear
 with three eyes. Also Cam-srin.
48 Behanzin
 Behanzin
 Fish god. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. Invoked by
 fishermen to ensure plentiful catches.
 Bel
 Generic title meaning “lord.” Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian). The Babylonian god
 MARDUK was often addressed as Bel, and the
 name occurs in the Vetus Testamentum. The New
 Year festival of akitu in Babylon included a cere
mony of “leading Bel by the hand.” The name also
 appears at Palmyra as the tutelary creator god
 whose attributes include lightning and an eagle.
 Belatucadros
 War god. Celtic (British). According to some
 authors he is the horned god of the north equat
ing to CERNUNNOS. The Romans syncretized
 him with the god MARS.
 BELENUS
 ORIGIN Celtic (Continental European and prob
ably Irish). Pastoral deity concerned with light,
 solar worship and healing.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization (circa AD 400) and in
 some circumstances much later.
 SYNONYMS Apollo Belenus; Bile (Irish). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT mainly sanctuaries in north
ern Italy (Aquileia) and southwestern Gaul
 (Aquitaine).
 ART REFERENCES horse statuettes; stone carvings
 and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings; Roman writers—Tertullian, Herodian,
 Ausonius; votive inscriptions.
 Considered to be one of the oldest of the Celtic
 gods thus far recognized. Celebrated long into the
 Christian era in the festival of Beltine or Cetshamain,
 set on May 1, the start of the “warm season.” The
 rites involved lighting huge bonfires and driving
 cattle between them as a protection against disease.
 It marked the season when cattle were liberated
 after winter to graze the open pastures.
 Belenus bears many similarities with the Greek
 deity APOLLO as a god of light, sun and healing.
 Though appearing more often as a purely Celtic
 god, he was sometimes worshiped as Apollo
 Belenus, for example at the thermal spring 
sanctuary at St. Sabine [Côte d’Or], and in this
 guise became associated with horses which are
 well-attested as sun symbols in the Celtic Bronze
 Age. Model horses were found at the Gaul site.
 Ausonius, a fourth century poet from the Bor
deaux region, mentions Belenus sanctuaries in
 Aquitaine. Tertullian refers to them in Austria,
 Herodian places others in northern Italy.
 Belet-Ili (lady of the gods)
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Known in Babylon and probably mod
eled on NINHURSAG˜A.
 Belet-Seri
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian). The recorder of the dead
 entering the otherworld. Known as the “Scribe of
 the Earth.”
 Belili
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian). 
See GESˇTIN-ANA.
 Bella Pennu
 Sun god. Indian (Khond). A local deity in the
 Orissa province synonymous with BOORA PENNU.
Bellona
 BES 49
 Mother goddess and goddess of war. Roman. She
 becomes syncretized with the Cappadocian
 mother goddess MA. The first known temple 
dedicated to Ma-Bellona by the Romans is dated
 to 296 BC. Bellona was attended by Asiatic priests
 who performed frenzied dances and gashed 
themselves with swords, offering the blood on the
 goddess’s altars. Because of its violent nature,
 Rome refused officially to recognize the cult until
 the third century AD.
 Beltiya (my lady)
 Generic title of goddess. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian). ZARPANITUM (SARPANITUM),
 the consort of the Babylonian god MARDUK, is
 often addressed as Beltiya.
 Bendis
 Mother goddess. Thracian. Hellenized and linked
 stylistically with ARTEMIS as a huntress. Appeared
 in Athens during the Peloponnesian War. Attrib
utes: boots, torch and pointed cap.
 Benten-San
 Goddess of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven
 deities classed as gods of fortune and the only god
dess in the group. A popular deity with many sanc
tuaries dedicated to her, she is a patron of music
 and holds a biwa instrument in her hand. Snakes,
 believed to stand for jealousy, are often coiled
 around her statues. Because of this, married cou
ples are reluctant to visit her shrines together. Her
 priesthood is both Shinto and Buddhist and she is
 closely linked with the goddess SARASVATI.
 Benu
 Transmuted bird-like form of a sun god. Egypt
ian (Upper). A deity mentioned in Pyramid Texts
 (circa twenty-fifth century BC) and linked with
 the sun god of Heliopolis, ATUM. He is also said
 to have been self-created from the primeval ocean
 and is sometimes a symbol of rebirth in the after
life. Benu may have augmented the Greek classi
cal tradition of the Phoenix. He appears in the
 Old Kingdom as a yellow wagtail but later
 becomes a heron, wearing the conical white
 crown of Upper Egypt with two slender feathers
 pointing backwards from its crest.
 Bera Pennu
 Vegetation goddess. Northern Indian. Wor
shiped by the Khonds in Bengal. She was the
 recipient of human sacrifice to ensure good har
vest, particularly of the spice turmeric, and as a
 protection against disease and infirmity. The sac
rificial victim or meriah was youthful, often kept
 for years as a holy person before death and was
 always either the offspring of a previous sacrifi
cial victim, or purchased from impoverished fam
ilies for the purpose. He or she was generally
 strangled, sometimes in the fork of a tree, after
 days of festivities. In other instances the victim
 was cut up alive.
 BES
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Guardian deity of women in
 labor.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP appearing in art
 from circa 1500 BC and probably earlier, until
 the end of Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no specific sanctuaries, but a
 household god and generally associated with
 birthplaces, including those of royalty.
 ART REFERENCES walls of temples at Thebes;
 curved ivory batons from Middle Period; walls
 of birth houses.
 LITERARY SOURCES none significant.
50 Bethel
 A dwarfish and hideous, but essentially benign
 deity whose ugliness wards off evil. He is generally
 present at births exerting a protective influence.
 Bes appears with a large-bearded and barely
 human face, a thick body, short arms and short
 bandy legs. He wears a plumed crown and often
 wields a short sword. He possesses a lion’s mane,
 ears, tail and usually has his mouth open and
 tongue protruding. As a god of birth, Bes often
 carries the SA symbol of protection. He is also
 sometimes drawn as a musician with a tambourine.
 Bes was adopted by Greco-Roman culture. The
 Greeks depicted him in strongly ithyphallic guise
 with a disproportionately large and erect penis
 and, from the time of the Roman occupation, he
 appears in the mode of a soldier wearing a short
 military tunic.
 Bethel
 Local tutelary god. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Probably of Aramaean or Syrian origin. First men
tioned in a fourteenth century treaty between the
 Hittite king Suppiluliuma and Nigmadu II of
 Ugarit [Ras S ˇamra]. He appears more regularly on
 inscriptions from the end of the seventh century BC
 and enjoyed considerable popularity during the
 neo-Babylonian period. Bethel is mentioned in the
 Biblical text of Jeremiah 48.13, implying that some
 Israelites acknowledged this deity. There is no evi
dence of links with the historical place names,
 including that mentioned in Genesis 38.13.
 Bhadra (auspicious)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Atten
dant of S ˇIVA. Generally seated. Attributes: blue
 lotus, fruit, rosary and trident.
 Bhaga (the dispenser of fortune)
 Minor sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). 
In Vedic times, the incarnation of women’s 
good fortune in marriage. One of six ADITYAS,
 sons of the goddess ADITI. Consort: SIDDHI.
 Attributes: two lotuses, prayer wheel and 
trident.
 Bhagavan (the lord)
 Tutelary god. Northern and central Indian.
 Worshiped by the Bhils and other tribes as the
 original creator spirit and a judge of the dead
 soul. Also an epithet of VISˇNU and KRSNA. Also
 Bhagwan.
 Bhairava (terrible)
 Minor frightful form of the god S ˇIVA. Hindu
 (Puranic and later). Guardian deity of doorways.
 A so-called ugra aspect, generally depicted in sim
ilar style to S ˇiva but with up to five heads and ten
 arms and said to have been born from S ˇ iva’s
 blood. Attributes: hook and noose. Aspects and
 epithets include Kalaratri, KSETRAPALA and
 MAHAKALA. Also Bhairon, linked with the cult of
 dogs and BHAIRAVA, one of a group of
 MAHAVIDYAS personifying the SAKTI of S ˇiva.
 Bhaisajyaguru (supreme physician)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among one of a series of medicine
 buddhas known as a SMAN-BLA in Tibet. In
 Lamaism he is the fifth in a series of manusibud
dhas. Typically depicted with stretched earlobes
 and a row of small curls fringing the forehead.
 Color: blue or gold. Attributes: fruit, sometimes
 with a bowl.
 Bharani (bearing)
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A malevolent NAKSATRA, daughter 
of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Also 
Apabharanis.
Bharat Mata (Mother India)
 Bhutadamara 51
 Mother goddess. Modern Hindu. Evolved from
 the writings of the nineteenth century Bengali,
 Bankim Chandra Chatterjee. Shrines are
 designed in the form of a map of India.
 Bharati
 Minor goddess of sacrifices. Hindu (Vedic, Epic
 and Puranic). She is invoked to appear on the sac
rificial field before a ritual. Usually associated
 with the goddess SARASVATI. Also regarded as a
 consort of GANESA.
 Bhavanavasi
 Gods. Jain [India]. A generic name given to
 deities of youthful appearance who are arranged
 in ten groups all with the suffix -kumara. Thus
 AGNI-; ASURA-; DIK-; DVIPA-; NAGA-; STANITA-;
 SUPARNA-; UDADHI-; VAYU-; VIDYUT-.
 Bhima (terrible)
 1. Warrior god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 prince of the mythical Pandu family and one of
 the heroes of the Mahabharata epic, Bhima is usu
ally depicted wielding a sword and a club. He is a
 son of the god of the winds VAYU. He is perceived
 as a god of immense strength and great cruelty,
 which separates him from the heroic figure of
 ARJUNA, his brother, with whom he is linked in
 the epic. Attribute: a club. Also Bhimasena.
 2. Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An
 attendant of BUDDAKEPALA.
 Bhrkuti-Tara (she who frowns)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. In
 Lamaism particularly, a cruel form of TARA, the
 mother of the BUDDHA. The so-called “yellow
 Tara.” An emanation of AMITABHA. Also identified
 as a female BODHISATTVA or buddha-designate.
 Color: yellow. Attribute: image of Amitabha,
 lotus, rosary, staff, trident and water jar. Three
eyed. Also JANGULI and VAJRATARA.
 Bhumi (the earth on which all things are
 formed)
 Collective name for a group of deities. Buddhist
 (Varyana). Twelve personifications of the spiri
tual spheres through which a BODHISATTVA or 
buddha-designate passes in his quest for perfection
 of knowledge. Common attribute: a staff.
 Bhumi Devata
 Vegetation goddess. Indian. Worshiped by many
 primitive tribes.
 Bhumidevi (the earth goddess)
 Fertility goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic)
 [southern India]. The second wife of VISˇNU (or
 KRSNA). Her son is Naraka. Bhumidevi is often
 depicted standing on the left (occasionally right)
 hand of the VARAHA avatara of Visˇnu. In the
 north she is known as PUSTI. She is often depicted
 sitting on a lotus throne with bared breasts.
 Attributes: blue lotus, lotus, lute, pomegranate,
 pot with herbs, pot with vegetables and water 
jar. Also Bhu, Bhudevi, BHUMI, MAHI, PRTHIVI,
 VASUDHARA and Zami-Mata.
 Bhumiya (guardian of fields)
 Fertility god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic) [north
ern India]. Guardian deity of fields, worshiped as
 a rough stone icon. In later times a form of VIS ˇNU.
 Bhutadamara (tumult of demons)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). May be depicted
 reclining on the Hindu goddess APARAJITA. Attrib
utes: snakes in the hair, and staff. Three-eyed.
52 Bhutamata
 Bhutamata (mother of goblins)
 Terrible goddess. Hindu. A frightful form of 
PARVATI. Accompanied by a lion. Attribute: 
phallus (on the head), shield and sword.
 Bhuvanesvari (lady of the spheres)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of a
 group of ten MAHAVIDYAS personifying the SAKTI
 of S ˇIVA. Also an epithet applied to several god
desses. Aspects include Siddharatri. Attributes:
 hook and noose.
 Bia
 Goddess of force. Greek. The daughter of the
 underworld goddess STYX and the sister of
 KRATOS, god of strength.
 Bi-har
 Guardian deity. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One 
of the guardian maharajas protecting against
 demons. Attended by a lion. Color: white. Attrib
utes: arrow, bow, knife, staff, sword and trident.
 Three-eyed.
 Birdu
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian). Consort of MANUNGAL
 and syncretized with NERGAL.
 Birrahgnooloo
 Creator goddess. Australian aboriginal. She is
 recognized by several aboriginal clans as the chief
 consort of BAIAME, the creator god. Revered as
 the all-mother of humankind and creator of living
 things on earth, her role largely parallels that of
 Baiame. Traditions suggest that during the
 Dreamtime she planted vegetation as she moved
 through the primordial world, fashioning 
creatures from clay and breathing spirit into
 human beings. Her eldest son is DARAMULUM or
 Gayandi, regarded as an intermediary between
 Baiame and humankind.
 Bishamon
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven deities
 concerned with fortune, he appears as 
a warrior clad in full armor holding a spear in one
 hand and a toy pagoda, identified as a “tower of
 treasure” in the other. He has been linked with
 the Buddhist god Vaisravana (KUBERA).
 Bo Hsian
 God. Taoist (Chinese). The Taoist counterpart
 of the Buddhist deity SAMANTABHADRA. Usually
 depicted upon a white elephant. He is considered
 to be a god of wisdom.
 Boann (she of the white cows)
 River goddess. Celtic (Irish). The local goddess of
 the river Boyne. She is one of the consorts of the
 DAGDA, alternatively of a minor local deity
 Elcmar, cuckolded by the Dagda who sent him
 away on an errand for nine months. The mother
 of Angus mac Og.
 See also AENGUS.
 Bodhisattva (one whose essence is perfect
 knowledge)
 Generic title for a buddha-designate. Buddhist
 [northern India, Tibet, China and Japan]. 
Any one of the earlier stages of a future 
buddha. Depicted wearing regal dress and 
trappings, including a crown. The most signif
icant include AVALOKITESVARA, MAITREYA and
 MANJUSRI.
Boldogasszony
 BRAGI 53
 Tutelary goddess. Pre-Christian Hungarian. The
 guardian deity of women and children, she
 became syncretized with the Virgin Mary after
 Christianization.
 Bolon Ti Ku
 Chthonic underworld gods. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. A collective term for a
 group of nine deities not otherwise clearly
 defined. They are probably still invoked by mod
ern Mexican Indians.
 Bombay Kamayan
 Local disease goddess. Hindu [northern India].
 Particularly worshiped at Gaya.
 Bonchor
 Tutelary god. Pre-Islamic Berber [Tunisia]. Prob
ably recognized as a creator deity.
 Boora Pennu
 God of light. Indian (Khond). A local deity in
 the Orissa province who created the earth god
dess TARI PENNU as his consort and through her
 engendered the other great gods. Until recently
 this deity was the subject of sacrifice in notori
ous meriah rituals, which involved violent human
 sacrifice.
 Bor
 Archetypal god. Nordic (Icelandic). In the cre
ation account, according to Snorri, a living crea
ture called Ymir was formed in the misty void of
 Ginnungagap. Ymir was nourished by the milk of
 the cow Audhumla, who licked salty ice blocks
 and released a second individual called BURI. He
 had a son called Bor. Bor, in turn, engendered
 the AESIR gods OTHIN, VILI and VE. Also Borr. 
See also Othin.
 Boreas
 God of the north wind. Greek and also Roman.
 He controlled the storm which destroyed the
 Persian fleet sailing against Athens. Identified
 with winter frosts. According to the Theogony
 (Hesiod), he is the son of EOS and Astraeos and is
 of Thracian origin: “ . . . when Thracian Boreas
 huddles the thick clouds.”
 Borvo
 God of healing. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Identi
fied with several therapeutic springs and mineral
 baths.
 BRAGI (poet; leader)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). God of poetry.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier, until Christianization (circa
 AD 1100). 
SYNONYMS described as “the long bearded one.”
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known but probably the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri).
 A Viking deity, said by Snorri to be a son of
 OTHINand consort of IDUNN, the goddess who
 keeps the apples of immortality for the gods of
 Asgard. Bragi is possibly also a pseudonym for
 Othin himself. Often found in company with
 AEGIR. The cup over which oaths were sworn
 was known as the “cup of Bragi” and he was 
seen as a poet and orator in the hall of the slain,
 Valhalla.
54 BRAHMA
 BRAHMA (the creator)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India]. Creator god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 500BCor ear
lier until present day.
 SYNONYMS many epithets including Abjaja,
 Abjayoni, Astakarna, KAMALASANA. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT restricted since circa AD
 700 to two sanctuaries—at Lake Puskana in
 Rajputana, and at Idar near Mount Abu.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze
 but also in stone. Reliefs. 
LITERARY SOURCES mentioned in Rg Veda, but
 properly from Ramayana epic and from Puranic
 texts.
 With VISˇNU and S ˇIVA, Brahma is one of a trinity
 of supreme creator deities in the Hindu pantheon.
 His consort is generally the goddess of wisdom,
 SARASVATI, but some sources identify the goddess
 of speech, Vach. He also has a second consort, the
 milkmaid GAYATRI. Originally the title referred to
 the power of occult utterances which became
 associated with the priests or Brahmans.
 Brahma is depicted with four heads, often
 bearded, facing in four directions, and with four
 hands, sometimes with one of them raised in
 blessing or promise. As a god of knowledge he
 often carries the Vedas (earliest Sanskrit mythol
ogy said to have sprung from his head) in one of
 his hands. Other attributes include a water pot
 indicating prosperity, a spoon or a string of pearls.
 He may also carry a staff and an alms dish. He
 may be depicted with red or pink skin, wearing a
 white robe or a loin cloth with a sacred cord
 across the shoulder. His sacred animal is the
 goose. 
According to one legendary source he was cre
ated from the right side of the primordial creator
 force. His life is anticipated as a hundred heavenly
 years, each of 360 days and nights. Each day, or
 kalpa, is equal to 4,320,000 earthly years.
 Brahma’s current age is said to be fifty-one and
 after each of his years, the universe is destroyed
 and rebuilt.
 S
 Brahma is generally less popular than Visˇnu or
 ˇiva, probably because he is identified solely with
 the primordial account of creation. Legend
 describes how he created himself from the
 primeval waters using the power of his own
 desire. He thought a seed into existence which
 grew into a golden egg and from which he
 emerged after a year. The two halves of the shell
 became heaven and earth, within which he fash
ioned the sky. The Ramayana also describes him
 in the form of a boar which raises the earth on its
 tusks. By contrast the Mahabharata accounts him
 born from a lotus in the navel of Visˇnu. Else
where he emerges as a fish, or as a tortoise. Neg
ative aspects of Brahma include drunkenness and
 duplicity.
 One source describes how the beautiful god
dess SATARUPA was formed from half of Brahma’s
 own self but that, in an attempt to prevent him
 looking on his daughter with incestuous desire,
 she circled around him. His four heads resulted.
 There was once a fifth which S ˇiva decapitated
 with the thumb of his left hand. It is said that
 incest with his daughter is also partly responsible
 for Brahma’s limited worship. Alternative legend
 credits him with a daughter, Vach, by whom he
 fathered the living world.
 2. In Buddhist tradition he is also one of a group
 of DHARMAPALA with terrible appearance and
 royal attire.
 Brahmani
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism became one of the
 group of eight ASTAMATARAS or mothers. In
 another grouping one of nine NAVASAKTIS or
 mothers. She is attended by a goose and wears a
Buadza 55
 yellow robe. Attributes: book, label, rosary, tri
dent and water jar. Also Brahmi.
 Bres Macelatha
 Vegetation god. Celtic (Irish). The son of ERIU
 and of the Fomorian king Elatha. He is therefore
 part TUATHA DE DANAANby parentage but, having
 become Lord of Ireland, he sides with the Fomo
rians in the Battle of Moytura and is defeated.
 Concerned with the supply of food from the land.
 Brhaspati (lord of prayer)
 Astral god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic). The
 personification of the planet Jupiter. In Vedic
 texts he appears as a priest. The son of Angiras
 and the guru of the later Hindu pantheon. Con
sidered to be almost identical with BRAHMA. His
 consort is the goddess TARA and his son is Kaca.
 He rides in a chariot drawn by eight horses.
 Color: golden yellow. Attributes: arrow, ax
 (golden), book, bow, rosary, staff and water jar.
 Brigantia
 Tutelary goddess. Romano-Celtic (British). The
 goddess of the Brigantes in the West Riding of
 Yorkshire. She became identified with CAELESTIS.
 At Corbridge, Northumberland, there is an altar
 inscribed to various deities, including Caelestis
 Brigantia. In a carved stone relief at Birrens, on
 the Antonine Wall in Scotland, she is depicted
 with the attributes of MINERVA. She may also bear
 links with the goddess BRIGIT. She is frequently
 associated with water and herding.
 BRIGIT (exalted one)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Continental European and Irish).
 Fertility goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization (circa AD 1100) and after.
 SYNONYMS Brigid; Bride; Banfile (poetess).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various sanctuaries through
out area of Celtic influence.
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings; various inscriptions.
 A major Celtic pastoral deity, described as a “wise
 woman, the daughter of the DAGDA,” Brigit
 became “Christianized” as St. Brigit of Kildare,
 who lived from AD 450-523 and founded the first
 female Christian community in Ireland. She was
 originally celebrated on February 1 in the festival
 of Imbolc, which coincided with the beginning of
 lactation in ewes and was regarded in Scotland as
 the date on which Brigit deposed the blue-faced
 hag of winter (see CAILLEACH BHEUR). The
 Christian calendar adopted the same date for the
 Feast of St. Brigit. There is no record that a
 Christian saint ever actually existed, but in Irish
 mythology she became the midwife to the Virgin
 Mary. The name can be traced into many Irish
 and European place names. It is also akin to
 Brhati which means “exalted one” in Sanskrit.
 Britannia
 Tutelary goddess. Romano-Celtic (British). The
 genia loci of Britain who first appears on the
 coinage of Antoninus Pius in the second century
 AD. She became the symbol of the British Empire
 after being partly syncretized with the Roman
 war goddess MINERVA.
 Buadza
 God of the wind. Gan [district around Accra,
 Ghana, West Africa]. Also regarded as a storm
 god. Also Olila.
56 BUDDHA
 Buddhalocana (Buddha’s eye)
 BUDDHA (enlightened)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The founder of 
Buddhism.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present day.
 SYNONYMS Gautama, Siddharta.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric 
ritual texts.
 The deity is regarded as having been an historical
 figure, born at Kapilavastu near Gorakhpur. He
 died at Kusinagara in circa 486 BC. His father was
 SUDDHODANA of the Sakya clan, his mother was
 MAYA and his wife YASODHARA.
 Buddha is, in certain respects, the equal of the
 Hindu god VISˇNU. He is generally depicted with
 shaven or cropped head and may be crowned.
 The hair may be tightly curled. His color attrib
ute is gold.
 By tradition, he preached his first sermon at
 Mrgadava in Sarnath near Varanasi where, after a
 visit in 1956 by the Dalai Lama, an enclosure of
 gazelles was erected.
 Buddhabodhiprabhavasita (control of the
 light of the knowledge of the Buddha)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS personifying the disciplines of
 spiritual regeneration. Color: yellow. Attributes:
 prayer wheel on a jeweled banner.
 Buddhakapala (Buddha’s skullcap)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A significant ema
nation of AKSOBHYA. Alternatively a form 
of HERUKA. His SAKTI is CITRASENA. Color:
 blue-black. Attributes: club, cup, drum, image of
 Aksobhya and knife.
 Goddess. Buddhist (Shingon). A female buddha
 (see LOCANA).
 Buddhi (perception)
 1. Minor goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Sometimes
 identified as consort of the MAHA-GANAPATI form
 of the elephant god GANESA, depicted seated on
 his knee.
 2. Minor goddess. Jain.
 Budha (awakening)
 1. Astral god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 The personification of the planet Mercury. The
 son of SOMA (CANDRA) and TARA or ROHINI.
 Depicted in a chariot drawn by eight horses or
 lions (sometimes a single lion). Color: yellow.
 Attributes: bow, club, rosary, shield and sword.
 Also Candraja and Candrasuta.
 2. Astral god. Buddhist. The personification of
 the planet Mercury. Stands on a lotus. Attributes:
 bow and arrow.
 Bugid Y Aiba
 God of war. Puerto Rico and Haiti. Classed as
 one of the ZEMIS. The local Indians have believed
 that the deity can give them strength. When they
 smoke in a ritual ceremony in honor of the god,
 their arms increase in size. He will also restore
 failed eyesight.
 Buk
 River goddess. Nuer [Sudan]. A guardian against
 attack by crocodiles, she is invoked by the sacri
fice of a goat. Known as the “daughter of the
 fireflies.”
Buluc Chabtan
 Buriyas 57
 Buri
 God of war. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) 
[Mexico]. Associated with human sacrifice and
 depicted with a characteristic black line encir
cling the eye and extending down the cheek.
 Also God F.
 Bumba
 Creator god. Boshongo (Bantu) [southern Africa].
 The progenitor of the world out of chaos. When
 he experienced stomachache he vomited the
 earth, sun, moon and, finally, all living things,
 including mankind.
 Archetypal god. Nordic (Icelandic). According to
 Snorri, one of two primordial beings. Ymir was
 formed from the misty void of Ginnungagap, and
 Buri emerged from the blocks of salty ice on
 which the cosmic cow Audhumla fed. He had a
 son, BOR, who engendered the AESIR gods
 OTHIN, VILI and VE. Also Bori. 
Buriyas
 Tutelary war god. Kassite [Iran]. He was invoked
 by the Kassite armies which overthrew Babylonia
 in the sixteenth century BC.
6
 C
 Cacoch
 Creator god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. According to tradition he engendered
 the water lily from which sprang all the other
 deities of the Mayan pantheon. He is also por
trayed as a messenger of the creator god HACHA
CYUM. Also Kacoch.
 Caelestis
 Moon goddess. Carthaginian [North Africa]. The
 Romanized form of the Punic goddess TANIT.
 Elsewhere she became syncretized into the cult of
 APHRODITE-VENUS. Annual games were held in
 her honor. She was brought to Rome in the form
 of an abstract block of stone (like that of KYBELE
 from Pessinus) and became popular there during
 the early part of the third century AD; in this guise
 she was known as the “mighty protectress of the
 Tarpeian hill.”
 Cagn
 Creator god. Kalahari bushmen [southern Africa].
 The progenitor of all life on earth.
 Cailleach Bheur
 Goddess of winter. Celtic (Scottish). Depicted as
 a blue-faced hag who is reborn on October 31
 (Samhain). She brings the snow until the goddess
 BRIGIT deposes her and she eventually turns to
 stone on April 30 (Beltine). In later times the
 mythical, witch-like figure of “Black Annis” prob
ably derived from her.
 Cakra (wheel)
 Embodiment of the creator’s mind. Hindu. Emerg
ing in the form of a six-spoked wheel (less fre
quently eight) which also epitomizes the passage of
 time, and is a symbol of wholeness and protection.
 Particularly associated with VISˇNU and KRSNA, the
 cakra is a common attribute held by many deities. It
 is probably of great antiquity since it is known from
 the time of the Indus Valley civilization (prior to
 1700 BC). In Jainism and Buddhism it is the “wheel
 of the law” which leads to perfection.
 Cakresvari (lady of the cakra)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Also one of the twenty-four SASANADEVATA or
 messenger goddesses.
 Camaxtli
 God. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. 
See also MIXCOATL-CAMAXTLI.
 58
Camulos
 Candesvari 59
 Candanayika (mistress of the fierce)
 War god. Celtic (British). Probably the deity from
 which the name of Camulodunum [Colchester,
 England] derives. Known from inscriptions and
 coinage bearing the symbol of a boar.
 Camunda
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A distinct
 form of DURGA. The name is said to be a con
traction of the names of the demonic beings
 Camda and Munda killed by her. She is also rec
ognized among the SAPTAMATARA and ASTAMATARA
 mothers as well as sometimes being regarded as a
 NAVASAKTI. She stands variously on a lion, an owl
 and a corpse. Attributes: a large and varied assort
ment of objects are held. Three-eyed. Also YAMI.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist. She stands upon a corpse.
 Color: red. Attributes: cup and knife.
 Canda (violent)
 Terrible goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 distinct form of DURGA and one of a group of
 nine NAVADURGAS (“nine durgas”). Canda, with
 Munda, was also one of the demons killed by a
 form of Durga known as CAMUNDA (contraction
 of the two demonic names). She is depicted with
 a large number of attributes. Also a form of
 MAHISASURAMARDINI.
 Candali (outcast woman)
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist
Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a group of eight GAURI
 goddesses. Color: red or blue. Attributes: flames.
 Candamius
 Astral god. Romano-Iberian. Known from
 inscriptions and place-names in northern Spain
 and syncretized with Jupiter.
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A distinct
 form of DURGA and one of a group of nine
 NAVADURGAS (“nine durgas”).
 Candarosana
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A form of the god
 AKSOBHYA. Color: yellow. Attributes: noose, skin
 and sword.
 Candarupa
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A distinct
 form of DURGA and one of a group of nine
 NAVADURGAS (“nine durgas”).
 Candavati
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A distinct
 form of DURGA and one of a group of nine
 NAVADURGAS (“nine durgas”).
 Candelifera
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. Responsible for
 bringing the newborn child into the light. Usually
 associated with LUCINA and CARMENTES.
 Candesvara (the lord of Canda)
 Minor god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A benevo
lent aspect of S ˇIVA. Also an attendant on S ˇiva, said
 to have been a youthful cowherd. He sits on a lotus
 throne. Attributes: arrow, ax, bow, club, crown,
 hatchet, noose, rosary, snake, trident and water jar.
 Candesvari (fierce lady)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). She stands
 upon a corpse. Color: yellow. Attributes: grass
 and an antelope.
60 Candika
 Cao Guo-jiu
 Candika (fierce)
 Goddess of desire. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 May be included among the SAPTAMATARAS or
 ASTAMATARAS (mothers).
 Candogra (fierce and terrible)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A distinct
 form of DURGA and one of a group of nine
 NAVADURGAS (“nine durgas”).
 Candra
 1. Planet god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Per
sonified by the moon and also seen as a dikpala
 or guardian of the northern direction. Consorts
 include KAUMUDI, TARA and the NAKSATRAS or
 astral goddesses. His son is BUDHA. He drives in
 a chariot drawn by ten white horses. Color:
 white. Attributes: club, lotus, sacred rope and
 prayer wheel. The term candra usually refers to
 the cup containing the sacrificial yellow bever
age SOMA, often a synonym for the deity. Candra
 is also the apotheosis of the pale yellow moon
 disc.
 2. Planet god. Buddhist. Attended by a 
goose. Color: white. Attributes: moon disc on 
a lotus.
 Candrasekhara (moon crested)
 Form of the god S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic). 
Portrayed standing stiffly upright and wearing
 snake jewelry with the moon on the left 
side of his headdress. Attributes: ax and an 
antelope.
 Cankilikkaruppan (the black man of the
 chain)
 Local god. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil). Worshiped
 in southern India.
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, he was
 once a mortal being who achieved immortality
 through his lifestyle. The tutelary god of actors.
 Attributes include musical rattles or castanets. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Carcika (repetitive chant)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color: red.
 Attributes: cup and knife.
 Cariociecus
 War god. Romano-Iberian. Syncretized with the
 god MARS.
 Carmentes
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. Responsible for
 bringing the newborn child into the light. Usually
 associated with LUCINA and CANDELIFERA.
 Cathubodua
 War goddess. Celtic (Continental European).
 Known only from inscriptions and probably com
parable with the Irish Celtic Badb Catha.
 See also MORRIGAN.
 Caturmurti
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The specific
 form of Visˇnu with four faces. Also the syn
cretization of BRAHMA, VISˇNU, S ˇIVA and Surya.
 Cauri
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist 
and Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a group of eight
 GAURI goddesses. Color: yellow. Attribute: noose.
Cautha
 CERNUNNOS 61
 Sun god. Etruscan. Attributes include a sun disc
 crown and fire in each hand. He is depicted rising
 from the sea.
 Ce Acatl
 Minor creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively
 classed as the QUETZALCOATL complex. Also (1)
 Acatl.
 Cenkalaniyammal (lady of the red paddyfield)
 Local goddess. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil).
 Guardian of paddyfields in southern India.
 Centeocihuatl
 Maize goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Represented at various sites including
 Tula [Hidalgo]. According to the codices Borgia,
 Cospi and Fejervery-Mayer she is also one of four
 temple deities. Also Centeotl.
 CERES
 ORIGIN Roman. Mother goddess.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 400 BCto AD
 400.
 SYNONYMS DEMETER (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Roman world.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs. 
LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 Ceres is arguably the most recent model of the
 “great mother” whose predecessors include INANA,
 IS ˇTAR, ARTEMIS, KYBELE and Demeter on whom
 she is directly modeled. She is the daughter of
 KRONOS(Cronus) and RHEA and one of the more
 important consorts of JUPITER. Her daughter in
 the upper world, KORE, is the goddess of the
 underworld PROSERPINA who was abducted by
 PLUTO. She became foster-mother to Triptole
mus, an ill-fated king in the mold of the
 Mesopotamian Dumuzi, depicted in the classical
 Greek Eleusinian Mysteries. As the embodiment of
 vegetation, Ceres neglects the natural world dur
ing the period that her daughter remains below
 ground with Pluto (winter), but restores nature
 annually when Proserpina is returned to her.
 Ceres was worshiped through the festivals of
 Thesmophoria and Cerealia in sanctuaries through
out the Greco-Roman empires.
 Ceridwen
 Goddess of inspiration. Celtic (Welsh). Depicted
 as the hag-aspect of the mother goddess, she is
 the consort of TEGID FOEL. Her children are
 Creirwy (daughter) and Afagddu (son). She
 allegedly prepares the caldron of knowledge.
 CERNUNNOS
 ORIGIN Celtic (mainly Gallic). Fertility and
 chthonic god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until circa AD 1000.
 SYNONYMS none. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES Gundestrup Bowl; monumen
tal stone work and relief carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES votive inscriptions.
 Cernunnos appears to have been recognized in
 the region of Gaul which is now central France.
 He is typically drawn as a man bearing the antlers
 of a stag, not necessarily representing an animal
 spirit but a deity closely involved with animals and
 one which can transform instantly into animal
 shape. In the Celtic world, horns and antlers 
were generally regarded as symbols of virility and
 fertility. On the Celtic Gundestrup Bowl from
62 Cghene
 Denmark, Cernunnos is attended by a boar—an
 animal revered by the Celts for its speed, pugnac
ity and magical connotations—and on the same
 vessel he seems to be associated with a bull. This
 latter link reappears on a stone relief from Reims.
 Cernunnos is also depicted in association with
 snakes, sometimes bearing rams’ horns, as on a
 stone relief found at Cirencester in England. His
 legs may be replaced by snakes, and at Sommere
court [Haute Marne] a relief was found depicting
 the god in company with an unnamed goddess
 holding a basket and feeding a snake. The snake
 symbolism is generally associated with rejuvena
tion. Other reliefs show him holding purses of
 money.
 Cghene
 Creator god. Isoko [southern Nigeria, West
 Africa]. An abstract being who is embodied by a
 mediator in the form of a sacred wooden totem,
 the Oyise. The god has no temples or priests.
 Chac
 Rain god(s). Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. Not part of the hierarchy of
 Mayan gods, but worshiped with great devotion
 at local level. Originally there was a god, Chaac,
 who was of huge size and who taught mankind
 agriculture. He was regarded as the god of thun
der, lightning, rain and bread, and of milpas
 (smallholdings) and their produce. Also God B.
 Later, four leading Chacs become recognized,
 each with different colors and directions. They
 are known popularly as the Ah Hoyaob (sprin
klers or urinators), since the rain falls from
 between their legs. They are regarded as musi
cians and their sacred animals are frogs and tor
toises. Attributes include a long pendulous nose,
 a scroll beneath the eye and a thin, ribbon-like
 object projecting from a corner of the mouth,
 which may be toothless. They may also hold
 burning torches, symbolizing their power to
 withhold as well as dispense rain. 
See also TLALOC.
 Chac Uayab Xoc
 Fish god. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. Known as the “great demon shark,”
 he feeds on the bodies of drowned fishermen, but
 also provides catches.
 Chaitanya
 Mendicant god. Hindu (Puranic). A deified 
mortal who became one of the many incarnations
 of the god VISˇNU. Born at Nadiya in AD 1484, he
 died at Puri in 1527. Chaitanya was a sickly child
 who, according to legend, was left to his fate,
 hanging in a tree to die, but was revived by the
 gods and thus became deified. He was married
 twice before adopting a strict ascetic existence at
 the age of twenty-four, from which time he trav
eled extensively, eventually settling in the holy
 city of Benares. He is remembered as a great
 social reformer. His main sanctuary at Nadiya
 includes a small statue of KRSNA to whom he
 devoted himself.
 Chalchiuhtlatonal (jade glowing)
 God of water. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively classed as
 the Tlaloc complex, generally concerned with
 rain, agriculture and fertility.
 CHALCHIUHTLICUE (her skirt is of
 jade)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Water goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to 
AD 1500 but probably much earlier. 
SYNONYMS none.
Chang Hs’ien 63
 CENTER(S) OF CULT worshiped widely but chiefly
 at Teotihuacan.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures, murals, codex
 illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 Featuring strongly in creation mythology,
 Chalchiuhtlicue presided over the fourth of the
 world ages which terminated in a great deluge.
 She is the tutelary deity of the fourth of the thir
teen heavens identified at the time of the Spanish
 conquest, Ilhuicatl Citlalicue (the heaven of the
 star-skirted goddess). She takes the role of a veg
etation goddess responsible for the flowering and
 fruiting of the green world, particularly maize; she
 also takes responsibility for such natural phenom
ena as whirlpools. The consort of the rain god
 TLALOCand one of the group classed as the Tlaloc
 complex, she is particularly invoked as a guardian
 goddess of young women and is responsible for
 unpredictable events. A huge statue, three meters
 high, was discovered at Teotihuacan, and a larger,
 unfinished statue, allegedly of the goddess and
 weighing approximately 200 tons (now in Mexico
 City), was found on the slopes of the Tlaloc
 mountain. Attributes include a rattle on a baton,
 and her dress is adorned with waterlilies.
 Chalchiutonatiuh Aztec. See ATL.
 Chalchiutotolin (jade turkey)
 God of penitence. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively classed as
 the TEZCATLIPOCA complex.
 Chalmecacihuilt (chalman lady)
 Minor chthonic underworld goddess. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 deities collectively classed as the MICTLANTE
CUHTLI complex.
 Chalmecatl
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the deities 
collectively classed as the MICTLANTECUHTLI
 complex.
 Chamer
 God of death. Mayan (Chorti, classical Mesoamer
ican) [eastern Guatemala]. Appears as a skeleton
 dressed in white. His consort is Xtabai. Attributes
 include a scythe with a bone blade, probably copied
 from the traditions of Christian immigrants.
 Chang Fei
 God of war. Chinese. The counterpart of the god
 KUAN TI and often linked iconographically with
 him and the god LIU PEI, Chang Fei rules over
 the dark half of the year—autumn and winter.
 Like the seasons he represents he is character
ized by drunkenness and wildness. According to
 tradition he was wounded by his subordinates
 while in a drunken stupor. He is depicted with a
 black face, a bushy beard and wild staring eyes
 giving him a ferocious appearance.
 Chang Hs’ien
 Guardian god of children. Chinese. According to
 tradition he was the mortal king of Szechuan
 killed by the founder of the Sung dynasty. His
 wife was captured and forced to become a concu
bine in the imperial palace. She was discovered by
 the emperor kneeling before a picture of her
 deceased husband which she identified as a local
 deity, “the immortal Chang who gives children.”
 This triggered the cult which began locally in
 Szechuan circa AD 100. Chang Hs’ien is depicted
 holding a bow made of mulberry wood and either
 aiming an arrow at the star Tien Kou, the so
called celestial dog which threatens the earth, or
 aiming the empty bow at a rat (see ERH LANG).
64 Chang Tao Ling
 Charis
 Chang Tao Ling
 God of the afterlife. Taoist (Chinese). The head
 of the heavenly Ministry of Exorcism, and
 allegedly the first head of the Taoist church. By
 tradition he vanquished the five poisonous ani
mals—the centipede, scorpion, snake, spider and
 toad—placing their venom in a flask in which he
 concocted the elixir of life. Having drunk the
 contents at the age of 123, he ascended to
 heaven. He is depicted riding upon a tiger and
 brandishing a sword. Before the communist
 takeover of China, the gods of exorcism lived in
 a sanctuary on the Dragon Tiger mountain in
 Kiangsi province. Exorcised spirits were trapped
 in jars which were stored in the cellars.
 Chantico (in the house)
 Hearth goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A household guardian deity personi
fied by hearth fires. One of the deities collectively
 classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Chaob (carrying off)
 Wind god(s). Mayan (Lacandon, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. They live in the 
four cardinal directions and, according to 
tradition, will bring about the end of the 
current world with earthquakes and tempests
 when the last of the Lacandon people dies.
 They will blow so hard that they blast the 
monkeys out of the trees. The names of two 
are identified, Hunaunic in the east and
 Chikinkuh in the West.
 Chaos
 Primordial deity. Greco-Roman. The amorphous
 male power who, with the female presence, NYX,
 personifies the empty space which existed before
 the formation of the cosmos.
 Minor goddess. Greek. The consort of HEPHAIS
TOS. Later the name becomes more familiar as the
 GRATIAE or Graces (Aglaia, Euphrosine and
 Thalea) who then become the Charites in the
 Roman pantheon.
 Chattrosnisa (with an umbrella)
 God. Buddhist. One of eight USNISA deities appar
ently connected with the guardian sky deities or
 dikpalas. Color: white. Attribute: parasol.
 Chaya (shadow)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The reflec
tion of the goddess SANJNA, consort of SURYA and
 mother of the astral deity SANI.
 Chemosh See KEMOS.
 Chi Sung Tzu
 Rain god. Chinese.
 Chibirias
 Chthonic earth goddess. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The consort of the cre
ator god ITZAM NA and the mother of the
 BACABS. She sends the rain for Itzam Na and, as
 an iguana, is said to have flooded the world in a
 previous cycle. She also paints the earth, the
 leaves of certain plants and the crest of the wood
pecker red with her paintbrush. She invented the
 art of weaving and is the patroness of weavers.
 Attributes include a hank of cotton or cloth. Also
 IX CHEBEL YAX; Ix Hun Tah Dz’ib (lady unique
 owner of the paintbrush); Ix Hun Tah Nok (lady
 unique owner of the cloth); IX ZACAL NOK (lady
 cloth-weaver).
Chiccan
 Chu Jung 65
 Chiconahui Itzcuintli-Chantico
 Rain gods. Mayan (Chorti, classical Mesoameri
can) [eastern Guatemala]. Giant reptilian deities
 whose blood is cold and who evolved from
 snakes. They form a quartet, each living at the
 bottom of a deep lake situated in the four cardi
nal directions. They are believed to churn the
 waters which rise as clouds. The AH PATNAR
 UINICOB gods then beat the rain from the clouds
 with stone axes.
 Chicomecohuatl
 Maize goddess. Aztec and postclassical Meso
american. [Mexico]. Her festival was held in Sep
tember when a young girl was sacrificed having
 taken on the role of the deity for a period of time
 during the celebrations. She was decapitated on a
 heap of maize fruits and her blood was collected
 in a large bowl before being poured over a
 wooden figurine of the goddess. Finally the vic
tim’s skin was flayed off and worn by a dancing
 priest. 
See also XILONEN.
 Chicomexochitl
 God of painters. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Also described as a god of solar pleasure.
 Chiconahui
 Hearth goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A household guardian deity personi
fied by hearth fires. One of the deities collectively
 classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Chiconahuiehecatl
 Minor creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively
 classed as the QUETZALCOATL complex.
 God of lapidiaries. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico].
 Chikara
 Sky god. Korekore (Shona-speaking) [northern
 Zimbabwe, southern Africa]. He has a son,
 NOSENGA.
 Chinnamastaka (decapitated)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A headless
 form of DURGA. Also one of a group of ten
 MAHAVIDYAS, goddesses of great knowledge 
personifying the SAKTI of S ˇIVA. She may be
 depicted holding her head in her hands. Aspects
 include VIRARATRI. Attributes: scimitar, skull.
 Also Chinnamasta.
 Chiuke
 Sky god. Ibo [Nigeria, West Africa]. Regarded as
 a creator god.
 Chors
 Sun god. Pre-Christian Slav [Balkans]. Identified
 from the Nestor Chronicle. Attributes include
 horns and a canine head.
 Chos-Skyon (protector)
 Tutelary guardian deity. Buddhist-Lamaist
 [Tibet]. One of a group of gods of fearsome
 appearance who wear royal apparel. Rides a
 white elephant. Color: blue. Attributes: knife and
 noose.
 Chu Jung
 God of fire. Chinese. Also the heavenly executioner.
66 Chul Tatic Chites Vaneg
 SYNONYMS none.
 Chul Tatic Chites Vaneg (holy father, 
creator of man)
 Creator god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Thought to be the Mayan name of the
 Christian god.
 Chung K’uei
 God of the afterlife. Taoist (Chinese). He belongs
 to the heavenly “ministry of exorcism” and,
 though not the most senior (he is subservient to
 CHANGTAOLING), is probably the most popular
 within the category. He was originally a mortal
 working as a physician in the eighth century AD.
 He is depicted with a fearsome face, said to be so
 terrible that it can drive away any demonic spirit
 who dares to oppose him. He is engaged in com
bat using a sword and a fan on which is written a
 magical formula to ward off evil. Symbolic
 peaches are suspended from his hat and a bat cir
cles his head representing happiness.
 Cihuacoatl-Quilaztli
 Creator goddess. Aztec (classical Mesomerican)
 [Mexico]. Using a magical vessel, she grinds bone
 fragments obtained from previous generations of
 mankind in earlier world ages into a powder. The
 gods then commit self-sacrifice, allowing their
 blood to drip into the vessel. From the resulting
 mix, the human race of the fifth sun is formed.
 Cinxia
 Minor goddess of marriage. Roman. Concerned
 with the proper dress of the bride.
 CIPACTLI (great earth mother)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Primordial goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 until
 AD 1500, but probably much earlier. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES codex illustrations, stone
 carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices. 
Not strictly a goddess, but significant enough in
 Aztec cosmogony to be included here. According to
 tradition she was created in the form of a huge alli
gator-like monster by the underworld deities
 MICTLANTECUHLTI and MICTECACIHUATL. She
 may equate with TLALTECUHTLI, the toad-like
 earth monster torn apart to form heaven and earth.
 According to one tradition she emerged from the
 primordial waters and engaged in a fierce struggle
 with the sun god TEZCATLIPOCA during which he
 tore off her lower jaw to prevent her sinking back
 into the depths and she bit off his right foot. The
 mountains are said to be the scaly ridges of her skin.
 Cipactonal
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively classed as
 the OMETEOTL complex.
 Cit Chac Coh
 God of war. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Identified as a red puma.
 Citlalatonac (glowing star)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively classed 
as the OMETEOTL complex. His consort is 
CITLALICUE. Between them they created the stars
 of the night sky.
 Citlalicue (her skirt is a star)
 Creator goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the deities collectively classed as
 the Ometeotl complex. Her consort is Citlala
COATLICUE 67
 tonac. Between them they created the stars of the
 night sky.
 Citra (bright)
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Hindu (epic and
 Puranic). A malevolent NAKSATRA or astral deity;
 daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Citrasena (having a bright spear)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). The SAKTI of
 BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Cittavasita (control of thinking)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spir
itual regeneration. Color: white. Attribute: staff.
 Cizin (stench)
 God of death. Mayan (Yucatec and other tribes,
 classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The most
 important death god in the Mayan cultural area.
 Said to live in Metnal, the Yucatec place of death,
 and to burn the souls of the dead. He first burns the
 mouth and anus and, when the soul complains,
 douses it with water. When the soul complains of
 this treatment, he burns it again until there is noth
ing left. It then goes to the god Sicunyum who spits
 on his hands and cleanses it, after which it is free to
 go where it chooses. Attributes of Cizin include a
 fleshless nose and lower jaw, or the entire head may
 be depicted as a skull. Spine and ribs are often
 showing. He wears a collar with death eyes between
 lines of hair and a long bone hangs from one ear
lobe. His body is painted with black and particularly
 yellow spots (the Mayan color of death).
 Clementia
 Minor goddess. Roman. Generally invoked to
 protect the common man against the emperor’s
 absolute use of power. Under Hadrian the term
 clementia temporum (mildness of the times) came
 into common usage.
 COATLICUE (the serpent-skirted goddess)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to AD
 1500 and probably much earlier.
 SYNONYMS Coatlicue-Chimalman (Valley of
 Mexico).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tenochtitlan.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures, murals, codex
 illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 The creator goddess of the earth and mankind
 and the female aspect of OMETEOTL. One of the
 group classed as the TETEOINNAN complex. She
 has 400 sons, the stars of the southern sky, and is
 the mother of the goddess COYOLXAUHQUI.
 Later, as a widow, she was impregnated by a ball
 of feathers as she was sweeping the “serpent
 mountain” of Coatepec near Tula. Her other chil
dren decapitated her as punishment for her dis
honor, but she gave birth to the sun god
 HUITZILOPOCHTLI who subsequently slew Coy
olxauhqui and her brothers, thus banishing night
 for day. The Great Temple at Tenochtitlan com
memorates this primordial battle.
 Coatlicue is known iconographically from a
 colossal headless statue dated to the late Aztec
 period, circa AD 1300, which stands in Mexico
 City. The hands and feet are clawed and the fig
ure bears a necklace of human hands and hearts
 with a skull pendant. A skirt is formed from
 snakes and two snakes arising from the neck
 meet to form a face. Down her back hang thir
teen leather cords festooned with snails. Accord
ing to tradition Coatlicue feeds off human
 corpses. She is also recognized as the patron
 deity of florists.
68 Coca-Mama
 Colop U Uichkin (tears out the eye of the sun)
 Coca-Mama
 Goddess of the coca plant. South American
 Indian [Peru]. Minor goddess who oversees the
 harvest of the coca crop. Models of the deity were
 made from the leaves of the plant and kept for a
 year before being burned in a ritual to ensure a
 good coca harvest.
 Cocidius
 Hunting goddess. Celtic (British). Northern
 British deity depicted in stone relief at Rising
ham (Yorkshire).
 Cocijo
 Rain god. Zapotec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Known to have been worshiped by the
 Monte Alban culture of Zapotec-speaking peo
ples in the Valley of Oaxaca.
 Co(co)chimetl (soporific)
 Minor god of merchants and commerce. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 deities collectively classed as the YACATECUHTLI
 complex.
 Col (black one)
 Rain god. Nuer [Sudan]. He brings rain 
and thunderstorms. Souls of people killed by
 lightning have been described as colwic. Also
 Chol.
 Colel Cab (mistress of the earth)
 Chthonic earth goddess. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. This may be another
 title for the IX ZACAL NOK aspect of the goddess
 CHIBIRIAS.
 Sky god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Said to live in the midst of the sky, but with
 a night avatara of the same name who lives in the
 underworld land of the dead, Metnal, and who is
 the bringer of disease.
 Condatis
 River god. Celtic (British). Northern British deity
 with stone votive inscriptions located in County
 Durham.
 Contrebis
 Local god. Romano-Celtic (British). Identified
 from an inscription at Lancaster in conjunction
 with another deity, IALONUS.
 Corus
 God of wind. Roman. Specifically the deity
 responsible for the northwest winds.
 COVENTINA
 ORIGIN Romano-Celtic (British). Tutelary and
 water goddess of uncertain affinities.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 200 BC until
 AD 500 or later.
 SYNONYMS none known.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT sacred spring near the
 Roman fort of Brocolitia [Carrawburgh] on
 Hadrian’s Wall.
 ART REFERENCES monumental carvings and bas
 reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES monumental inscriptions.
 Little is known of Coventina other than that 
she was a purely local British goddess of some
Cybele 69
 importance. She is best observed from the period
 of the Roman occupation, at which time she
 shows a classical influence but is clearly Celtic in
 origin. On one bas relief found at Carrawburgh
 her name is associated with three nymphs hold
ing vessels with issuing streams of water; on
 another she is pictured as a water nymph on a
 leaf, pouring water from a vessel. Her Carraw
burgh sanctuary, which followed a simple,
 unroofed design similar to that of a small
 Romano-Celtic temple, was sited beside a well
 fed by a sacred spring and was associated with the
 Roman fort of Brocolitia. The well attests to a
 cult involving a ritual shaft and water, into which
 more than 13,000 Roman coins had been thrown
 dating to the reign of Gratian (AD 407), indicat
ing Coventina’s long-standing popularity.
 Incense-burners to “Coventina Augusta” have
 been discovered from the late period.
 In addition to money, pearls and pins were
 thrown into the well as votive offerings, the pins
 possibly implying a role in childbirth. Models of
 a dog (linked to the Greco-Roman physician Aes
culapius) and a horse (a distinct fertility symbol)
 had also been deposited. Less significant and
 probably dumped when the temple was dese
crated by Christians were a skull, altars and other
 carved stones. There is no evidence of connection
 with a severed head cult.
 Coyolxauhqui (golden bells)
 Astral goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A deification and incarnation (avatara)
 of the moon. According to tradition she is the
 half-sister of the sun god HUITZILOPOCHTLI. The
 god sprang, fully armed, from his decapitated
 mother, COATLICUE, and engaged all his enemies
 who, by inference, are the 400 astral gods, his
 half-brothers. He slew his sister and hurled her
 from the top of a mountain. Alternative tradition
 suggests his sister was an ally whom he was unable
 to save, so he decapitated her and threw her head
 into the sky, where she became the moon. She was
 represented in the Great Temple at Tenochtitlan,
 where she was depicted in front of successive
 Huitzilopochtli pyramids. She is also a hearth
 deity within the group classed as the XIUHTE
CUHTLI complex.
 Cratos
 God of strength. Greek. See KRATOS.
 Cum Hau
 Chthonic god of death. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of several names
 for a death god listed in the codices.
 Cunda
 Goddess. Buddhist [eastern Bengal and Tibet].
 An emanation of Vajrasattva or Vairocana. A
 female BODHISATTVA or buddha-designate. Also
 seen separately as a deification of literature, one
 of a group of twelve DHARANIS. She may stand
 upon a man. Color: white or green. Very large
 variety of attributes. Also Aryacunda.
 Cunina
 Minor goddess of infants. Roman. Responsible
 for guarding the cradle.
 Cupid See AMOR.
 Cybele
 Mother goddess. Romanized name. 
See also KYBELE.
6
 D
 Dabog
 Sun god. Slav [Balkans and southern Russia].
 References found in inscriptions from Kiev. After
 Christianization he was reduced to a diabolic
 personality.
 Dadimunda
 Tutelary god. Singhalese Buddhist [Sri Lanka].
 An attendant on the god UPULVAN to whom he
 acted as treasurer. The guardian of Buddhism in
 Sri Lanka. His sacred animal is an elephant. Also
 Devata bandara.
 Dagan (1)
 Grain and fertility god. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian). Generally linked with ANU in
 giving status to cities e.g. the dedications by the
 ninth-century BC Assyrian king Assur-nasir-apli
 at Kalakh. Cult centers existed at Tuttul and
 Terqa.
 Dagan (2)
 Grain and fertility god. Western Semitic
 (Canaanite and Phoenician). The father of BAAL
 in Ugaritic creation epics. A major sanctuary was
 built in his honor at Mari [Syria] and he was rec
ognized in parts of Mesopotamia where he
 acquired the consort S ˇalasˇ. Worshiped mainly at
 Gaza and Asˇdod, but also the supreme god of the
 Philistines. Known in biblical references as
 Dagon (Judges 16.23). Mentioned in the apoc
ryphal Book of Maccabees. The cult is thought to
 have continued until circa 150 BC. Israelite
 misinterpretation of the Ugaritic root Dagan led
 to the assumption that he was a fish god, therefore
 attributes include a fish tail.
 Dagan (3)
 Local supreme god. Kafir [Afghanistan]. This god
 bears no relation to the Semitic god Dagan, but
 is known by several synonyms including Dagon,
 Doghan and Deogan. He has been identified in
 several villages in the south of the Kafir region
 [southern Nuristan]. “Dagan” may be less a
 proper name than a title of respect.
 DAGDA (the good god)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Father of the tribe.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 times until after Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Ruad ro-fhessa (lord of perfect know
ledge); Eochaid Ollathair (all-father).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tara, etc.
 70
Damkina 71
 ART REFERENCES possibly various stone carvings,
 Romano-Celtic and earlier.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings.
 The Dagda is a strictly Irish tribal god not found
 among the Continental Celts. He is regarded in
 a general sense as the protector and benefactor of
 the people, not “good” in a moral sense but in a
 practical fashion—“good at anything.” A father
 figure who led the deities of Ireland against the
 Fir Bolg in the First Battle of Moytura (see
 TUATHADEDANANN). He has no exclusive roles,
 but in mythology enters a ritualized union with
 fertility goddesses including MORRIGAN and
 BOANN. He is the father of BRIGIT and of AENGUS
 Mac Oc (young god). Dagda is represented in lit
erature as possessing immense strength and a
 prodigious appetite (see also THOR). Drawn by
 Christian writers as a boorish and grotesque char
acter, which may be inaccurate, his weapon is a
 huge club which can slay nine men at a stroke
 and which was once drawn on a ceremonial cart.
 He owns a bronze “caldron of abundance” with
 magical properties of wisdom and rejuvenation,
 symbol of Irish prosperity. The Dagda may 
be the subject of a vast naked figure armed with 
a club cut in chalk at Cerne Abbas in Dorset,
 England, and probably created during the
 Romano-Celtic period.
 Dagon See DAGAN(2).
 Daikoku
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven gods
 of fortune in Shintoism and often linked with
 the god EBISU. Originally a god of kitchens, he
 became a deity concerned with happiness. He is
 depicted as a fat, well-to-do figure seated on
 two rice bales and carrying a sack on his back.
 He also holds a hammer in his right hand. In
 depictions there is often a mouse nibbling at
 one of the rice bales. Small gold icons of the god
 may be carried as talismans of wealth. Accord
ing to tradition, when Daikoku’s hammer is
 shaken, money falls out in great profusion. In
 western Japan he is also syncretized with the
 god of rice paddies, TA-NO-KAMI, and thus
 becomes the god of agriculture and farmers. He
 may have developed from the Buddhist god
 MAHAKALA.
 Daksa (skilled and able)
 Sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). The son of
 BRAHMA and ADITI, he is an ADITYA and demi
urge. His consort is PRASUTI, and he is said to
 have had up to sixty daughters. He appears in
 conflict with his son-in-law S ˇIVA as the main
 offender against S ˇiva’s consort SATI (accounted as
 one of his daughters), who was so insulted by
 Daksa that she committed suicide by jumping
 into a ritual fire. S ˇiva took revenge by decapitat
ing Daksa but later, after intercession from other
 gods, Brahma brought him back to life, giving
 him the substitute head of a sacrificial goat.
 Attribute: head of a goat. Also PRAJAPATI.
 Damgalnuna
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). She first appears as a con
sort of ENLIL and, as Mesopotamian traditions
 progress, becomes associated with EA and the
 mother of the Babylonian god MARDUK. Also
 DAMKINA (Akkadian).
 Damkina
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 Consort of Ea. 
See also DAMGALNUNA.
72 Danaparamita
 Danaparamita
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. One of twelve
 PARAMITA deities and a spiritual offspring of RAT
NASAMBHAVA. Color: reddish white. Attributes: an
 ear of rice and a banner with pearl.
 DANU (1)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Founding goddess. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until after Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS ANU; DON (Welsh).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES none known.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings; History of Races etc; Mabinogion (Welsh).
 Danu is the leader and progenitress of the Irish
 pantheon, the TUATHA DE DANANN. Otherwise
 she is a remote and barely defined figure. She
 equates closely with the Welsh goddess Don and
 may have been perceived originally as a fertility
 and vegetation spirit.
 Danu (2)
 Primordial goddess. Hindu (Vedic). The word
 Danu is used to describe the primeval waters and
 this deity is probably their embodiment. She is
 known as the mother of the demonic personality
 VRTRA, who engages in combat with, and is
 defeated by, the rain god INDRA. In later Hin
duism she is perceived as a daughter of DAKSA
 and the consort of KASYAPA.
 Daphne
 Oracular goddess. Greek. A number of oracular
 shrines were dedicated to her in various places in
 Asia Minor, including Antiocheia, Mopsuestia
 (Cilicia), Sura and Patara (Lycia), Telmessos
 (Caria). Represented by the laurel Daphne she is
 linked with the Daphnephoria festivals honoring
 APOLLO. Tradition has it that she was changed into
 the laurel to avoid sexual submission to the god.
 Daramulum
 Creator god. Australian aboriginal. Otherwise
 known as Gayandi he is the son of BAIAME and
 BIRRAHGNOOLOOand is worshiped principally by
 the Wiradyuri and Kamilaroi groups of aborig
ines in the southeast of Australia, who regard him
 as an intermediary between his father, the
 supreme being, and the human race. To an extent
 this role may have developed through Christian
 missionary influence.
 Darawigal
 Personification of evil. Australian aboriginal. This
 demonic deity stands opposed to BAIAME, the cre
ator spirit who represents good in the world. He
 is generally recognized as an offspring of Baiame
 who once lived in the sky but fell from grace 
during the Dreamtime and was sent to the under
world as its ruler. From there he now dispenses
 death and sickness.
 Datin
 God. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian. Frequently
 mentioned in inscriptions, but of uncertain 
function.
 Daya (compassion)
 Goddess. Hindu (Puranic) A SAKTI of Acyuta
 (never falling), a minor aspect of the god VIS ˇNU.
 Decima
 Goddess of birth. Roman. Generally linked with
 the goddess NONA, she is responsible for watching
Dena 73
 over the critical months of gestation. In later
 times the two were joined by the goddess of
 death, MORTA, to form of trio of fate goddesses,
 the PARCAE.
 Dedwen
 God of riches and incense. Nubian. Virtually
 unknown Egyptianized deity to whom sanctuar
ies were dedicated by Tuthmosis III and who may
 have brought gifts from southern regions. 
Usually found in anthropomorphic form but
 occasionally depicted as a lion. Also Dedun.
 DEMETER (mother)
 ORIGIN Greek. Vegetation and mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from circa 800 BC
 but probably earlier until Christianization
 (circa AD 400). 
SYNONYMS Damater (Dorian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Greek world
 including Agrigentum, Cnidos, Priene, Gela,
 Siris and Lokroi. Particularly at Eleusis.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures; terracottas
 showing votary priestesses holding piglets.
 LITERARY SOURCES Hymn to Demeter and
 Theogony (Hesiod).
 Demeter displays a complex personality which
 may be the result of syncretization in prehis
toric times between a goddess of the corn and
 one of the underworld. By Homeric times
 Demeter was a goddess of vegetation and death.
 In ancient Athens the dead were titled deme
treioi and corn was traditionally scattered on
 new graves. Demeter undergoes a yearly con
flict with HADES and a search for her lost
 daughter, or arguably her alter ego, since the
 personality of the missing maiden goddess
 PERSEPHONE or KORE (girl) is virtually inextri
cable from that of Demeter. 
The legends of Demeter and Persephone
 account for seasons of dearth and growth in the
 fields. Persephone, daughter of Demeter and
 ZEUS, gathers flowers in a meadow surrounded
 by attendant OKEANIDES. As she picks one par
ticular bloom the earth opens and the under
world god, Hades, abducts her. Demeter
 searches the world for her daughter and neg
lects its prosperity in so doing. The gods, seeing
 that catastrophe beckons, intervene and HER
MES is sent to fetch the girl. There are condi
tions attached to her release, however, because
 she has tasted the pomegranate of Hades and is
 thus bound to the underworld. She may only
 enter the air above for nine months of the year.
 For the remaining three she must return and
 live as mistress of Hades.
 One of the most reasonable interpretations of
 the legend is that the three months when Perse
phone or Kore is in absence represent the three
 dry summer months when vegetation in the
 Mediterranean region shrivels away and when
 traditionally the grain was stored in underground
 silos. When the rains come in autumn the youth
ful aspect of Demeter returns. There are strong
 parallels with Mesopotamian and Hittite-Hur
rian legend (see INANA and DUMUZI; HEBAT and
 TELEPINU).
 The Demeter cult was practiced in many
 places, often with a high degree of secrecy and
 with initiation rituals. Arguably the most famous
 cult center is Eleusis, where the legends provided
 a stimulus for the Eleusinian Mysteries. There also
 took place a women’s festival of Thesmophoria,
 when pigs were buried alive in pits or megara.
 The sacrifice of young virgins to Demeter is
 reported but unsubstantiated.
 Dena
 Goddess. Persian [Iran]. The daughter of the god
 of light AHURA MAZDA.
74 Deng
 Devananda (delight of the gods)
 Deng
 Sky god. Nuer and Dinka [Sudan]. Considered to
 be a foreign deity in the Nuer pantheon and a
 bringer of disease. His daughter is the moon god
dess. In Dinka religion he is a storm and fertility
 god bringing lightning and rain.
 Dercetius
 Mountain god. Romano-Iberian.
 Derceto
 Mother goddess. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Derived from the Syrian model of ATARGATIS and
 worshiped locally.
 Deva (the god)
 Generic name of a god. Hindu (Vedic and
 Puranic). Originally, in the Rg Veda, thirty or
 thirty-three devas are indicated, divided into
 three groups of eleven. In later Hinduism, the
 term deva is generally applied to deities not
 included in the chief triad of BRAHMA, VISˇNU
 and S ˇIVA.
 Devaki (divine)
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 Daughter of Devaka and consort of the mythical
 king VASUDEVA, Devaki bore eight sons, includ
ing KRSNA and BALARAMA. Her brother Kamsa
 believed that the eighth child would kill him and
 he slaughtered the first six sons. In order to save
 the remaining two, VISˇNU implanted the “seed”
 of his avataras in Devaki’s womb (in the form of
 hairs from his head), before transferring
 Balarama to the womb of the goddess ROHINI
 and Krsna to Yasoda, the wife of a cowherd,
 Nanda.
 Goddess. Jain [India]. The mother of Mahavira.
 Devapurohita
 Astral god. Hindu (Puranic). An epithet for the
 planet god JUPITER.
 Devasena (heavenly host)
 Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). One of the consorts of
 SKANDA who normally stands to his left.
 Attribute: lotus in the left hand.
 Deverra
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. A guardian of
 newborn children. Symbolized by a broom used
 to sweep away evil influences.
 Devi (the goddess)
 Goddess epitomizing the active female principle.
 Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Devi evolved as a major
 goddess out of the older notion of mother and veg
etation goddesses. She is seen more as an abstract
 principle who will nevertheless respond directly to
 worshipers’ prayers. By the fifth century AD she
 appears in many forms as the active (feminine)
 aspect or power of male deities. General attributes:
 conch, hook, noose, prayer wheel and trident. Devi
 is also the generic name given to a female deity, in
 her capacity as the consort of a god or DEVA. 
See also SRI(DEVI), BHUMIDEVI.
 Dhanada
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of the ema
nations of the DHYANIBUDDHA AMOGHASIDDHI, also
 a form of the goddess TARA. She sits upon a moon
 throne with an unnamed animal in attendance.
Dharmadhatuvagisvara 75
 Color: green. Attributes: book, blue lotus, image
 of Amoghasiddhi, noose and rosary.
 Dhanistha (very rich)
 Minor goddess of misfortune. Hindu (Puranic).
 A malevolent NAKSATRA or astral deity; daughter
 of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Also
 SRAVISTHA.
 Dhanvantari (traveling through an arc)
 Sun god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic). In later
 tradition a minor incarnation or avatara of the
 god VISˇNU, also closely associated with medicine.
 In Vedic mythology Dhanvantari carried the
 ambrosia created from the primeval ocean of milk.
 He brought medical science to mankind. Only as
 the religion evolved did he become identified as
 an avatara. As KANTATMAN (PRADYUMNA), he is
 thought to be Kama reincarnated after his death at
 the hands of S ˇIVA. Various other epithets and exis
tences are attributed to this deity. Offerings are
 due to him at dusk in the northeastern quarter. He
 is the guardian deity of hospitals which are usually
 in the vicinity of a sanctuary of Visˇnu. Attributes:
 two bowls containing ambrosia. Also Kantatman.
 Dhara (supporting)
 Attendant god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group
 of eight VASU deities answering to the god INDRA.
 Attributes: lotus, plough, rosary and spear.
 Dharani (earth)
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Consort
 of PARASURAMA and an avatara of the goddess
 LAKSMI.
 2. Collective name for a group of deities. Bud
dhist. Twelve personifications of a particular kind
 of short mystical religious text used as a charm.
 Also dharini.
 DHARMA (justice)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India].
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 300 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Dharme. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific. 
ART REFERENCES stone and metal sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES epic texts including
 Ramayana and Mahabharata; Puranic texts, but
 also see the Rg Veda.
 The god of law who originates as a creator god
 and one of the sons of Brahma, but almost cer
tainly derives from the dharmas or archetypal pat
terns of society identified in the Rg Veda.
 According to tradition he is the consort of thir
teen daughters of DAKSA and the father of Yud
histhra. Also regarded as a minor avatara of
 VISˇNU, appearing as a bull standing for the
 redemption of souls.
 In Bengali tradition Dharme (probably of the
 same derivation) has been annually engaged in a
 sacred marriage to the earth at the time of year
 when a tree known as the sal is blossoming. Birds
 are sacrificed in a sacred grove after which the
 tribe repairs to the hut of the village shaman and
 the marriage is enacted between the priest and his
 wife, followed by a sexual free-for-all.
 Dharmadhatuvagisvara
 God of the law. Buddhist. A variety of MANJUSRI
 and therefore an emanation of AMITABHA. Color:
 reddish-white. Attributes: arrow, bell, book, 
bow, hook, image of Amitabha on crown, staff,
 sword and water jar. Depicted with four heads
 and setting the law wheel in motion.
76 Dharmakirtisagaraghosa
 Dhatar (creator)
 Dharmakirtisagaraghosa (sound of the
 ocean of the glory of the law)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among one of a series of medicine 
buddhas known as a SMAN-BLA in Lamaism. Typ
ically depicted with stretched earlobes. Color: red.
 Dharmamegha (cloud of the law)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of
 twelve deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: blue. Attributes: book and staff.
 Dharmapala
 Collective name for a group of eight tutelary
 deities. Buddhist and particularly Lamaist [Tibet].
 They wear royal apparel but are of terrible appear
ance and are considered to be the guardians of the
 law. General attributes: ax, cup, knife and snake.
 Dharmapratisamvit (analysis of nature)
 Goddess of nature analysis. Buddhist (Vajrayana).
 One of a group of four PRATISAMVITS. Color:
 whitish-red. Attributes: noose and staff with crook.
 Dharmavasita (control of law)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS personifying the disciplines of
 spiritual regeneration. Color: white. Attributes:
 water jar on a red lotus.
 Dharti Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Puranic). A deity who
 appears late in Hinduism and equates with
 PRTHIVI or BHUMIDEVI. According to some
 authors she is the consort of THAKUR DEO. Also
 Dhartri Mai, Darti Awwal.
 Sun god. Hindu (Puranic). An original Vedic list
 of six descendants of the goddess ADITI or
 Adityas, all of whom take the role of sun gods
 was, in later times, enlarged to twelve, including
 Dhatar. Color: golden. Attributes: two lotuses,
 lotus rosary and waterjar. Also Dhatr.
 Dhisana
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Hindu (Vedic).
 Associated with the acquisition of wealth. Also
 the name given to a bowl of fermented drink 
or soma.
 Dhrtarastra (his empire is firm)
 Minor god. Buddhist. One of the dikpalas or
 guardians of the easterly direction. Color: white.
 Attribute: lute.
 Dhrti (firmness)
 Goddess. Jain [India]. A minor deity with no sig
nificant role or attributes.
 Dhruva (immovable)
 Astral god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The son of
 Uttanapada, a star in the constellation of Ursa
 Minor which was the pole star in the last millen
nium BC. An avatara of VISˇNU. Also one of a
 group of Vasu deities answering to the god INDRA.
 In different context, the description of a kind of
 fixed icon. Attributes: prayer wheel, rosary, spear
 and water jar.
 Dhumavati (smoky)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of a
 group of ten MAHAVIDYAS personifying the
 SAKTI of S ˇIVA. Aspects include Darunaratri
DIANCECHT 77
 (night of frustration), who is also regarded as
 one of the personifications of the goddess Sakti.
 Dhumorna (smoke)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The con
sort of YAMA. Attribute: a pomegranate.
 Dhumravati
 Terrible goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Attributes: skull
 in the hand and garland of skulls, sword and tusks.
 Dhupa (incense)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of the ASTAMATARA mothers. Color: yellow.
 Attribute: a censer.
 Dhupatara (incense-Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color:
 black. Attribute: a censer.
 Dhurjati (with matted hair)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A manifestation
 of S ˇIVA in which his body is smeared with ash.
 Dhvajagrakeyura (ring on a banner)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA. She sits on a sun throne. Color: dark
 blue, black or yellow. Attributes: club, image of
 Aksobhya, noose, pestle, prayer wheel, staff,
 sword, tiger skin and trident. Three-headed and
 three-eyed.
 Dhvajosnisa
 God. Buddhist. An USNISA deity apparently con
nected with the guardian deities or dikpalas in the
 southwestern quarter. Color: reddish-blue.
 Attributes: banner with jewel.
 Dhyanaparamita (perfection in meditation)
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. A PARAMITA and
 spiritual offspring of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color:
 darkish sky blue. Attributes: banner with jewel,
 and white lotus.
 Dhyanibuddha
 General name of a spiritual or meditation buddha.
 Buddhist (Vajrayana). An emanation of the
 ADIBUDDHA and generally regarded as one of a
 group of five representing the cosmic elements.
 The mystic counterpart of a human buddha.
 When the five are represented as a group, their
 common attribute is a staff on a lotus.
 Dhyanibuddhasakti
 Collective name for a group of goddesses. Bud
dhist. The five SAKTIS of the Dhyanibuddhas.
 Common attributes include a cup and knife.
 Diana
 Moon goddess. Roman. Living in the forests,
 she is a huntress and protector of animals, also
 the guardian of virginity. Generally modeled on
 the Greek goddess ARTEMIS, she had a sanctuary
 on the Aventine Hill in Rome and, under 
Roman rule, took over the Temple of Artemis at
 Ephesus.
 DIANCECHT
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Physician god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS none known.
78 Diang
 Digambara (naked)
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specifically known.
 ART REFERENCES monumental carvings and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of Kings.
 A god of whom limited description is given but
 who was clearly one of the more important mem
bers of the TUATHA DE DANANN band of Celtic
 deities in Ireland. Said to be the grandfather of
 LUG. He possesses the skills to make every warrior
 whole again and is referred to as having made a sil
ver arm for the god NUADU who was injured in the
 legendary Battle of Moytura and who subsequently
 took the epithet Nuadu argatlam (Nuada of the
 silver arm). Mortally wounded Tuatha were bathed
 and revived in Diancecht’s sacred well, Slane.
 Diang
 Cow goddess. Shilluk [Sudan]. Living along the
 west bank of the Nile, the Shilluk perceive Diang
 as the consort of the first human, Omara, sent by
 the creator god. Her son is Okwa, who married
 the crocodile goddess NYAKAYA. Thus the three
 main elements of Shilluk life are contained in
 their religious beginnings—men (sky), cows
 (earth) and crocodiles (water).
 Dictynna
 Mother goddess. Cretan. She became syncretized
 with the Greek goddess RHEA.
 Didi Thakrun
 Plague goddess. Hindu [northern India]. Associ
ated with cholera. Worshiped locally at Bardvan.
 Dievs
 Sky god. Pre-Christian Latvian. He is depicted in
 the guise of a gentleman farmer wearing cap and
 sword and mounted on a horse, or driving a cart.
 Tradition has it that he first set free the sun.
 Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. The SAKTI
 of Yogambara. Attribute: a bowl. 
NOTE: Digambara is also an epithet of the 
goddess KALI in Hindu religion.
 Dike
 Goddess of justice. Greek. The daughter of ZEUS.
 Depicted as a maiden whom men violently abuse in
 the streets but who is honored by the gods and who
 reports to her father on the misdeeds of mankind,
 causing divine retribution. She is depicted on the
 Kypselos chest as an attractive woman strangling an
 ugly goddess of injustice, ADIKIA.
 Dikkumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHAVANAVASI (dwelling in places).
 They have youthful appearance and are associated
 with rain and thunder.
 Diksa (initiation)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The con
sort of Ugra and mother of SANTANA. Also the
 name of the Buddhist Tantric initiation ceremony.
 DIONYSOS
 ORIGIN Greek. God of wine and intoxication.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP from circa 1500 BC
 and probably earlier through to Christianiza
tion circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS Deunysos; Zonnysos; LIBER, BACCHUS
 (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Pylos; Ayia Irini (Keos).
 ART REFERENCES chiefly Attic wine amphorae
 circa sixth century BC. 
LITERARY SOURCES Hymn to Dionysos (fragmen
tary—Homer); Catalogues (Hesiod).
DISANI 79
 Dionysos is a deity associated with a curious form
 of mass, intoxicated frenzy encouraged by festi
vals of wine-drinking. He has a retinue of male,
 phallic satyrs wearing animal masks and joined
 by female maenads. Although a gigantic phallus
 was carried in rituals honoring Dionysos, he is not
 a fertility god and the phallic symbolism is purely
 that of sexual arousal and carousal. Dionysos is
 the son of SEMELE and there is some argument
 that the cult originated in Phrygia or Lydia linked
 to that of KYBELE and traveled via Mycenaean
 culture with sanctuaries in such places as Pylos
 and Keos. Greek women traditionally searched
 for Dionysos and it is possible that the Roman
 name Bacchus is of Semitic origin, meaning wail
ing (see Tammuz). Other authors have suggested
 that the personality of Dionysos emerged from
 Thrace and extended to Homeric Greece but this
 argument is now out of favor. Other than in the
 opening of the Homeric epic material, Dionysos
 scarcely appears in literature.
 There was a major wine-drinking festival
 (Ionic-Attic) known as the Anthesteria, Greater
 and Lesser Dionysia festivals with strongly phallic
 connotations and the sacrifice of goats, an Agrio
nia festival (Dorian-Aeolic) and most recently the
 Athenian celebration of Katagogia which marked
 the legend of Dionysos emerging from the sea
 and during which a ship was carried or drawn on
 wheels.
 Dioskouroi
 Twin gods. Greek.
 See also POLYDEUKES.
 Dipa (personification of the oil-lamp)
 Goddess of light. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. 
Considered to be among the group of 
ASTAMATARAS (mothers). Color: blue or red.
 Attribute: a lamp.
 Dipa Tara (lamp Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color: 
yellow. Attribute: a torch.
 Dipankara (light causer)
 Deity. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a minor
 group of buddhas. Color: yellow. Attributes: none
 in particular.
 Dipti (brightness)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Puranic). No details
 available.
 Dirghadevi (long goddess)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Consort of
 the god NIRRTI.
 Dis Pater
 Chthonic underworld god. Roman. Modeled on
 the Greek god HADES.
 Disa (the ten directions of space)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Consort of
 S
 ˇIVA in his terrible aspect of BHIMA and mother of
 the minor god Sarga (creation).
 DISANI
 ORIGIN Kafir [Afghanistan—southern Hin
dukush]. Supreme fertility and mother 
goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP origins uncertain
 and still persisting in parts today.
 SYNONYMS Disni (Prasun region); Dizeile.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout the Kafir
 region, particularly at the village of Shtiwe
 (Prasun).
80 Disciplina
 ART REFERENCES large wooden sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES Robertson G.S. The Kafirs of
 the Hindukush (1896); Morgenstierne G. Some
 Kati Myths and Hymns (1951).
 Disani is the most important goddess of the
 Hindukush, particularly revered by the Prasun
 people. Legend has it that she emerged 
from the right breast of the creator god IMRA.
 Alternatively she emerged from a sacred lake
 into which a sun disc had fallen, as a golden
 tree. Other legends place her as the daughter of
 the god SUDREM, or of INDR and the goddess
 Nangi-Wutr. She is the consort of Imra and
 other major deities in the pantheon and 
therefore bears strong fertility and maternal
 connotations. She has a son, BAGISHT, con
ceived when she was raped by a demon. She also
 plays the role of huntress. Her home is said to
 be Sudrem.
 Disani is also a benign and comforting god
dess of death who carries the deceased into the
 House of the Great Mother. She is perceived in
 human form, armed with a bow and quiver, with
 streams of milk pouring from her breasts. She
 can appear as a wild goat from whose footprints
 spring the shoots of wheat, and symbolically as
 a tree (see INANA) whose roots embody the
 underworld Nirmali. Her cult centers seem to
 have been connected with the villages of Shtiwe,
 Bagramatal and Kamdesh.
 As goddess of death, Disani receives the prayers
 of women whose menfolk are about to go into
 combat. Legend has it that she lives in a golden
 fortress with seven doors and seven roads radiat
ing from it. As a fertility goddess she is a guardian
 of cattle. In her role as vegetation deity, she tills
 the land. She also sows, threshes and winnows
 grain.
 Sacrifice is in the form of a goat, or more usu
ally milk, butter and cheese. 
Disani is the protectress of the bonds of kin
ship and family loyalty. In conflict with this role
 she also inadvertently slaughtered her own son
 by decapitation, which gave rise to an annual
 spring rite of the dying god, witnessed in the reli
gions of many other agricultural and pastoral
 societies.
 Disciplina
 Minor goddess. Roman. Significant in the
 legions, known particularly from the second 
century BC.
 Discordia
 Minor goddess of dissent. Roman. Modeled on
 the Greek deity ERIS.
 Disir
 Collective name for guardian goddesses. 
Nordic (Icelandic) and Germanic. They were the
 subject of a sacrificial ritual in autumn and have
 strong fertility connotations as vegetation and 
fertility deities. They are identified in the Sigr
drifumal (Poetic Edda) and include the Valkyries
 and Norns of Germanic mythology.
 Diti
 Goddess. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic). The
 daughter of DAKSA, a consort of ADITI (in 
the Rg Veda) or KASYAPA and the mother of a
 race of demons. Attributes: blue lotus, child and
 fruit. 
See also Aditi.
 Divona
 Fertility goddess. Celtic (Gallic). Associated with
 water and known only from inscriptions.
Djila’qons
 Duillae 81
 Dongo
 Sea goddess. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. An old woman who lives at the
 head of a major inlet in Haida territory and con
trols all the creatures of the sea.
 Dogumrik
 Local guardian and warrior god. Kafir
 [Afghanistan]. Known from the village of
 Shtiwe in the southeastern Hindukush, Dogum
rik is the herdsman to the daughters of the god
 IMRA and possibly a localized equivalent of the
 god MON.
 Dolichenus
 Weather god. Western Semitic (Syrian).
 Depicted bearded and standing upon a bull.
 Attributes include a double ax and lightning. He
 became syncretized with the Roman god
 JUPITER.
 Dombi
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist. One
 of a group of GAURI. Color: red or blue. Attribute:
 a banner.
 Don
 Mother goddess. Celtic (Welsh). Described in the
 Mabinogion as the progenitress of the Welsh pan
theon. Equates with the Irish goddess DANU.
 Donar
 Storm god. Germanic. The god of thunder whose
 symbol is either a hammer or an ax. The day
 name Donnerstag in modern German equates
 with Thursday, a corruption of Thor’s day. 
See also THOR.
 Storm god. Songhai [Niger valley, West Africa].
 The creator of thunderbolts, which are perceived
 as stone ax-heads. As the celestial smith he forges
 lightning and strikes a huge bell with his ax to
 generate thunder.
 Donn
 Chthonic underworld god. Celtic (Irish). Accord
ing to legend, he lives on an island to the south
west of Munster and is responsible for the passage
 of the dead toward the otherworld.
 Doris
 Sea goddess. Greek. Daughter of OKEANOS and
 TETHYS and consort of NEREUS. In Hesiod’s
 Theogony her children include AMPHITRITE and
 THETIS among many minor figures.
 Doudoun
 God of Nile cataracts. Nubian. Depicted as an
 antelope with twisted horns. His consorts are Sati
 and Anuket. Modeled on the Egyptian ram god
 KHNUM. Also Dodonu.
 See also ANUKIS.
 Dsahadoldza (fringe mouth)
 Chthonic god of earth and water. Navaho [USA].
 A number of deities are known under this title.
 The priest impersonating the god has one side of
 his body painted red and the other side black. He
 wears a buckskin mask painted with a horizontal
 yellow band to represent the evening sky and
 eight vertical black stripes to represent rain.
 Duillae
 Fertility and vegetation goddesses. Romano
Iberian. Comparable with the MATRES in Gaul.
82 Dulha Deo
 Dulha Deo
 Minor god of the bridegroom. Hindu. Attribute:
 an ax hanging from a tree.
 DUMUZI
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. Shepherd and vegetation
 god; underworld god. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC or
 earlier to circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Damn; Ama-usum-gal-ana; Tammuz
 (Hebrew).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES plaques; votive stelae; glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts including the
 Inana’s Descent and the Death of Dumuzi.
 Dumuzi, as popularly understood, is a male
 deity who in mythical times was the tutelary
 god of the city of Bad-tibira between Lagasˇ and
 Uruk in southern Mesopotamia. It is believed
 that there was also a goddess Dumuzi from Kin
unir near Lagasˇ. The two became syncretized as
 the single male personality who occupies a spe
cial place in the Sumerian pantheon as the con
sort of the goddess INANA. He is the first “dying
 and rising” god to be historically recorded by
 name.
 Dumuzi is particularly associated with the date
 palm. He is commanded by Inana (who is herself
 under a pledge to the goddess ERESˇKIGAL) to
 enter the underworld for a period of each year,
 which accounts for the seasonal demise of the
 green world to drought.
 His worshipers were chiefly women but his 
cult was very widespread and as late as Biblical
 times there are references to women “weeping
 for Tammuz.” It may be argued that Dumuzi is
 the model on which later gods including ADONIS
 are modeled. In Syriac tradition he is the son of
 the mortal father Kautar (Aramaic: Kosˇar).
 See also KOTAR.
 Dur
 Chthonic underworld god. Kassite [Iran]. Equates
 with the Babylonian-Akkadian god NERGAL.
 Durangama (going far away)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of sev
eral deified BHUMIS recognized as different spir
itual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: green. Attributes: staff on a great lotus.
 DURGA
 ORIGIN Hindu (Puranic) [India]. Vengeful war
rior goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400 (but
 probably known from earlier times) until present.
 SYNONYMS KUMARI; Shakti; Agni-Durga (eight
armed); APARAJITA (unconquered). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally bronze but
 also stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES chiefly Ramayana and Mahab
harata epics and Puranic texts, but mentioned
 by name in Vedic literature.
 Durga is one of the angry and aggressive aspects of
 the goddess Sakti, whose earliest role in Hindu
 mythology is to fight and conquer demons but who
 also personifies the SAKTI or female aspect of any
 male deity. Iconographically, Durga is depicted as
 a beautiful golden-skinned woman who rides upon
 a lion or a tiger. She has eight or ten arms, each
 bearing a weapon presented to her by different
 gods and including the conch shell of VIS ˇNU, the
 trident of S ˇIVA, the bow of RAMA and the sudarshan
DYAUS PITAR 83
 (spoked disc) of KRSNA. These gifts extend to her
 the power of the eight or ten gods. She may wear
 a necklace of skulls. She is associated with the
 Himalaya and Vindhya mountains and is often
 depicted slaughtering the buffalo-demon MAHISA
 by thrusting her trident into his body.
 In a contrasting aspect in later Hindu 
traditions, Durga takes the role of a mother
 goddess and consort of S ˇiva and becomes partly
 syncretized with PARVATI. She is also linked with
 the fertility of crops. In this capacity her 
most important festival is the Durga Puja, cele
brated at harvest time, during which devotees
 persistently make obscene gestures and com
ments to stimulate her fecundity. She is
 depicted flanked by four other deities, LAKSMI,
 SARASVATI, GANESA and KARTTIKEYA, who are
 said to be her children.
 In general Durga is perceived in northern India
 as the gentle bride epitomizing family unity, while
 in southern India she is revered more in her war
like and murderous aspect.
 Durjaya (unconquerable)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of the god BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Dus ˇara (‘the one’ of s ˇara)
 Local tutelary god. Western Semitic
 (Nabataean). Associated with vegetation and fer
tility in the Hauran region from about 312 BC
 until circa AD 500. Regarded as a supreme deity,
 comparable to BAAL S ˇAMIN, who never achieved
 Dusˇara’s popularity among the nomadic
 Nabataeans, for whom farming was precarious.
 He was represented by a black obelisk at Petra.
 Sacred animals are the eagle and panther. Attrib
utes include a vine stem. In Hellenic times he
 was the subject of inscriptions at Delos and
 Miletus and he was equated with DIONYSOS.
 Also Dusˇares; Dus-S ˇara.
 Duzhi
 Local god of uncertain affinities. Kafir [Afghan
istan]. Known only from an altar stone which
 was generally erected beside that of the water
 god BAGISHT. Sacrifice was in the form of a male
 goat.
 Dvipakumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHAVANAVASI (dwelling in places).
 They are of youthful appearance and associated
 with rain and thunder.
 DYAUS PITAR (heaven father)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic) [India]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC or
 earlier until present.
 SYNONYMS the Sanskrit dyaus is derived from
 the Indo-European root which also gives
 Deus (Roman); ZEUS (Greek); TYR (German),
 etc.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg-veda and other Vedic
 texts.
 Dyaus pitar is a creator god associated with 
the goddess Prthivi; the primordial couple are
 normally addressed as Dyavaprthivi. Between
 them they created the rest of the Vedic pantheon,
 placed heaven and earth in conjunction with one
 another and generally preserved the cosmic order.
 Dyaus is overshadowed and superseded by the
 rain god INDRA in later Hindu tradition, possibly
 because he was brought into India by the Aryan
84 Dzivaguru
 settlers from the north who had been used to a
 cold, bleak climate and who needed a supreme
 deity more relevant to a hot, dry environment.
 Dzivaguru
 Chthonic mother goddess. Korekore (Shona)
 [northern Zimbabwe, southern Africa]. Originally
 said to have ruled both heaven and earth and
 lived in a palace by a sacred lake near Dande.
 She is depicted wearing goatskins and bearing 
a cornucopia holding magical substances. 
Her sacred creatures are mythical golden 
sunbirds, probably modeled on swallows, a 
pair of which were actually discovered in 
Zimbabwe.
6
 E
 E Alom (conceiver of children)
 Primeval creator goddess. Mayan (Quiche, classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Guatemalan highlands]. The
 consort of E QUAHOLOM, identified in the 
sacred Maya book, the Popol Vuh. Her son is
 GUKUMATZ, the counterpart of the Aztec god
 QUETZALCOATL. Also Bitol.
 E Quaholom (begetter of children)
 Primeval creator god. Mayan (Quiche, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Guatemala highlands]. Identi
fied in the sacred Maya book the Popol Vuh. The
 consort of the goddess E ALOM and the father of
 GUKUMATZ who equates with the Aztec QUET
ZALCOATL. Also Tzacol.
 EA
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian)
 [Iraq]. God of primordial waters.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1900 BC to
 circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Ea-sˇarru; ENKI (Sumerian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Eridu, Babylon.
 ART REFERENCES glyptics and other carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts including
 Enuma Elisˇ, Epic Of Gilgamesˇ, Nergal and
 Eresˇkigal etc.
 One of the major deities in the old Babylonian
Akkadian pantheon who evolved from the model
 of Enki. God of sweet water and of wisdom. His
 consort is DAMKINA and his temple is the Apsu
 house or E-engurra in Eridu (lost). By the neo
Babylonian period his popularity as a major deity
 had waned and he was relegated to the role of
 father of the god MARDUK.
 Eacus
 Weather god. Romano-Iberian. Known from the
 area of Castille and syncretized with the local
 Roman deity Jupiter Solutorius.
 Ebisu
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. The most popular
 of seven gods of fortune recognized in Shinto
ism and frequently linked with the god
 DAIKOKU. He is depicted as a fat, smiling and
 bearded fisherman holding a fishing rod in one
 hand and a sea bream in the other. The name
 does not appear in the classical sacred texts
 Nihongi and Kojiki, but Ebisu is known to 
have been worshiped in ancient times among
 fishermen. From about the sixteenth century
 his character changed and he became a deity
 associated with profit. Thus he is a patron of
 85
86 Edeke
 Ehecatl
 commerce and his picture hangs in most estab
lishments. He is perhaps syncretized with the
 gods HIRUKO and KOTO-SHIRO-NUSHI. He may
 also be identified with Fudo, the god of knowl
edge. He does not join the rest of the Shinto
 pantheon in the great October festival at Izumo
 because he is deaf. His festival is celebrated con
currently in his own temple.
 Edeke
 God of disasters. Teso [Uganda, East Africa]. The
 antagonist of the creator god APAP, Edeke is pro
pitiated during times of famine and plague.
 Edusa
 Minor god of infants. Roman. Responsible for
 the proper nourishment of the child.
 Eee-A-O (Yao)
 Primordial being. Gnostic Christian. The first of
 the androgynous principles born to YALDABAOTH,
 the prime parent, ruling the seven heavens of
 chaos in gnostic mythology.
 Egeria
 Fertility goddess. Roman. Deity of oak trees
 whose priestess enacted an annual sacred mar
riage with the king of Rome, who took the part of
 JUPITER. The festival is a variation of that cele
brating the marriage of ZEUS and HERA which
 took place in Athens. A number of springs and
 lakes were sacred to her.
 Egres
 Fertility god. Karelian [Finland]. The deity
 responsible for the turnip crop. Also Akras.
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The sun deity representing the second
 of the five world ages, each of which lasted for
 2028 heavenly years, each heavenly year being
 fifty-two terrestrial years. Assigned to the air or
 wind and presided over by QUETZALCOATL, to
 whose complex of deities he belongs. According
 to tradition, the age ended in a cataclysmic
 destruction caused by hurricanes. All humanity
 turned into monkeys. Illustrated by the “Stone of
 the Four Suns” [Yale Peabody Museum]. Also (4)
 Ehecatl; Ehecatonatiuh.
 Ehecatl-Quetzalcoatl
 Primordial god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A syncretization of EHECATL and
 QUETZALCOATL, one of four gods who support
 the lowest heaven at each cardinal point. He is
 perceived as residing in the west (codices Borgia
 and Vaticanus B). He is the deity who rules 
over the ninth of the thirteen heavens, Itztapal
 Nanatzcayan (where the stone slabs crash
 together). In a separate tradition, Ehecatl
Quetzalcoatl executed the monstrous god
 XOLOTL when he declined to offer his blood in
 self-sacrifice for the creation of mankind.
 EILEITHYIA (the coming)
 ORIGIN Greek and previously Mycenaean. God
dess of birth.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Eleuthyia (possibly original Minoan);
 Ilithyia (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly in Crete where there
 exists an early (Mycenaean) cave sanctuary at
 Amnisos, and in the region of Lakonia.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs. 
EL 87
 LITERARY SOURCES Theogony and Hymn to Apollo
 (Hesiod).
 Primarily worshiped by women, Eileithyia is
 called upon specifically to ease the pain and dan
ger of childbirth. It was said that the cries of labor
 summoned her presence. The daughter of ZEUS
 and HERA and the sibling of HEBE and ARES, she
 assisted at the birth of APOLLO. Her role is later
 largely superseded by ARTEMIS. The name is also
 used in a plural collective sense (reflecting the
 practice of women in a neighborhood coming
 together to assist at childbirth). In Sparta there
 was allegedly a running track at the end of which
 was a temple to Eileithyia.
 Eirene
 Goddess of peace. Greek. The daughter of ZEUS
 and THEMIS and the sister of Horae, DIKE and
 EUNOMIA.
 See also HOURS.
 Eji Ogbe
 Tutelary god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 The so-called “king” of the pantheon and men
tioned in a legend of the dove which is a symbol
 of prosperity.
 Ek Chuah
 God of merchants. Mayan (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. Also the deity responsible for the
 cacao crop. (The cacao bean was traditionally the
 standard currency throughout Mesoamerica.)
 Probably of Putun origin, he is typically depicted
 painted black, except for a red area around the lips
 and chin. He has a distinctive downwardly pro
jecting lower lip, horseshoe shapes around each
 eye and a highly elongated nose. He may also
 bear a scorpion’s tail. Other attributes include a
 carrying strap in his headdress and sometimes a
 pack on his back. Also God M.
 Ekadasarudra
 Collective name for a group of gods. Hindu. The
 eleven forms of the god RUDRA, each typically
 represented with sixteen arms. Common attrib
utes include ax, moon disc and tiger skin.
 Ekajata (she who has but one chignon)
 Goddess of good fortune. Buddhist (Varjayana).
 She offers happiness and removes personal obsta
cles. Occasionally found attending the goddess
 Khadirayani-Tara. She is an emanation of AKSOB
HYA and a form of TARA. She may have one or
 twelve heads. Color: blue. Attributes: arrow, ax,
 bell, blue lotus, book, bow, conch, cup, hook,
 image of AMITABHA on the crown, knife, noose,
 skull, staff, sword and tiger skin. Three-eyed.
 Ekanetra (one-eyed)
 Minor deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of
 a group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Virtually identical with EKARUDRA, but with a
 single eye.
 Ekarudra
 Minor deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of
 a group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Virtually identical with EKANETRA, but with
 normal eyes.
 EL
 ORIGIN Western Semitic regions and Israel
 (northern Hebrew tribes) [Syria, Lebanon and
 Israel]. Creator god. 
88 Elagabal
 Elagabal (lord of the mountain)
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2500 BC to
 700 BC.
 SYNONYMS et elyon (most high god); et sadday (god
 of the mountain); et olam (everlasting god); et
 betel (god of storms), IL [southern Arabian].
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tirzah, S ˇamaria, Bethel,
 Dan and many local hill shrines.
 ART REFERENCES none extant other than from
 later artists.
 LITERARY SOURCES Vetus Testamentum; Qum’
 Ran texts.
 Modeled on the creator god of the Canaanites,
 Il, represented by the bull and revered by the
 Hebrew tribes who settled northern Palestine.
 According to some Ugaritic (Ras S ˇamra) texts,
 not the original creator but the offspring of an
 older principal, EL-EB (god of the father). In
 Biblical texts the word el comes to be used in a
 descriptive sense as a qualifying epithet meaning
 “lord.” Possibly El came to represent the sum of
 all the creator spirits of the northern tribes.
 Israel was unwilling to part with the name
 against pressure from the southern state of Judah
 (see YHWH), but the name fell into disuse after
 suppression of Israel by Tiglathpileser II
 (Assyria). The Hebrew term ELOHIM may denote
 an “upper tier” of great gods while ELIM applies
 to a lower order of deities.
 NOTE: Biblical traditions were carried by the
 southern state of Judah. The impression is given
 that El is a distant, vaguely defined figure per
ceived in human form—“he” is able to see, hear,
 walk and touch—though no images in human
 form seem to have been created. El was appar
ently symbolized in Israel from circa 922 BC
 again by the bull calf (I Kings 12), probably
 emulating the Canaanite precedent. The voice
 of El is said to be like thunder, the clouds are his
 chariot and he waters the mountains from
 heaven.
 Local tutelary god. Syrian. Probably originat
ing as a mountain deity with strong solar links.
 His sacred animal is the eagle. His cult was based
 on the town of Emesa [Homs], where he was
 worshiped in the form of a dome-shaped, black
 stone obelisk. His name became Hellenized as
 Heliogabalos.
 El’eb
 Primordial god. Western Semitic (Canaanite).
 In some texts the god EL (IL) is not the original
 being but is preceded by a father figure. 
EL-EB translates as “god the father.”
 See also YALDABAOTH.
 Elim
 Collective term for gods. Judaic. Found in the
 Vetus Testamentum and distinguishing the lower
 order of gods from the great deities, ELOHIM.
 Elkunirsa
 Creator god. Western Semitic (Canaanite) and
 Hittite. Allegedly borrowed and modified from
 the Canaanite god IL. His consort is Asˇerdus
 (Canaanite: AS ˇERTU).
 Ellaman (lady of the boundary)
 Goddess of passage. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil)
 [southern India]. A goddess guarding boundaries
 of villages and fields. One of the NAVASAKTI or
 astral deities. Also Ellaiyamman.
 Ellel
 Creator god. Hittite and Hurrian. Derived from
 the Babylonian-Akkadian god ELLIL.
Ellil
 ENKI 89
 Creator god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian).
 See also ENLIL.
 Eloai
 Primordial being. Gnostic Christian. The second
 of the androgynous principles born to YALD
ABAOTH, the prime parent, ruling the seven heav
ens of chaos in Gnostic mythology.
 Elohim
 Collective term for gods. Judaic. Found in the
 Vetus Testamentum and distinguishing the higher
 order of great gods from the minor deities, ELIM.
 Also applied to the Israelite god YHWH.
 Emeli Hin
 Creator god. Tuareg [central Sudan]. A generic
 title meaning “my lord.”
 Eme’mqut
 Animistic spirit. Siberian Koryak. See
 QUIKINN.A’QU.
 Emes ˇ
 Vegetation god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Emesˇ was created at the wish of ENLIL to take
 responsibility on earth for woods, fields, sheep
 folds and stables. He is identified with the abun
dance of the earth and with summer. An uniden
tified deity who is depicted iconographically with
 a plough may well be Emesˇ.
 Enbilulu
 River god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Baby
lonian-Akkadian). In creation mythology he is
 placed in charge of the sacred rivers Tigris and
 Euphrates by the god ENKI. He is also god of
 canals, irrigation and farming. In Babylonian
 times he becomes the son of EA and is syncretized
 with ADAD.
 Endouellicus
 Chthonic oracular and healing god. Romano
Iberian. Known from the Portuguese region.
 Probably the recipient of pig sacrifice.
 Endursaga (lofty mace)
 Herald god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). He leads
 the Sumerian pantheon particularly in times of
 conflict. Also IS ˇUM (Akkadian).
 ENKI (lord of the soul) 
ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. Cre
ator god; god of wisdom; god of sweet water.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 circa 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS EA (god of the deep, Akkadian);
 Lugal-id(ak) (owner of the river); Lugal
abzu(ak) (owner of the deeps); NUDIMMUD
 (image fashioner).
 Center(s) of worship  probably at Eridu (Abu
 S
 ˇahrain), but known only from literature.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae, glyptics.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation epics including Atra
hasis, Enki and the World Order, temple hymns etc.
 As god of water in its capacity to nourish the earth,
 Enki is one of the major Sumerian deities. The son
 of AN and NAMMU, he is considered by some to be
 a late entry to the pantheon. His consort is DAMK
INA and his sanctuary at Eridu is E-engurra. He is
 usually represented as a figure in typical horned
 headdress and tiered skirt with two streams of water
90 Enkimdu
 SYNONYMS ELLIL; Illil; Ilu; Nunamnir.
 (Tigris and Euphrates) springing from his shoulders
 or from a vase and including leaping fish. He may
 also hold the eagle-like Imdugud (thunder) bird,
 thus signifying clouds rising from the waters. His
 foot may rest on an ibex. Among his offspring are
 ASˇALLUHA, NIN-SAR (by NINHURSAG˜A), NIN-IMMA
 (by NINKURRA) and UTTU (by NINMAH).
 Enki is a complex and, at times, Machiavellian
 character. The running of day-to-day affairs is
 left to him and in the creation mythology he
 organized the earth and established law and order.
 He is also seen in a heroic light, having been one
 of three principal deities engaged in the primor
dial battle between good and evil, the latter per
sonified in the dragon Kur. In the Sumerian
 creation epic Enki set out in a boat to avenge the
 abduction by Kur of the goddess ERES ˇKIGAL. Kur
 fought back with huge stones.
 Enki is perceived to fill the Tigris and Euphrates
 with sacred sweet water. He also appoints various
 other minor deities to their duties in connection
 with the well-being of the natural world. Addi
tionally he is god of artists and craftsmen.
 According to one legend, Enki generated the
 plants from his semen and inside his body until it
 made him ill, whereupon Ninhursag˜a placed him
 in her own vagina and gave birth to his progeny.
 INANA, Ninhursag˜a and ENLIL are variously
 drawn, at times, as serious adversaries.
 Enkimdu
 God of canals and ditches. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian). In creation mythology he is given his
 task by the god ENKI. 
See also ENBILULU.
 ENLIL (lord wind?)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. God
 of the air.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC or
 earlier to circa 1750 BC.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Nippur, Dur Kurigalzu, but
 also at Eridu and Ur.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae and glyp
tics.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation texts, particularly
 the Lament of Ur and Creation of the Hoe; tem
ple hymns including the Hymn to Enlil, etc.
 Enlil is the son of the primordial AN and KI. The
 tutelary deity of Nippur where, in his honor, the
 Ekur sanctuary was built (not re-discovered), he
 was the most important god of southern
 Mesopotamia during the third millennium BC.
 His consort is NINLIL who was impregnated by
 the “waters of Enlil” to create the moon god
 NANNA. (In the Akkadian pantheon his consort
 becomes MULLILTU.) He is depicted in horned
 headdress and tiered skirt, or by a horned crown
 on a pedestal. According to the “Hymn to Enlil”
 he works alone and unaided. He is said to have
 made the pick-ax, “caused the good day to come
 forth” and “brought forth seed from the earth.”
 He was invoked to bless his cities and ensure
 prosperity and abundance. His importance was
 such that the tutelary gods of other cities “trav
eled” to Nippur with offerings to Enlil. Enlil cre
ated several deities concerned with overseeing
 the natural world. In his more destructive aspect
 he allowed the birth goddess to kill at birth and
 was responsible for miscarriage in cows and ewes.
 He was seen as manifesting himself in both
 benevolence and destructive violence. Because of
 his peculiarly national status he became down
graded in the Babylonian and Assyrian pan
theons, being superseded respectively by
 MARDUK and ASSUR.
 Enmesarra
 Chthonic god of the law. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). According to texts
 he controls the me’s or divine rules.
Ennead
 EPONA 91
 The Heliopolis pantheon. Egyptian (Lower). The
 nine major deities enumerated and given their
 genealogy by the priesthood of Heliopolis, the
 center of the sun-worshiping cult in Lower Egypt.
 Comprising the sun god ATUM (or Atum-Re) and
 his offspring, S ˇU, TEFNUT, GEB, NUT, OSIRIS, ISIS,
 SETHand NEPHTHYS. Other Egyptian cult centers
 possessed similar pantheons though not necessar
ily including the same list of deities. Thus, for
 example, the god PTAH presided at Thebes.
 Ennugi
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylonian
Akkadian). The attendant and throne-bearer of
 ENLIL (ELLIL).
 Enten
 Fertility god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Created
 by ENLIL as a guardian deity of farmers alongside
 the minor god EMESˇ, Enten was given specific
 responsibility for the fertility of ewes, goats, cows,
 donkeys, birds and other animals. He is identified
 with the abundance of the earth and with the win
ter period.
 Enundu
 Plague god. Gishu [Uganda, East Africa]. A god
 identified with smallpox and propitiated with the
 sacrifice of a goat.
 Enzu
 God. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian). The
 name is a corruption, apparently a misreading of
 Suen, the archaic form of SIN.
 Eos
 Sky goddess. Hellenized Indo-European. The
 spirit of the dawn. She is the daughter of 
HYPERION and THEA, and the sister of HELIOS
 (sun) and SELENE (moon). The consort of AEO
LOS, the storm god son of POSEIDON, she bore six
 children who represent the various winds. Hesiod
 accounts her as the consort of Astraeos. In sepa
rate tradition she is the mother of Memnon who
 was slain at Troy, and her tears are the morning
 dew. 
See also AURORA.
 Eostre
 Fertility goddess of spring. Anglo-Saxon. The
 derivation of “Easter.” Probably a number of the
 obscure folk customs surrounding Easter and still
 practiced in England trace back to her worship.
 Epimetheus
 Minor creator god. Greek and Roman. One 
of the four sons of IAPETOS and Klymene
 (Titan), and the brother of PROMETHEUS.
 Jointly responsible for the creation of mankind.
 Epimetheus’ strongest claim to fame lies in his
 liaison with the first mortal woman, Pandora,
 whom the gods had cautioned him to avoid. 
Her curiosity caused her to open the box
 belonging to JUPITER in which he had placed all
 the vices, diseases and sufferings of humanity,
 but which also included the benevolent spirit 
of hope.
 EPONA (mare)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Gallic). Horse goddess with fer
tility connotations.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC and
 probably earlier until Christianization (circa 
AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT probably originating from
 Alesia in Gaul but spreading extensively,
 including Rome.
92 Erebos
 ART REFERENCES stone and bronze statuettes
 (mainly Luxembourg and Côte d’Or); various
 monumental carvings. 
LITERARY SOURCES inscriptions.
 A popular equestrian goddess closely allied with
 the Celtic trade in, and domestic use of, horses.
 Concerned with healing and with the fertility of
 domestic animals. The cult probably originated
 from Alesia in the heartland of Gallic resistance
 and location of Vercingetorix’s final stand against
 Julius Caesar. She is arguably the only Celtic god
dess to have been worshiped in Rome itself and
 her popularity was spread throughout the regions
 of Roman occupation (see also MORRIGAN). Her
 festival was celebrated on December 18.
 Epona is typically depicted with mares and
 foals, usually riding side-saddle or merely in asso
ciation with horses. She also holds cornucopiae,
 sheaves of corn and other fruits suggesting an
 ancillary role as a vegetation goddess. Epona is
 also, on occasion, linked with dogs and birds.
 Votive inscriptions have been found at Allerey,
 Armançon and Essay (Côte d’Or), Jabreilles,
 Luxeuil, Santanay and others where sometimes she
 is alone with horse(s) and sometimes is depicted
 with the “mothers” (see MATRES). She was partic
ularly worshiped by Roman cavalry regiments. At
 Armançon she rides in a cart reminiscent of the
 “tour” of other northern fertility goddesses (see
 NERTHUS). In other circumstances Epona figurines
 are found associated with burial grounds such as La
 Horgue au Sablon illustrating the common link,
 well attested in ancient and modern cults, between
 fertility and death. Epona may also be enshrined
 close to thermal springs under which circumstance
 she often appears naked like a water nymph e.g.
 Allerey and Saulon-la-Chapelle.
 Erebos
 Primordial deity. Greco-Roman. Engendered by
 CHAOSand NYX, he formed an incestuous liaison
 with his mother to create the first elements of the
 cosmos, AETHER (light) and Hemera (day), in pre
Homeric mythology.
 ERES ˇKIGAL (the great below)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. Chthonic underworld
 goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC or
 earlier to 200 BC or later.
 SYNONYMS ALLATU(M).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none. 
ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae, glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation epics and other texts
 including Inana’s Descent and the Death of
 Dumuzi.
 Eresˇkigal is the consort of NERGAL and queen of
 the underworld. She is also the mother of
 NINAZU. According to some texts she was once
 a sky goddess who was abducted by the mon
strous deity Kur. She lives in the palace of
 Ganzir and equates with the Greek PERSE
PHONE. Arguably, Eresˇkigal may be seen as a
 dark alter ego of the goddess INANA and is iden
tified in some texts as her elder sibling. Her con
sort is also identified as GUGULANA. In legend
 Eresˇkigal is challenged by Inana but after judg
ment by the seven Annunaki, the underworld
 goddess renders her a corpse for three days until
 she is revived through the intervention of ENKI,
 the god of wisdom. In western Semitic pan
theons Eresˇkigal becomes Allatu.
 Erh Lang (master)
 Tutelary deity. Chinese. Associated with a celes
tial dog, Erh Lang was once honored with a
 sanctuary in Beijing (Peking). According to tra
dition he and the dog saved the city from flood
ing. His attributes include a bow which he is
Eshu 93
 depicted drawing, and arrows. The dog may be
 replaced by a rat, in which case the arrows are
 not included. The rat is a sign of impending
 wealth and therefore the drawing of an empty
 bow at the rat is a sign which invokes wealth of
 children.
 Erinys
 Chthonic goddess of wrath. Greek. According to
 legend she was a consort of POSEIDON by whom
 she bore the fabulous horse Areon. By implication
 she may also have been a grim maternal figure
 who engendered all horses. She may be equated
 with a wrathful DEMETER who is sometimes given
 the epithet Erinys. Erinys appears in the collec
tive form of three Erinyes, their heads covered
 with snake-locks and bearing torches from the
 underworld. In the Iliad they are described as
 those “who beneath the earth punish dead men,
 whoever has sworn a false oath.” In Roman
 mythology they are the Furies.
 Eris
 Goddess of dissent or strife. Greek. The consort
 of ARES, the god of war, and the mother of
 HORKOS (oath). She is depicted throwing the
 apple of discord among guests at a wedding,
 offering it “to the fairest” to provoke argument.
 In Roman mythology she becomes DISCORDIA.
 Eriu
 Fertility goddess. Celtic (Irish). An aspect of the
 MORRIGAN. One of the deities who were known
 as the “Sovereignty of Ireland” and wedded sym
bolically to a mortal king. Also a warrior goddess,
 capable of changing shape from girl to hag, and
 into birds and animals. She is patroness of the
 royal seat of Uisnech in County Meath. Eire and
 Erin are corruptions of her name. 
See also BADB.
 Erkilek
 Hunting god. Inuit [North America]. A malev
olent deity with the head and nose of a dog and
 the body of a man. He carries a bow, with
 arrows contained in a quiver, and is an expert
 archer.
 Eros
 Primordial deity. Greco-Roman. One of the chil
dren of AETHER and Hemera in the pre-Homeric
 cosmos. Listed in Hesiod’s Theogony as one of
 three archetypal beings with CHAOS and GAIA.
 Also AMOR (Roman).
 Erra
 God of war. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). Known chiefly from the Erra Epic, circa
 1000 BC, he is also the god of raids, riots and
 scorched earth. Closely identified with the god
 NERGAL, his cult center is Emeslam in the city of
 Kutha (lost). In Babylonian times he is identified
 as a plague god.
 Erua See ZARPANITU(M).
 Es
 Creator god. Ket [Siberian]. Described as an old
 man with a long black beard, he fashioned the
 first humans from clay. Those tossed from his
 right hand became men, and those from his left
 became women.
 Eshu
 Itinerant god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 An ancient deity regarded as the attendant 
and messenger of the creator god OLODUMARE.
 He passes among mortal people assessing 
character and meting out punishment. Devotees
94 Esˇmun
 are identified by necklaces of black or brown
 beads.
 Es ˇmun
 God of healing. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Known first from the Iron Age levels at Sidon, 
his cult spread as far as Carthage, Cyprus 
and Sardinia. Possibly became syncretized 
with the god MELQART and, in Hellenic times,
 with the physician god ASKLEPIOS. His name
 further became linked with the mother goddess
 CAELESTIS.
 Estsanatlehi (woman that changes)
 Fertility goddess. Navaho [USA]. Probably
 regarded as the most powerful deity in the
 Navaho pantheon, she has powers of endless
 self-rejuvenation. According to tradition, she
 was created from a small turquoise image into
 which life was infused through a ritual of the
 great gods and she is the sister of the goddess
 YOLKAI ESTAN. She is also the consort of the
 sun god TSOHANOAI and the mother of the war
 god NAYENEZGANI. She is said to live in the west
 and is benevolent in nature, sending the gentle
 rains of summer and the warm thawing winds of
 spring.
 Esu
 God of passage. Edo [Benin and Nigeria, West
 Africa]. A fearsome deity who stands at the gates
 of the home of the gods holding a set of keys. He
 is known for his trickery.
 Esus
 God of war. Celtic (Continental European). Men
tioned by the Roman writer Lucan but otherwise
 virtually unknown. He may have originated as a
 tree god. One carving [Trier] identifies Esus
 felling a tree with birds in the branches (see 
also INANA). Elsewhere he is associated with three
 cranes and a bull.
 Eunomia
 Goddess of order. Greek. One of the children of
 ZEUS and THEMIS, her siblings include the
 Horae, DIKE and EIRENE.
 See also HOURS.
 Euros
 God of the east winds. Greco-Roman. One of the
 sons of EOS. Particularly known from Sparta and
 later Romanized as Eurus.
 Eurynome
 Sea goddess. Greek. The daughter of Nisos and
 mother of the Graces. Also the mother of Belle
pheron, fathered by POSEIDON, though she is
 accounted as the consort of GLAUKOS. Little else
 is known, but her cult center was apparently at
 Phigaleia (Arcadia).
6
 F
 Fabulinus
 Minor god of infants. Roman. Responsible for
 the first words of the child.
 Faivarongo
 God of mariners. Polynesian [Tikopia]. The 
eldest son of a being known as Ariki Kafika
 Tuisifo, he is a patron and guardian of seafarers
 and is also regarded as the origin of the royal
 Tikopian lineage. Also known as the “grandsire
 of the ocean.” He is closely linked with the
 chthonic god TIFENUA and the sky god ATUA I
 KAFIKA.
 Faraguvol
 Votive god. Puerto Rico and Haiti. The deified
 trunk of a tree which is carried to a tribal chief
 and presented. The being represented, classed as
 a ZEMI, is considered to wander about and can
 escape from a closed bag or sack. 
Faro
 River god. Bambara [Mali, West Africa]. Regarded
 as the deity who brought order to the world at the
 time of creation. He impregnated himself and
 gave birth to twins who were the first human
 beings. He is also the progenitor of fish stocks in
 the river Niger. His chief adversary is the god of
 the desert wind, TELIKO. Faro is propitiated
 annually by a Komo society of men in a ritual of
 dancing. They use a special mask which is created
 anew each year. According to legend Faro came
 to earth after a long period of drought during
 which most of the living things died. He also gave
 mankind the gift of speech.
 Fauna
 Minor vegetation goddess. Roman. Consort of
 FAUNUS with guardianship of woods and plants.
 Faunus
 Minor vegetation god. Roman. Consort of FAUNA
 with guardianship of woods and plants. He was
 given many of the attributes of the Greek god
 PAN including horns and legs of a goat.
 Fe
 Tutelary god. Gai [Ivory Coast, West Africa]. By
 tradition he arbitrated a dispute between two
 tribes, the Chuilo and the Nyaio. The Nyaio were
 eventually defeated and Fe became specifically
 the god of the Chuilo people. He is propitiated by
 95
96 Fe’e
 means of a dance in which a terrifying mask is
 worn.
 Fe’e
 God of the dead. Polynesian. Perceived as a giant
 cuttlefish who was once subdued by the god of
 deep underground rocks. Part of the principle of
 Polynesian religion that every deity has a superior
 and and inferior who have either bested, or been
 bested by, the other at some mythical time.
 Fei Lian See FENG PO.
 Felicitas
 Minor god. Roman. Linked with agricultural
 prosperity. Known particularly from the second
 century BC.
 Feng Po
 Sky god. Chinese. Described as the “Count of
 the Wind,” which he releases from a sack, he has
 strong links with the sea. He was originally
 regarded as malevolent and the antagonist of the
 god Shen Yi. Feng Po may be depicted in human
 form as an old man with a white beard, or in the
 guise of a dragon with the head of a bird or a
 deer. Also Fei Lian; Fei Lien; Feng Bo.
 Fides
 Minor god. Roman. Identified with faith and loyalty.
 A sanctuary was dedicated to him in Rome circa 254
 BC. Symbolized by a pair of covered hands.
 Fidi Mukullu
 Creator god. Bena Lulua [Democratic Republic
 of Congo, central Africa]. He provides mankind
 with food, tools and weapons. The sun and moon
 were engendered from his cheeks.
 FJORGYN
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) region. Early fertility
 goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP Viking period 
(circa AD 700) or earlier to Christianization
 (circa AD 1100). 
SYNONYMS possibly lord.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known, but probably the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES scant mention in various Ice
landic codices. Fjorgyn is referred to by Snorri
 in Skaldskaparmal.
 Practically nothing is known about Fjorgyn,
 though it is suggested that she is the mother of
 THOR. She may therefore be lord by a different
 name. May also have been married to, or had a
 brother by the same name (Fjorgyn). She is men
tioned in the Voluspa of the Poetic Edda and is
 probably the model for the Wagnerian character
 Erda.
 Snorri Sturluson suggests that a god Fjorgvin
 (Fjorgynn) may have been the father of the god
dess FRIGG.
 Flaitheas
 Tutelary goddess. Celtic (Irish). A name applied
 to the “Sovereignty of Ireland.” By tradition Irish
 rulers-designate were offered a cup called the
 dergflaith to drink from, denoting their accept
ance as consort of the goddess.
 Flora
 Goddess of flowers. Roman. Consort of ZEPHYRUS
 and chiefly worshiped by young girls with offerings
FREYR 97
 of fruit and flowers. Her major festivals, with
 strongly sexual overtones but also identified with
 the dead, were celebrated in the spring months
 from April 28 to early May and known as Floralia.
 Forseti
 God of unknown status. Nordic (Icelandic). A
 god of Asgard said by Snorri to be the son of
 BALDER and NANNA. According to an Icelandic
 list of dwellings of the gods, Forseti owned a gold
 and silver hall, Glitnir, and was a good law maker
 and arbiter of disputes. Also Fosite (Friesian).
 Fortuna
 Goddess of good fortune. Roman. A deity who
 particularly appealed to women, partly in an orac
ular context. She is depicted carrying a globe,
 rudder and cornucopiae. She probably evolved
 from the model of the Greek goddess TYCHE.
 Her main symbol is the wheel of fate which she
 may stand upon and Renaissance artists tended to
 depict her thus. Among her more celebrated sanc
tuaries in Rome, the temple of Fortuna Redux
 was built by Domitian to celebrate his victories in
 Germany. She is depicted in a well-known stone
 carving in Gloucester Museum, England, holding
 her three main attributes.
 FREYJA (lady)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) or Germanic. Fertility
 and vegetation goddess.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD 700) and earlier, until after Christianization
 (circa AD 1100). SYNONYMS Gefn (giver); 
Mardoll; Syr (sow); Horn; Skialf; possibly
 Thorgerda in some parts of the north.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT principally in Sweden and
 Norway, but spread throughout the Nordic
 region.
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose: Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); inscriptions;
 various place names.
 Freyja is one of the most popular of the deities in
 Asgard. A VANIR goddess, twin sister and/or wife
 of FREYR, and daughter of NJORD. A goddess of
 love concerned with affairs of the heart, marriage
 and prosperity. Much sought after by giants, and
 reputed to have enjoyed sexual liaisons with many
 suitors, including gods and elves. She drives a
 chariot pulled by two cats and is said to roam at
 night in the form of a she-goat. She also rides
 upon a boar with golden bristles, the Hildeswin.
 Closely associated with death, according to some
 legends she received half of those slain in battle
 (see OTHIN). A weeping goddess with tears of
 gold, symbolized by the boar (see FRIGG), she
 wears a necklace with ritual significance, the
 Brisingamen. Said to be able to take the shape of
 a falcon and fly great distances. Associated with a
 form of witchcraft, seior, involving a seeress and
 divination. Frigg and Freyja are possibly separate
 aspects of a single divine principle.
 FREYR (lord)
 ORIGIN Possibly Swedish or Germanic but
 extending throughout the Nordic region with
 lowest popularity in Iceland. Fertility god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier, until Christianization (circa
 AD 1100). 
SYNONYMS none confirmed, but possibly
 including Frodi (Denmark); YNG or ING; Lytir
 (Sweden).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Uppsala (Sweden), Thrand
heim (Norway) and various temples and
 shrines throughout the Nordic countries
 (none surviving).
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings.
98 FRIGG
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); Adam of Bre
men; inscriptions; place names.
 One of the VANIR gods inhabiting Asgard, and
 concerned with the fertility, prosperity and peace
 of the world. The twin of FREYJA and one of the
 children of NJORD. Married to the giantess Gerd,
 a liaison interpreted by some as representing the
 marriage of a sky god with the earth resulting in
 the harvest. He was, according to the writer Adam
 of Bremen, represented in the cult temple at
 Uppsala by a dramatically ithyphallic statue. The
 Freyr cult was possibly accompanied by a sacred
 marriage and he was regarded as the progenitor of
 the royal Swedish Ynglinge dynasty. According to
 the Flateyjarbok (Icelandic), the statue of Freyr
 was carried around the countryside in a covered
 wagon with an attendant priestess to bless the
 seasons. Other festivals may have included a rit
ual drama in which male attendants dressed in
 effeminate costumes.
 Freyr enjoys very ancient links with the boar,
 considered to possess protective powers, and he
 had a sacred animal with golden bristles called
 Gullinborsti. A sacred stable is described at
 Thrandheim, one of the centers of a horse cult
 with which he was also strongly identified. Freyr
 is also associated with a ship cult based on the
 notion of a phantom vessel, Skidbladnir or
 Skioblaonir, large enough to hold all the gods but
 small enough to fold into a man’s pocket.
 FRIGG
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) or Germanic. Mother
 goddess.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier, until Christianization (circa
 AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS Frija (Germanic).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various around Nordic
 region.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); inscriptions;
 place names.
 The senior AESIR goddess living in Asgard; con
sort of OTHIN and mother of BALDER. Saxo
 implies that she had been the unfaithful spouse
 but generally she was revered as a regal consort
 and “queen of heaven.” The Germanic version of
 her name, Frija, is the origin of Friday. She is
 thought to have been closely concerned with
 childbirth and midwifery. She may also have
 headed a group of shadowy female deities to
 whom carved stones were often erected in pre
Christian Europe (Roman matrones) associated
 with fertility and protection of the household.
 Such stones are generally found in the Rhineland.
 A weeping goddess occasionally described as tak
ing the shape of a falcon (see FREYJA).
 Fu Shen
 God of luck. Chinese. He is often linked in
 iconography with TSAI SHEN, god of wealth, and
 SHOU LAO, god of longevity. Usually depicted
 with his son, and wearing blue robes, which sig
nify his official position.
 Fujin
 God of winds. Shinto [Japan]. Depicted carrying
 a sack on his shoulder which contains the four
 winds.
 Fukurokuju
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven deities
 in Shintoism concerned with fortune. He is
 allegedly a Chinese hermit who lived during the
 Sung dynasty and whose name means happiness,
 wealth and longevity. He is depicted as a little old
 man, bald and with a prominent high forehead.
Futsu-Nushi-No-Kami 99
 He carries a book of sacred teachings tied to his
 staff. Other occasional attributes include a crane,
 deer or tortoise.
 Fulla
 Minor goddess. Germanic. Identified in the sec
ond Merseburg Charm as an attendant of the god
dess FRIGG and possibly her sister.
 Futo-Tama
 Ancestral god. Shinto [Japan]. A significant deity
 in mythology because he took part in the divina
tion and ritual necessary before the process of
 drawing the sun goddess AMATERASU out of her
 cave could begin. He collected together various
 magical objects, pushed forward the perfect
 divine mirror, recited the sacred liturgy and
 begged Amaterasu never again to hide her face.
 The guardian of Prince NINIGI, ancestor of the
 imperial dynasty, Futo-Tama is more specifically
 the ancestor of the Imba clan in Japan.
 Futsu-Nushi-No-Kami
 God of war. Shinto [Japan]. One of two deities
 who made the way clear for Prince NINIGI to
 descend to earth and begin the imperial dynasty.
 A tutelary deity of swordsmen and judoka artists.
 Linked with the god TAKE-MIKA-DZUCHI
NO-KAMI.
6
 G
 Gabija
 Fire goddess. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. She was
 invoked by tossing salt on to a sacred flame.
 Gabjauja
 Corn goddess. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. She
 was degraded to an evil demonic presence after
 Christianization.
 Gad
 God of uncertain status. Western Semitic 
and Punic (Carthaginian). Probably concerned
 with chance or fortune and known from
 Palmyrene inscriptions, and from the Vetus
 Testamentum in place names such as Baal-Gad 
and Midal-Gad. Popular across a wide area 
of Syrio-Palestine and Anatolia in pre
Biblical times. Thought to have been syn
cretized ultimately with the Greek goddess
 TYCHE.
 Gaganaganja (treasury of ether)
 God. Buddhist. One of a group of BODHISATTVAS
 (buddha-designates). Color: yellow, red or gold.
 Attributes: blue lotus, book, jewel, lotus and wish
ing tree in a vase.
 GAIA (earth)
 ORIGIN Greek. Archetypal earth mother. 
KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Gaea; Ge; Terra.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT oracle at Delphi.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Theogony, Hymn to Gaia in
 the so-called Homeric hymns (Hesiod); Aristo
phanes.
 Gaia is an ancient pre-Hellenic goddess who was
 mainly revered in Attica. She is the primordial
 essence of the earth, one of the creations of
 AETHERand Hedera, the primordial beings of the
 cosmos. Through the encouragement of EROS
 she became the mother of PONTOS (sea) and
 OURANOS (heaven). According to tradition,
 through liaison with Ouranos, she also engen
dered the race of TITANS. By consorting with the
 underworld she created the monstrous Typhon.
 Perceived as a placid and resilient goddess gen
erally with some apathy to the goings-on around
 her in the tale of beginnings. She had an oracle at
 Delphi that predated that of APOLLO. Gaia was
 later superseded by other divinities, but she main
tained a role presiding over marriage and the tak
ing of oaths. In the Iliad, Agamemnon cries to
 Zeus: “May Zeus, all highest and first of gods, be
 100
GANESA 101
 witness first, then Gaia and Helios and the Furies
 underground who punish men for having broken
 oaths.”
 In Hellenic times Gaia became Da-meter or
 DEMETER, the corn mother whose daughter is
 KORE, the corn spirit. Her attributes include fruit
 and cornucopiae.
 Gajavahana
 God. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil). A form of SKANDA
 who has an elephant as a vehicle. Mainly from
 southern India. Attributes: cockerel and spear.
 Gal Bapsi (‘hook’ god)
 Local god. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. Worshiped particularly by the Bhils. To
 expiate sins, the penitent thrusts a hook into his
 back and is suspended from it on the day when
 the sun enters Aries.
 Galla
 Minor underworld gods. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Attendants of the
 goddess ERESˇKIGAL. Also Gallu.
 Ganapati (lord of hosts)
 1. God. Hindu (Puranic). The more commonly
 recognized name of the elephant god GANESA,
 particularly favored in western India.
 2. God. Buddhist (Mahayana). The name of a
 deity influenced by the Hindu god Ganesa.
 Depicted riding upon a rat or mouse and carrying
 an assortment of attributes.
 Ganapatihrdaya (the heart of Ganapati)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). The SAKTI
 of GANAPATI.
 Ganaskidi (humpback)
 God of harvests, plenty and of mists. Navaho
 [USA]. He is said to live at Depehahatil, a canyon
 with many ruined cliff dwellings north of San
 Juan. According to tradition he is the apotheosis
 of a bighorn sheep. His priest wears a blue mask
 with no hair fringe but with a spruce crown and
 collar. He has a black bag on his back, filled out
 with a twig frame, that appears as a deformity,
 and he carries a staff.
 Gandha (odor)
 Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. In Lamaism
 one of the group of MATARAS (mothers). Color:
 green. Attribute: conch with sandalwood resin.
 Gandhari (of Ghandhara)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 SASANADEVATAS headed by the goddess SARAS
VATI. May also be a VIDYADEVI.
 Gandha Tara (fragrance-Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color: red.
 Attribute: conch with sandalwood resin.
 GANESA (lord of hosts)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India]. God of
 wisdom and prudence.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa AD400onward
 until present.
 SYNONYMS GANAPATI.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally bronze but
 also stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES late Mahabharata recensions
 and Brihaddharma-Purana etc.
 Ganesa is god of wisdom and art, a benign deity
 generally assumed to offer help when invoked to
102 Ganga
 overcome difficulties. He may have originated as
 a fertility god and as a YAKSA (local forest deity).
 His father is S ˇIVA. His mother, PARVATI, is said to
 have created him from the scurf of her skin. He is
 depicted in human form with an elephant’s head
 (or, less frequently, up to five heads) and a trunk
 (which removes obstacles), sometimes bearing
 one tusk, on a stout or obese body (which con
tains the universe). He has four arms which can
 carry a large number of attributes but particu
larly a shell, a discus, a mace and a water-lily. His
 sacred animal is the bandicoot. He is called upon
 before going on a journey, moving house or open
ing a new business.
 According to one legend his elephant head
 was gained after his mother had put him outside
 the house to guard the doorstep while she took a
 bath. He barred the way to his father whereupon
 S
 ˇiva inadvertently decapitated him. His mother
 vowed to secure a head for him from the first
 passing creature, which happened to be an 
elephant. Another account suggests that Parvati
 took Ganesa to show him off to the gods but that
 SANI (Saturn) burned his head to ashes and the
 elephant’s head was provided to save his life by a
 compassionate VISˇNU.
 Ganesa’s great popularity results in frequent
 appearance in temples devoted to other Hindu
 deities. Sculptures are sometimes painted red. He
 is also a common household guardian made pop
ular by his gentle nature.
 Ganga
 River goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Guardian deity of
 the Ganges. The elder daughter of HIMAVAN and
 MENA, she is the sister of PARVATI and the consort
 of VISˇNU and AGNI. She is also the second consort
 of S ˇIVA. Ganga is regarded as a symbol of purity and
 is frequently depicted with Brahma washing the
 raised foot of VISˇNU TRIVIKRAMA. According to
 tradition she was a heavenly river brought to earth
 and caught by S ˇiva in his hair to soften the shock of
 her fall. She rides on a fish or water monster. Color:
 white. Attributes: fly whisk, lotus and water jar.
 Gangir
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). One of 
the seven daughters of the goddess Baba, known
 chiefly at Lagasˇ. Also, and more properly,
 Hegir-Nuna.
 Garmangabis
 Tutelary goddess. South Germanic. Invoked by
 the Suebi tribe to bring prosperity. She may be
 linked with the north German goddess GEFJON.
 Garuda  (the devourer)
 Archaic sun god and divine vehicle. Hindu
 (Vedic). Originally depicted as a solar deity,
 Garuda evolved into a bird-like human hybrid
 who became the deified mount of VISˇNU. Also a
 chief adversary of nagas (snake-like demons),
 which he devours. In early depictions Garuda has
 a parrot’s beak. Said to have been born from an
 egg, the son of Vinata and KASYAPA. Epithets
 include Amrtaharana, Garutman, Tarksya. Attrib
utes: conch, club, lotus and nectar, but may also
 bear the attributes of Visˇnu. 
2. Mount or vahana of VAJRAPANI. Buddhist.
 Attributes: flower, horse-head, noose, skin and
 staff. Three-eyed and three-headed.
 Gatumdug
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian 
and Babylonian-Akkadian). The daughter of the
 sky god AN, she is the tutelary mother goddess
 of Lagasˇ.
 Gaunab
 Malevolent god of darkness. Khoi (Hottentot)
 [Namibia, southern Africa]. The chief adversary
Gefjon 103
 of the creator god TSUNIGOAB. He was engaged
 in a primordial struggle for supremacy during
 which Tsunigoab was wounded but eventually 
triumphed, consigning Gaunab to the so-called
 “black heaven.”
 Gauri (whitish brilliant)
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). Consort
 of the god VARUNA, said to have been created at
 the churning of the ocean of milk. An epithet of
 PARVATI as a goddess of the corn. Also a SAKTI of
 Mahesvara, a minor aspect of S ˇIVA. Her attendant
 animal is a lion or a wolf. Attributes: fish, forest
 garland, image of GANESA, lotus, mirror, rosary,
 trident and water jar. Three-eyed. Also Varuni.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist. One of eight GAURIS of
 terrible appearance. Attributes: head and noose.
 3. Messenger goddess. Jain [India]. A SASANADE
VATA. Also one of sixteen VIDYADEVIS or god
desses of learning headed by SARASVATI. Color:
 white. Attribute: a hook.
 NOTE: Gauri-Tara is a distinct minor Buddhist
 Mahayana goddess.
 Gautama Buddha See BUDDHA.
 Gayatri
 Personification of a hymn. Hindu. The name of
 a popular hymn in the Rg Veda, dedicated to the
 sun. Also the name of one, possibly the second, of
 the consorts of BRAHMA. 
See also SARASVATI.
 GEB (earth)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Chthonic or earth god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP Old Kingdom
 (circa 2600 BC) to end of Egyptian history (circa
 AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Seb (erroneous).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific but often asso
ciated with tombs.
 ART REFERENCES paintings in Valley of the
 Kings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid and coffin texts;
 New Kingdom religious papyri including the
 Papyrus of Tentamun.
 Geb, the offspring of S ˇU and TEFNUT, is a “third
 generation” deity of the ENNEAD in Heliopolis
 and, as the brother and consort of NUT, becomes
 the father of ISIS and OSIRIS in the Heliopolis
 genealogy. Geb appears on papyri from the New
 Kingdom typically wearing the crown of Lower
 Egypt, lying on the ground with his arms
 stretched in opposite directions: “one to the sky,
 one to the earth.” When drawn with Nut, who is
 a sky goddess, his penis is often erect and
 extended toward her. He may also be accompa
nied by a goose (his sign in hieroglyphic).
 Geb is a vegetation god, frequently colored
 green and with greenery sprouting from him. He
 is also seen as a god of healing, particularly called
 upon for protection against scorpion stings. In a
 less benign context, Geb reputedly snatches the
 souls of the dead and may imprison them against
 passing into the afterlife. He is also a god con
cerned with judgment in the dispute between
 HORUS and SETH. As Horus’s father, he presided
 over his crowning, and therefore continued to
 protect each rightful heir to the crown of Egypt.
 Gefjon
 Goddess of agriculture. Germanic and Nordic
 (Icelandic). One of the AESIR deities and an atten
dant of the goddess FRIGG according to tradition
 mentioned by Snorri in the Edda. She bore four
 giant sons whom she turned into oxen and used
 them to plough a tract of land which was then
 towed out to sea to become Zeeland (Sjaeland).
 She is also said to have founded a royal Danish
 dynasty. Also Gefiun.
104 Gemini
 Geus Urvan
 Gemini See DIOSKOUROI.
 Genius
 God of men. Roman. The personification of 
creativity and strength in mortal males, the
 counterpart of JUNO. Roman religion also 
dictated that every place had its guardian spirit,
 the genius loci.
 Gerra
 God of fire. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Derived from the Sumerian GIBIL, he
 is the son of ANU and ANUNITU and becomes
 largely syncretized with both ERRA and NERGAL.
 Ges ˇtin-Ana
 Chthonic goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 The sister of DUMUZI and consort of Ningisida.
 The so-called “heavenly grape-vine,” this minor
 goddess is involved in the account of Dumuzi try
ing to escape from his fate at the hands of INANA
 and ERESˇKIGAL. In her house he is changed into
 a gazelle before being caught and finally trans
ported to the underworld.
 Ges ˇtu
 Minor god of intellect. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). According to
 legend he was sacrificed by the great gods 
and his blood was used in the creation of
 mankind.
 Geus Tasan
 Cattle god. Persian [Iran]. The creator of cattle.
 Sometimes considered to be an aspect of AHURA
 MAZDA.
 Cattle god. Persian [Iran]. The guardian of cattle
 who appears in the guise of a cow.
 Ghantakarna (ears like bells)
 God of healing. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). An
 attendant of S ˇIVA, worshiped as a guardian against
 diseases of the skin. Attributes: bell with noose,
 and hammer.
 NOTE: there is also a poorly defined goddess
 Ghantakarni.
 Ghantapani (bell in hand)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of the group of
 dhyanibodhisattva (meditation BUDDHAS). An ema
nation of Vajrasattva. Color: white. Attribute: a bell.
 Ghasmari (voracious)
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist. One
 of a group of eight GAURIS. Color: green. Attrib
utes: staff with bell.
 Ghentu
 Minor god. Hindu. Known in northern India as
 the god who “sends the itch.”
 Gibil
 Fire god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). The son of
 AN and KI. By the Akkadian period he becomes
 known as GERRA.
 Gibini
 Plague god. Gishu [Uganda, East Africa]. Associ
ated with the smallpox god ENUNDU, he is pro
pitiated with offerings of vegetables and is
 symbolized by special trees planted near the house.
Giltine
 GOBNIU 105
 Glaucus
 Goddess of death. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. She
 is said to enter the house of a dying person,
 dressed in a white gown, and suffocate them.
 Gish
 God of war. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Known chiefly
 among the Kati people in the southern Hin
dukush. Gish seems partly modeled on the Aryan
 (Vedic) god INDRA (see also INDR). One of the
 offspring of the creator god IMRA, his mother is
 named as Utr; she carried him for eighteen
 months before he wrenched himself from her
 belly, stitching her up with a needle. His consort
 is the goddess SANJU. He slaughters with great
 efficiency but is considered lacking in graces and
 intellect, emerging in a generally boorish light
 (see also THOR). His home is a fortress of steel
 atop a mythical walnut tree propped up by his
 mother which provides nourishment and strength
 for his warriors. The rainbow is a sling with
 which he carries his quiver.
 Gish is associated chiefly with the villages of
 Kamdesh and Shtiwe but has been worshiped
 throughout the Kafir region with the sacrifice of
 hornless oxen, particularly prior to combat. A
 feast was given in his honor if the outcome was
 successful. Also Giwish.
 Giszida
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylonian
Akkadian). See Nin-giszida.
 See also NINGISZIDA.
 Gita
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of a group of Astamataras (mothers). Color: red.
 Attributes: Indian gong and lute.
 Sea god. Roman. 
See also GLAUKOS.
 Glaukos
 Sea god. Greek. Allegedly an impoverished fish
erman who ate a sea-grass with magical proper
ties, dived into the ocean and remained there as a
 guardian deity of fishermen and their nets. 
See also PROTEUS.
 Gleti
 Moon goddess. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. The
 consort of the sun god LISA and the mother of a
 large number of minor astral deities, the gletivi,
 who became the stars of heaven.
 GOBNIU (smith)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). God of skills including ale
brewing.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP early times until
 Christianization, circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Goibniu; GOVANNON (Welsh).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specifically known.
 ART REFERENCES various monumental sculptures
 and inscriptions.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of Kings.
 Gobniu is known chiefly for his skills as a metal
 smith and in brewing the immortal beer of the
 gods. He fashions invincible magic weapons for
 the TUATHA DEDANANN. In his brewing activities
 he uses a vast bronze caldron, a copy of which was
 housed in various sanctuaries and was apparently
 at times associated with the ritual slaughter of
 kings of Ireland. Gobniu forms part of a triad of
 deities, the Na tri dee dana (three gods of skill),
 with Credne, a deity skilful in brazing, and Luchta.
106 Gonaqade’t
 Grannus
 Gonaqade’t
 Sea god. Chilkat [American north Pacific coast].
 By tradition he brings power and good fortune to
 all who see him. He appears in several guises, ris
ing from the water as a gaily painted house inlaid
 with blue and green Haliotis shell, or as the head
 of a huge fish, or as a painted war canoe. Gener
ally depicted in art as a large head with arms, paws
 and fins.
 Gon-Po Nag-Po
 God. Lamaist [Tibet]. See also MAHAKALA. Also
 Bram-zei gzugs-can; mGon-dkar; GUR-GYI
MGON-PO.
 Goraknath
 Guardian god. Hindu. An avatara of S ˇiva, wor
shiped among cow-herders and the founder of
 the gorakhnathi sect in Nepal.
 Govannon
 God of skills. Celtic (Welsh). Son of the goddess
 DON.
 See also GOBNIU.
 Grahamatrka (demon mother)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of the forms
 of VAIROCANA. Attributes: arrow, bow, lotus and
 staff. Three-headed.
 Gramadevata
 Generic term for a local tutelary deity. India. Such
 deities are identified as “not being served by Brah
man priests.” Most are goddesses e.g. CAMUNDA,
 DURGA and KALI. Generally they are invoked in
 small villages where they guard boundaries and
 fields and are represented by a painted stone, but
 they are also to be found in larger towns and cities.
 God of healing. Romano-Celtic (Continental
 Europe). The name appears across a wide area
 generally associated with medicinal springs and
 hot mineral waters, including sites at Aix-la
Chapelle, Grand (Vosges), Trier, Brittany, and as
 far distant as the Danube basin. Grannus became
 syncretized with the Roman god APOLLO as
 Apollo Grannus, and baths were sometimes called
 Aquae Granni.
 Gratiae
 Goddesses. Roman. The counterparts of the
 Greek Charites. Identified with the arts and gen
erally depicted with long flowing tresses, but oth
erwise naked.
 Grdhrasya (face of a vulture)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist.
 Grismadevi (goddess of summer)
 Seasonal goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. Also
 an attendant of SRIDEVI. Usually accompanied by
 a yak. Color: red. Attributes: ax and cup.
 Gugulanna
 Minor underworld deity. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). The consort of the goddess ERESˇKIGAL,
 mentioned as the pretext on which the fertility
 goddess INANA descends to the netherworld.
 Gujo
 Tutelary guardian deity. Kafir [Afghanistan]. A
 god of whom there is nothing other than a pass
ing reference from among the extinct southern
 Hindukush tribe of Pachags. He may have been a
 local consort of the messenger goddess Zhiwu.
Gukumatz
 Gusilim 107
 Sky god. Mayan (Quiche, classical Mesoameri
can) [Guatemalan highlands]. The son of the 
creator gods E QUAHOLOM and E ALOM, and
 equating to the feathered serpent god of Aztec
 religion, QUETZALCOATL.
 Gula (great one)
 Goddess of healing. Mesopotamian (Sumerian
 and Babylonian-Akkadian). Consort of NINURTA.
 Her animal is the dog. She may be synonymous
 with NIN’INSINA. Also mentioned in Hellenistic
 Babylonian times. A Gula temple is described at
 Uruk. Also NINTINUGGA.
 Gul-S ˇes ˇ
 Collective name for goddesses of fate. Hittite.
 They dispense good or evil, life or death. Also
 Hutena (Hurrian).
 Gulsilia Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism became regarded as
 of evil intent, inflicting sickness. Particularly
 known from Bengal.
 Gundari-Myoo 
Japanese Buddhist. The terrific manifestation of
 the DHYANIBUDDHA RATNASAMBHAVA. He bears
 three eyes and fangs. His eight arms and legs are
 decorated with snakes. Attributes include a skull
 on the hair and he stands on a lotus. 
Gunabibi
 Creator goddess. Australian aboriginal. Also known
 as Kunapipi, she is extensively revered by aborigines
 in northern Australia, including the Yolngu people.
 Her cult bears some similarity to that of the Greek
 mother goddess DEMETER and to Tantric cults in
 India. For this reason the cult is thought to have
 been introduced from Asia to Arnhem Land and
 then to other parts of the Australian continent as
 early as the sixth century. Mythology indicates that
 Gunabibi has been perceived as a deity who came
 from the sea or the rivers during the Dreamtime
 but who reigns now over dry land. Among modern
 aborigines she is the subject of esoteric rituals which
 also involve the great serpent Yulunggul with whom
 Gunabibi has been closely involved.
 Gunnodoyak
 Iroquois (North American Indian). A youthful
 heroic deity who was once mortal. He was
 empowered by the spirit of thunder, Hino, to
 conquer the Great Water Snake, enemy of
 humankind. The serpent devoured Gunnodoyak
 but was then slain by Hino, who cut open the
 snake, recovered the body of Gunnodoyak and
 returned him to his rightful place in heaven. 
Gunura
 Deity of uncertain status. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Described vari
ously as the husband of the goddess NIN’INSINA
 and the father of Damu (DUMUZI), but also as the
 sister of Damu.
 Gur-Gyi Mgon-Po
 God of tents. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. A form
 of MAHAKALA usually attended by a man. Color:
 blue. Attributes: club, cup and knife.
 Gusilim (loud voice)
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). 
See also ISˇTARAN.
108 Gwydion
 Gwynn Ap Nudd
 Gwydion
 God of war. Celtic (Welsh). His mother is DON the
 Welsh mother goddess. He allegedly caused a war
 between Gwynedd and Dyfed. He visited the court
 of PRYDERI, son of RHIANNON, in Dyfed, and stole
 his pigs. In the ensuing combat Gwydion used
 magic powers and slew Pryderi. He seems to have
 underworld links, hence the route taken by the
 dead, the Milky Way, was named Caer Gwydion.
 Chthonic underworld god. Celtic (Welsh).
 Known locally from South Wales. The leader of
 the phantom hunt which chases a white stag. He
 equates with HERNE in England and ARAWN in
 more northern parts of Wales.
6
 H
 Ha
 Guardian god. Egyptian. Early deity of the west
ern Sahara referred to as warding off enemies
 (possibly Libyan) from the west. Depicted in
 anthropomorphic form crowned by the symbol of
 desert dunes.
 Hachacyum (our very lord)
 Creator god. Mayan (Lacandon, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The creator of the
 world assisted by three other deities, his consort
 and two brothers, one of whom is Sucunyum, his
 counterpart (or alter ego) in the underworld. Also
 Nohochacyum (our great lord).
 Hachiman
 God of war and peace. Shinto [Japan]. A deity
 whose origins are confused. The name does not
 appear in either of the sacred texts of Shintoism,
 but such a deity was probably worshiped in the
 distant past with the alternative title of Hime
Gami or Hime-O-Kami. The cult center was on
 the southern island of Kyushu at Usa. In modern
 Shintoism, Hachiman originates as a member of
 the imperial dynasty. Named Ojin-Tenno and born
 in AD 200 to the empress Jingu-Kogo, he greatly
 improved the living standards and culture of Japan
 during his remarkable reign. The place of his birth
 was marked by a sanctuary and several centuries
 after his death, a vision of a child KAMI appeared
 there to a priest. The kami identified himself by the
 Chinese ideogram representing the name Hachi
man, and thus the link developed. The site is,
 today, the location of a magnificent shrine, the
 Umi-Hachiman-Gu, where Hachiman has been
 perceived as a god of war. Soldiers departing for
 battle once took with them relics from the shrine.
 Hachiman is also a deity of peace and a
 guardian of human life and, when pacifism dom
inated Japan during the post-war era, he became
 more strongly identified in the latter context.
 Hadad
 Weather god. Western Semitic (Syrian and
 Phoenician). Derived from the Akkadian deity
 ADAD. In texts found at the site of the ancient
 Canaanite capital of Ugarit [Ras S ˇamra] , the
 name of Hadad apparently becomes a substitute
 for that of BAAL. His voice is described as roaring
 from the clouds and his weapon is the thunder
bolt. His mother is the goddess ASˇERAH.
 During Hellenic times he was predominantly
 worshiped at Ptolemais and Hierapolis. His Syr
ian consort is ATARGATIS, who overshadowed him
 in local popularity at Hierapolis. Statues of the
 109
110 HADES
 two deities were carried in procession to the sea
 twice yearly. According to the Jewish writer Jose
phus, Hadad also enjoyed a major cult following
 at Damascus in the eighth and ninth centuries
 BC. By the third century BC the Hadad-Atargatis
 cult had extended to Egypt, when he becomes
 identified as the god SUTEKH. In the Greek tra
dition his consort becomes HERA. 
See also ADAD.
 HADES (the invisible one)
 ORIGIN Greek. God of death.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Aidoneus (Roman); Dis; PLUTOS;
 ORCUS (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT restricted to Pylos.
 ART REFERENCES none specific.
 LITERARY SOURCES Odyssey, Iliad (Homer);
 Theogony (Hesiod).
 Hades is the son of KRONOS and RHEA and may be
 perceived as the chthonic form of ZEUS; he is also
 the consort of PERSEPHONE (KORE). Since all pre
cious metals and stones lie buried in the earth, he
 is also the god of riches. He rides in a black char
iot drawn by four black horses. His home in the
 underworld is the House of Ais. The closely
 guarded gates of his kingdom, also called Hades,
 are identified in the Odyssey as lying beyond the
 ocean at the edge of the world and in the Iliad as
 lying directly beneath the earth. Through Hades
 run the rivers Styx, beside which the gods made
 their hallowed oaths, and Lethe, with its waters of
 forgetfulness. In the Odyssey the rivers are identified
 as the Pyriphlegethon and Kokytos (a tributary of
 the Styx) both of which flow into the Acheron. 
Hades abducts Persephone (Kore), the daugh
ter of DEMETER, and brings her to the under
world to reign as his queen for four months in
 every year. He is depicted as a dark-bearded god
 carrying a two-pronged harpoon or a scepter, and
 a key. He may be called Plutos, although the lat
ter is generally regarded as a distinct deity.
 Hahana Ku (much rains house god)
 Messenger god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerica)
 [Mexico]. According to tradition, when the god
 HACHACYUM decides to send rain he directs
 Hahana Ku to visit the black powder maker MEN
ZABAC. Hahana Ku buys only a small quantity,
 against the wishes of the vendor.
 Hahanu
 God of uncertain function. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Known from pass
ing reference in texts and from inscriptions.
 Haili’laj
 Plague god. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. Particularly associated with
 smallpox. Believed to be so terrible that he is not
 even propitiated with food. He sails in a canoe of
 pestilence with huge sails like those of the white
 man’s ships which brought plague to the Indians.
 Hakea
 Goddess of the underworld. Polynesian, Hawaii.
 Her role was generally shared with the chthonic
 goddess Miru. 
Hala
 Goddess of healing. Kassite [Iraq]. Probably later
 syncretized with the Akkadian goddess GULA.
 Halahala (lord of poison)
 God of poison. Buddhist (Mahayana). A form of
 AVALOKITESVARA. Typically seated on a red lotus
Hanui–o–rangi 111
 with the SAKTI on the left knee. Color: white.
 Attributes: arrow, bow, cup, grass, image of
 AMITABHAon crown, lotus, tiger skin and trident.
 Three-headed and three-eyed.
 Haldi
 Tutelary god. Urartian [Armenia]. Known from
 circa 1000 BC until circa 800 BC.
 Halki (barley)
 Corn god. Hittite and Hurrian. He may also have
 been invoked by beer makers.
 Hamadryades
 Animistic tree spirits. Greco-Roman. Vaguely
 defined female beings whose existence is
 restricted to the individual trees of which they
 are guardians.
 Hamavehae
 Mother goddesses. Romano-Celtic (Rhineland).
 A trio of matres known from inscriptions.
 Hammon
 God of the evening sun. Libyan. An ancient deity
 depicted with ram’s horns.
 Hammu Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu. Locally worshiped by
 the Bhils.
 Han Xiang-zi
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology. Once
 mortal beings, they achieved immortality through
 their lifestyle. Attributes include a basket of flow
ers and a flute. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Hani(s)
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 The attendant of ADAD and linked with SULLAT.
 Hani-Yasu-Hiko
 God of potters. Shinto [Japan]. The consort of
 HANI-YASU-HIME, he is one of the clay deities made
 from the faeces of the primordial goddess IZANAMI.
 Hani-Yasu-Hime
 Goddess of potters. Shinto [Japan]. The consort
 of HANI-YASU-HIKO, she is one of the clay deities
 made from the faeces of the primordial goddess
 IZANAMI.
 Hannahannas
 Mother goddess. Hittite and Hurrian. Described
 as the “great mother.” In the legend of TELEPINU,
 the missing god, she sends a bee to locate him.
 When the bee stings Telepinu to awaken him, the
 god vents his rage on the natural world.
 NOTE: the priestesses of the Phrygian mother
 goddess KYBELE were, according to the Roman
 writer Lactantius, melissai or bees.
 Hansa (goose)
 Minor avatara of VISˇNU. Hindu (Puranic).
 Depicted in the form of a goose.
 Hanui-o-Rangi (father of winds)
 God of winds and weather. Polynesian. He is the
 son of the sky god RANGINUI, who fathered him
112 Hanuman
 on one of his early consorts, Pokoharua, the sis
ter of TANGAROA, the sea god. All the subsequent
 descendants of Hanui-o-Rangi are believed to
 rule over various aspects of the weather. Hanui
 thus fathered Tawhiri, the god of the northwest
 wind, whose son was Tiu. They control the fierce
 storms from the east. The children of Tiu include
 Hine-I-Tapapauta and Hine-Tu-Whenua, the
 deities overseeing the more gentle westerly winds.
 Hine-Tu-Whenua is the mother of Hakona-Tipu
 and Pua-I-Taha, controlling the southern and
 southwesterly gales.
 Hanuman (with large jaws)
 Monkey god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Hanu
man attends RAMA, one of the incarnations of
 VISˇNU, and personifies the ideal and faithful ser
vant. He is the son of PAVANA, the god of winds,
 and is noted for his speed and agility in which
 context he is often worshiped by young men and
 athletes. He leads a mythical forest army of mon
keys, and is depicted as a monkey with a long tail.
 He takes a major role in the Ramayana epic
 searching for, and rescuing, the goddess SITA who
 has been captured by the demon Ravana. He may
 appear trampling on the goddess of Lanka [Sri
 Lanka]. Worshiped particularly in southern India
 but more generally in villages. Color: red. Attrib
utes: bow, club, mane, rock and staff. May appear
 five-headed.
 Hao
 Creator god. Janjero [Ethiopia]. Personified by
 the crocodile and considered to reside in the river
 Gibe. He was propitiated with human sacrifice.
 Hapy
 Fertility god of the Nile flood. Egyptian. Inhab
its caverns adjacent to the Nile cataracts and over
sees the annual inundation of the Nile valley. His
 court includes crocodile gods and frog goddesses.
 There are no known sanctuaries to Hapy. He is
 depicted in anthropomorphic form but androgy
nous, with prominent belly, pendulous breasts
 and crowned with water plants. He may hold a
 tray of produce. At Abydos he is depicted as a
 two-headed goose with human body. 
See also KHNUM.
 Hara (destroyer)
 Epithet of S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic). Also one of the
 EKADASARUDRAS (eleven rudras).
 Hara Ke
 Goddess of sweet water. Songhai [Niger, West
 Africa]. Considered to live beneath the waters in
 tributaries of the river Niger, attended by two
 dragons, Godi and Goru. The spirits of the dead
 are believed to live in a paradise city in the depths
 of the Niger.
 Harakhti
 A form of the god HORUS. Egyptian. The aspect
 of the god who rises at dawn in the eastern sky.
 According to Pyramid Texts, the king is born on
 the eastern horizon as Harakhti, which contra
dicts the more commonly held belief that the king
 is the son of RE, the sun god.
 Hara-Yama-Tsu-Mi
 Mountain god. Shinto [Japan]. Particularly the
 deity of wooded mountain slopes.
 Hardaul
 Plague god. Hindu. A locally worshiped deity
 known particularly in Bundelkhand, northern
Harpokrates 113
 India, as a protector against cholera and consid
ered to have been an historical figure who died in
 AD 1627. Also a wedding god.
 Harendotes [Greek]
 Form of the god HORUS. Egyptian. Under this
 name, Horus specifically guards and protects his
 father OSIRIS in death. He thus becomes associ
ated with sarcophagi and appears frequently in
 coffin texts. Also Har-nedj-itef (Egyptian).
 Hari (yellowish brown)
 Minor incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu
 (Epic and Puranic). Popularized by modern reli
gious movements, Hari is one of the sons of the
 god DHARMA who sprang from the heart of
 BRAHMA. He is most closely linked with KRSNA,
 but he and Krsna also parallel Dharma’s other
 sons, NARA and NARAYANA. Hari can be a more
 generic epithet applied to several Hindu gods.
 Hariti (green or stealing)
 1. Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 One of the group of MATARAS (mothers) who are
 the patrons of children. Considered by some to be
 identical with the goddess Vriddhi. Her consort is
 Pancika, alternatively KUBERA. In her destructive
 aspect she steals and eats children. Particularly
 known from the north and northwest of India.
 Attribute: a child may be held at her hip, some
times being eaten.
 2. Plague goddess. Buddhist. Associated with
 smallpox. Also regarded in some texts as the god
dess of fertility.
 Harmachis [Greek]
 Form of the god HORUS. Egyptian. Harmachis is
 Horus as the sun god. Inscriptions from the New
 Kingdom (circa 1550-1000 BC) identify the sphinx
 at Giza as Harmachis looking toward the eastern
 horizon. Also Har-em-akhet (Egyptian).
 Harmonia
 Goddess of joining. Greco-Roman. Daughter
 of ARES (MARS) and APHRODITE (VENUS) or
 Cytherea. The consort of Cadmus and mother
 of Ino, SEMELE, Agave, Autonoe and Polydorus.
 She is the apotheosis of harmony in life which
 is also displayed in musical euphony. Also
 Hermione.
 Haroeris [Greek]
 Form of the god HORUS as a man. Egyptian. The
 name distinguishes the mature deity from HAR
POKRATES, the child Horus. In this form he
 avenges his father, OSIRIS, and regains his 
kingdom from SETH, his uncle. He is depicted as
 the falcon god. Also Harueris; Har-wer (both
 Egyptian); HARENDOTES.
 Harpina
 River goddess. Greek. Daughter of the river god
 ASOPOS, she was seduced by ARES, who fathered
 Oenomaus (a king said to have reigned near
 Olympia) on her. 
Harpokrates [Greek]
 Form of the god HORUS as a child. Egyptian.
 Generally depicted sitting on the knee of his
 mother, the goddess ISIS, often suckling at the left
 breast and wearing the juvenile side-lock of hair.
 He may also be invoked to ward off dangerous
 creatures and is associated with crocodiles, snakes
 and scorpions. He is generally representative of
 the notion of a god-child, completing the union
 of two deities. Also Har-pa-khered (Egyptian).
114 Harsa
 Harsa (desire)
 Goddess. Hindu. The SAKTI of the god HRSIKESA.
 Harsiese
 Form of the god HORUS. Egyptian. Specifically
 when personifying the child of ISIS and OSIRIS.
 According to the Pyramid Texts, Harsiese per
forms the “opening of the mouth” rite for the dead
 king.
 Harsomtus [Greek]
 Form of the god HORUS. Egyptian. In this 
form Horus unites the northern and southern
 kingdoms of Egypt. He is depicted as a child com
parable with HARPOKRATES. At the Edfu temple,
 he is identified thus as the offspring of Horus the
 elder and HATHOR. Also Har-mau (Egyptian).
 Hasameli
 God of metalworkers. Hittite and Human.
 Invoked by blacksmiths.
 Hasta (hand)
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA or astral goddess;
 daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Hastehogan
 Chief house god. Navaho [USA]. Also a god of
 farming identified with the west and the sky at
 sunset. Regarded as a benevolent deity who aids
 mankind and cures disease. Believed to live in a
 cave system near San Juan. He also has a malev
olent aspect in which he can cast evil spells. His
 priest wears a blue mask, at the bottom of which
 is a horizontal yellow band representing evening
 light, with eight vertical black strokes repre
senting rain. It is decorated with eagle and owl
 feathers.
 Hastsbaka
 Male elder of the gods. Navaho [USA]. Otherwise
 of uncertain status. His priest wears a blue buck
skin mask with a fringe of hair, a spruce collar
 and a scarlet loin cloth with a leather belt deco
rated with silver and with a fox pelt dangling from
 the back. He is otherwise naked and painted
 white. He holds a whitened gourd rattle, which
 may be decorated with spruce twigs, in his right
 hand, and a wand of spruce in his left hand. Also
 Yebaka.
 Hastsebaad
 Chief of goddesses. Navaho [USA]. She is involved
 in rites of exorcism and wields considerable influ
ence. The six goddesses of the tribe all wear iden
tical masks, and in ritual the part of the deity is
 played by a boy or small man wearing a mask
 which covers the entire head and neck, and who
 is almost naked but for an ornate scarf on the hips
 and a leather belt decorated with silver and with
 a fox pelt dangling behind. The skin is painted
 white.
 Hastseltsi
 God of racing. Navaho [USA]. He organizes and
 oversees athletic races. The priest who imper
sonates him has to be a good runner and 
challenges others, using high-pitched squeaking
 calls. If the priest wins, the contender is whipped
 with a yucca scourge. If the contender wins,
 there is no penalty! A fastidious deity who avoids
 contact with any unclean objects. His ceremo
nial mask is a domino shape covering mouth and
 throat with white shells over the eyes and
 mouth.
Hastseoltoi
 HATHOR 115
 Goddess of hunting. Navaho [USA]. She may be
 seen as the consort of the war god NAYENEZGANI.
 She carries two arrows, one in each hand, and
 wears a quiver and bow case. Navaho tradition
 dictates that no pictures are drawn of this deity. 
See also ARTEMIS.
 Hastseyalti (talking elder)
 Chief of gods. Navaho [USA]. Not regarded as a
 creator deity, but god of the dawn and the eastern
 sky. Also guardian of animals in the hunt and,
 possibly, of corn. Regarded as a benevolent deity
 who aids mankind and cures disease. He also has
 a malevolent aspect in which he can cast evil
 spells. His priest invokes him in a ceremonial
 dance wearing a white mask with a symbol con
sisting of a corn stalk with two ears. At the bottom
 is a horizontal yellow band representing evening
 light, with eight vertical black strokes represent
ing rain. Also Yebitsai.
 Hastsezini
 God of fire. Navaho [USA]. A “black” god who is
 reclusive and generally apart from other deities.
 He is the inventor of fire and of the fire drill and
 board. His priest dresses in black and wears a
 black mask with white-bordered eye and mouth
 holes. The ceremonial fire drill is made from
 cedarwood.
 Hatdastsisi
 God. Navaho [USA]. A benevolent deity, he cures
 disease through the medium of his priest, who
 flagellates the affected parts. His home is believed
 to be near Tsegihi in New Mexico. Sacrifices to
 Hatdastsisi are made up from reeds decorated
 with a design representing the blue yucca plant,
 which is buried in the earth to the east of the
 tribal lodge. His priest wears a buckskin mask
 decorated with owl feathers, and a spruce collar,
 but otherwise ordinary Navaho dress with white
 buckskin leggings.
 HATHOR
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Mother goddess and goddess
 of love.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP from Old Kingdom
 (circa 2700 BC), but possibly earlier, until the
 end of Egyptian history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none significant.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Dendara, Giza, Thebes.
 ART REFERENCES wall paintings from the major
 sanctuary at Dendara; sculptures including an
 outstanding composition from the temple of
 King Menkaure at Giza; reliefs in the temple of
 Queen Hatsheput at Thebes; other contempo
rary sculpture and painting; sistrum rattles, etc. 
LITERARY SOURCES Book of the Dead, Harris
 Papyrus etc.
 Hathor is a major Egyptian deity, with a benign
 motherly nature and invariably depicted, in one
 form or another, as a cow goddess with strong
 sky associations. Her father is the sun god RE and
 she is often described as the mother of all Egypt
ian pharaohs. In early times evidence suggests
 that she was regarded as the mother of HORUS,
 but once the OSIRIS legend gained widespread
 popularity, she came to bear a complex protective
 rather than maternal relationship with Horus. In
 a conflicting tradition stemming from the cult
 center of Horus at Edfu in Upper Egypt, Hathor
 is also drawn as Horus’ consort. In the legend of
 the “eye of Re,” she shows a potentially destruc
tive nature, but this is an isolated instance.
 In art she may be depicted as a cow, as in the
 sculpture of her browsing among papyrus plants
 and suckling the pharaoh Amenhotep II from the
 Hathor sanctuary of Tuthmosis III, or in human
116 Hatmehyt
 Haubas
 form wearing a hairstyle which mimics the
 Mesopotamian “omega” symbol (see NINHUR
SAG˜A). In the latter depiction she wears a crown
 which consists of a sun disc surrounded by the
 curved horns of a cow. She is prominent thus in
 many of the royal tombs in the Valley of the
 Kings at Thebes where she is seen as a funerary
 deity strongly linked with Re when he descends
 below the western horizon. Hathor is also repre
sented, not infrequently, in the capitals of archi
tectural columns. Like Ninhursag˜a she is
 associated with lions. Other symbols include the
 papyrus reed and the snake.
 Hathor is also a goddess of love and sexuality,
 and is associated with the erotic aspects of music
 and dancing. Her priestesses carried sistrum rat
tles and menat “necklaces,” both of which are
 percussion instruments used in cultic rites. The
 pharaoh was the “son of Hathor” and every
 Egyptian princess automatically became a priest
ess of the goddess. Many pharaonic tombs and
 magical papyri include description of “seven
 Hathors” who predict the fate of a child at birth
 and these deities were often called upon in
 spells.
 Hathor enjoyed great popularity in Greco
Roman culture and many elements in the makeup
 of the goddess APHRODITE are modeled on her
 Egyptian style.
 Hatmehyt (she who leads the fishes)
 Fertility and guardian goddess of fish and fisher
men. Egyptian. Local deity whose cult center was
 at Mendes [Tell el-Ruba] in the Nile delta. She 
is the consort of the ram god BANEBDJEDET.
 Depicted anthropomorphically, or as a fish.
 Hatthi
 Plague goddess. Hindu. Particularly associated
 with cholera in northwestern India.
 Local god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian. Known
 from inscriptions.
 Hauhet
 Primordial goddess. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD, representing chaos, she is
 coupled with the god HEH and appears in anthro
pomorphic form but with the head of a snake.
 The pair epitomize the concept of infinity. She is
 also depicted greeting the rising sun in the guise
 of a baboon.
 Haukim
 Local god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian. Possibly
 a deity concerned with arbitration and the law.
 Haumea
 Mother goddess. [Hawaiian.] She is the daughter
 of PAPATUANUKU, the primordial earth mother,
 and is revered by many people of Polynesia and
 by the Maori of New Zealand. Her more notable
 children include PELE, the volcano goddess of
 Hawaii, and HI’AIKA, the goddess of the dance.
 As a deity responsible for birth, Haumea pos
sesses a magical wand that she used at the time of
 creation to engender fruit trees and fish. From
 time to time she uses it to replenish stocks.
 Mythology also identifies her as a heroine who
 saved herself and her consort from enemies at
 the time of creation by hiding in a breadfruit tree
 and fending off the attackers with poisonous sap
 and wood splinters.
 Haumiatiketike
 Vegetation god. Polynesian (including Maori).
 The deity concerned with wild plants gathered as
 food, and particularly with the rhizome of the
HEBAT 117
 bracken which has been traditionally relied on by
 the Maori in times of famine or need.
 Haurun
 Chthonic or earth god. Western Semitic
 (Canaanite). Haurun was introduced to Egyptian
 religion probably by émigré workers who related
 him to the sculpture of the Sphinx at Giza. Hau
run was known locally as a god of healing.
 Hayagriva (horse neck)
 1. The most significant minor incarnation of the
 god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). He prob
ably originated as a horse god and later became an
 avatara associated with wisdom and knowledge.
 At the behest of BRAHMA, Hayagriva rescued the
 Vedas, stolen by two demons, from the bottom of
 the primeval ocean. Depicted in human form with
 the head of a horse and, according to the texts,
 eight hands. Attributes: book (Veda), horse’s mane
 and rosary. Also the attributes of Visˇnu. Also
 Hayasirsa, Vadavavaktra.
 2. Patron god of horses. Buddhist-Lamaist
 [Tibet]. One of a group of DHARMAPALA with ter
rible appearance and royal attire, he is considered
 to be an emanation of AKSOBHYA or AMITABHA.
 His SAKTI is MARICI. Color: red. Attributes: horse
 heads, staff and trident, but also arrow, ax, banner,
 bow, club, flames, flower, image of Aksobhya or
 Amitabha on the crown, lotus, noose, prayer wheel,
 skin, snakes, sword and trident. Three-eyed.
 Haya-Ji
 God of winds. Shinto [Japan]. Particularly the
 fierce god of whirlwinds and typhoons. In
 mythology he carried back to heaven the body of
 AME-WAKA-HIKO (the heavenly young prince)
 after he had been slain by an arrow from the
 “heavenly true deer bow.”
 Hayasum
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Baby
lonian-Akkadian). Known from texts, but of
 uncertain function.
 Hayasya
 1. Horse god. Hindu. Probably identical with
 Hayagriva.
 2. Horse goddess. Buddhist. Attribute: the head
 of a horse.
 Hazzi
 Mountain god. Hittite and Hurrian. Invoked in
 Hittite treaties as a deity responsible for oaths. A
 deity of the same name was worshiped by the
 Hurrians, but not necessarily in the same con
text.
 He Xian-gu
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, she was
 once a mortal being who achieved immortality
 through her lifestyle. The tutelary goddess of
 housewives and the only female deity among the
 group. Attributes include a ladle, lotus and peach
 fruit.
 He Zur (the great white one)
 Baboon god. Egyptian. Known from the Old
 Kingdom and regarded as a manifestation of
 Thot.
 HEBAT
 ORIGIN Hittite and Hurrian [Anatolia]. Patron
 goddess and mother goddess. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP 2000 BC or earlier
 until 1300 BC or later. 
118 Hebe
 Hegemone
 SYNONYMS possibly Hepatu; HANNAHANNAS;
 KUBABA.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Hattusas [Boghazköy and
 Yazilikaya]; Arinna; other sanctuaries within the
 Hittite Empire extending down into the north
 Syrian plain.
 ART REFERENCES seals and seal impressions;
 sculptures; monumental rock carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform and hieroglyphic
 texts from Boghazköy, etc. 
Hebat was adopted from the Hurrian pantheon
 as the principal goddess of state religion in the
 Hittite Empire, though because of name changes
 her precise role is not always clear. She is
 described as the “great goddess.” In some texts
 she is also the “sun goddess of ARINNA” (a reli
gious center near Boghazköy thus far lost to
 archaeology) but her relationship to the sun god,
 in one fragmentary text called Kumarbi and
 described as the king of the gods, god of right
 and justice, is unclear. She is more intimately
 linked with the weather god TESˇUB, “king of
 heaven, lord of the land of Hatti” and god of bat
tle who, according to the same legend, displaced
 KUMARBI as king of the gods.
 Hebat is often drawn as a matronly figure, with
out weapons, but generally in company with a
 lion. In a famous procession of gods carved on
 rock faces at Yazilikaya, the leading goddess is
 called Hepatu.
 NOTE: these sanctuaries were often created
 where vertical rock facades suitable for carving
 relief sculptures existed near water.
 Hebe
 Goddess of youth. Greek. The daughter of ZEUS
 and HERA and the consort of HERAKLES. The
 cup-bearer of the gods of Olympus. In the Roman
 pantheon she becomes JUVENTAS.
 Greek. The name given to one of the GRATIAE in
 the traditions of Athens. 
Heh
 Primordial god. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD, representing chaos, he is
 coupled with the goddess HAUHET and appears in
 anthropomorphic form but with the head of a
 frog. The pair epitomize the concept of infinity.
 He is also depicted greeting the rising sun in the
 guise of a baboon. In another context he is
 depicted kneeling, frequently on a basket which
 represents the hieroglyph for universality. He
 may carry the ankh symbol and hold palm rubs in
 each hand.
 HEIMDALL (earth-watcher)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). Of uncertain status
 but probably a guardian deity.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier, through to Christianization
 (circa AD 1100). SYNONYMS Mardall; possibly
 Rig; “the white god.”
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known but probably the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); place names.
 Heimdall is an enigmatic deity to whom there is
 considerable reference in the codices. He is
 drawn as the sentry or guardian, a tireless
 watcher over Asgard, needing no sleep and able
 to see in the darkest of nights. According to
 mythology, he lives beside the rainbow bridge
 connecting Asgard with the other realms. His
 symbol is the Gjallarhorn which is used to alert
 the gods to the onset of Ragnarok (doom). He
Helen 119
 came also to be associated with guardianship of
 the world tree (Yggdrasil). Said to be born of
 nine giantesses, the waves of the sea (see AEGIR)
 and in some legends he is the father of mankind.
 The Voluspa (Codex Regius) begins with the
 words: “Hear me, all ye hallowed beings, both
 high and low of Heimdall’s children.” Heimdall
 has close links with FREYJA and his synonym
 Mardall parallels Mardoll (see Freyja). He may
 even have been a VANIR god. Said to have fought
 a sea battle with LOKI.
 HEKATE
 ORIGIN Greek. Goddess of the moon and of
 pathways.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Hecate.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Lagina.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Theogony (Hesiod) etc.
 Hekate is the daughter of Perses and Asteria
 and is subsequently honored by ZEUS as a god
dess. She is the mother of Scylla and is specifi
cally a goddess of pathways and crossroads
 traveled by night. Artistic representations show
 her carrying torches. Where paths met, a triple
 figure of Hecate rose from masks placed at the
 junction. Offerings were left in roadside shrines
 and at junctions. In later times she tended to
 become syncretized with the goddess ARTEMIS.
 Hekate is also the patron of Medea and other
 witches, and in some parts of Thessaly she was
 worshiped by occult bands of female moon
worshipers. In variations of the DEMETER leg
ends Hekate plays a part in the return of
 PERSEPHONE from HADES. She is also invoked
 as a bestower of wealth and favor.
 Heket
 Frog goddess concerned with birth. Egyptian.
 Minor deity who by some traditions is the con
sort of HAROERIS (see also HORUS). Texts refer to
 a major sanctuary at Tuna et-Gebel which has
 been totally obliterated. The remains of another
 sanctuary survive at Qus in Upper Egypt. In the
 Pyramid Texts she is referred to as a deity who
 eases the final stages of labor. Depicted as wholly
 frog-like or as a frog-headed human figure, often
 found on amulets or other magical devices asso
ciated with childbirth.
 Hel
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Germanic and
 Nordic (Icelandic). The daughter of LOKI and
 the giantess Angrboda, and the sibling of both
 the Midgard worm who will cause the sea to flood
 the world with the lashings of his tail, and of Fen
rir, the phantom wolf who will swallow the sun, at
 Ragnarok. She is queen of the otherworld, also
 known as Hell, and she takes command of all who
 die, except for heroes slain in battle, who ascend
 to Valhalla. In some mythologies she is depicted
 as half black and half white. She was adopted into
 British mythology.
 Helen
 Goddess [Greek] associated with the city of Troy.
 Helen is frequently alleged, in Homeric tradition,
 to have been a mortal heroine or a demigoddess.
 In his Catalogues of Women Hesiod, the Greek
 contemporary of Homer and author of the
 definitive Theogony of the Greek pantheon, con
founds tradition by making Helen the daughter
 of ZEUS and Ocean. Other Greek authors con
temporary with Hesiod give Helen’s mother as
 NEMESIS, the Greco-Roman goddess of justice
 and revenge, who was raped by Zeus. The
120 HELIOS
 Hemantadevi
 mythology placing Helen as a demigoddess
 identifies her mother as Leda, the mortal wife of
 Tyndareus, also seduced by Zeus who fathered
 POLLUX as Helen’s brother. However Hesiod
 strongly denied these claims.
 Homeric legend describes Helen’s marriage to
 King Menelaus of Sparta and her subsequent
 abduction by Paris, said to have been the catalyst
 for the Trojan War. After her death, mythology
 generally places her among the stars with the
 Dioscuri (sons of Zeus), better known as Castor
 and Pollux, the twins of the Gemini constella
tion. Helen was revered on the island of Rhodes
 as the goddess Dendritis.
 See also DISKOURI.
 HELIOS
 ORIGIN Greek. Sun god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC in
 Greece (but an adoption from much earlier
 times), until Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Rhodes.
 ART REFERENCES Colossus of Rhodes (lost); other
 sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES Odyssey (Homer); Theogony
 (Hesiod).
 Helios is not specifically a Greek deity, since
 the concept of a sun god was more or less 
universal in the ancient world, but in the
 Theogony he is identified as the son of 
HYPERION and his sister Euryphaessa. He drives
 the chariot of the sun by day and descends
 beneath the ocean at night. On Rhodes,
 allegedly the site of the largest Greek statue of
 a deity, the so-called Rhodes “Colossus” cast in
 bronze, there was a celebrated festival of Helios
 during which a chariot with four horses was
 driven off a cliff, symbolizing the setting of the
 sun into the sea.
 Goddess of winter. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 One of several seasonal deities. Also an attendant
 of Sridevi. Usually accompanied by a camel.
 Color: blue. Attributes: cup and hammer.
 Hendursaga
 God of the law. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). He was titled by Gudea of
 Lagasˇ “herald of the land of Sumer.”
 HEPHAISTOS
 ORIGIN Greco-Roman, perhaps preceded by Etr
uscan. God of fire and smithies.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Hephaestus (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT sanctuaries on Lemnos and,
 from circa 450 BC, in Athens opposite the
 Acropolis on the hill above the Agora. Also a
 significant shrine at Ephesus.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad, Odyssey (Homer);
 Theogony (Hesiod).
 One of the twelve major deities of Olympus,
 Hephaistos is one of the sons of HERA who, in
 disappointment at having borne a child with
 deformed legs, threw him to earth where he was
 taken in and cared for by the people of Lemnos.
 In spite of physical disabilities, which set him
 apart from the other, physically perfect, deities
 of Olympus, Hephaistos draws on peculiar pow
ers in the making of metal objects, which often
 possess magical qualities. He fathered the race of
 arcane KABEIROI blacksmith gods. The Hephaistos
 cult may have originated on the island of Lemnos
 with a tribal group the Greeks knew as Tyrsenoi.
 Hephaistos consorted briefly with ATHENA, who
 subsequently gave birth to Erichthonos, the first
HERAKLES 121
 king of Athens. In the Odyssey he is said to be the
 consort of APHRODITE. In the Iliad he is married
 to CHARIS (Grace). He made a famous shield for
 Achilles which was said to reflect the world and all
 that was in it.
 HERA
 ORIGIN Greek. The wife of Zeus.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC, but
 probably earlier, until Christianization (circa
 AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Plataea (Boeotia) and others.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad (Homer); Theogony
 (Hesiod).
 As the long-suffering, but also jealous and quar
relsome, wife of the philandering and all-powerful
 god ZEUS, HERA adopts a position in the Greek
 pantheon that is at times ambiguous. The rela
tionship with Zeus is incestuous since she is also
 the eldest daughter of KRONOS and therefore
 Zeus’s full sister. Mythology views her both as an
 independent and wilful senior goddess, and as a
 tragi-comic figure. Her marriage involves a degree
 of subterfuge, persuading Zeus by means of a
 magic girdle momentarily to forget his preoccupa
tions with the Trojan War. In another piece of leg
end Zeus turns himself into a cuckoo so that he
 may fly into Hera’s bosom. Who seduced whom
 thus remains ambiguous. Curiously, neither in lit
erature nor in art is Hera perceived as a mother
 goddess. She seems to have borne only a limited
 number of Zeus’s named children. The most
 prominent is ARES, yet he is also the least favored
 by the god. Other minor offspring included HEBE
 and EILEITHYIA. Hera relates to Zeus in three 
distinct “phases”—consummation in which she is
 pais the girl; wedding and fulfillment as teleia; and
 separation when she becomes chera.
 As stepmother to Zeus’s illegitimate children,
 Hera displays a jealous and malicious character,
 directing her anger at HERAKLES and DIONYSOS
 in particular. In a fire festival practiced in Boeo
tia to the “great Daedala,” wooden images were
 burned to enact a legend whereby Plataea, one of
 Zeus’s concubines, was stripped naked, humili
ated and immolated by a jealous Hera.
 During a New Year festival, the Heraia, to
 honor Hera, her priestesses were carried to the
 sanctuary on a cart drawn by oxen which also
 presumably contained a statue of the goddess.
 Traditionally a women’s games festival dedicated
 to Hera was also held on Olympus every four
 years.
 HERAKLES (the fame of Hera?)
 ORIGIN Greek. Heroic god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC, but
 probably originating from a prehistoric model,
 until Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Heracles (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and carvings; pillars
 of Herakles.
 LITERARY SOURCES Herakles (Euripedes); Iliad
 and Odyssey (Homer); Catalogues (Hesiod);
 Dodekathlos (Peisandros); votive inscriptions.
 Herakles probably originates out of a diffusion of
 heroic myths about hunting spirits, as a shaman who
 protected the tribe against wild animals and who
 possessed the necessary supernatural skills to ensure
 a safe outcome to the chase. This foundation may
 then have drawn on role models such as NINURTA,
 found in ancient Near Eastern culture. Herakles is
 a son of ZEUS and HERA and the consort of
 Deianeira (destroyer of man). He is a heroic god of
 massive stature and prodigious appetite (see also
 THOR) who performs many feats of strength and
122 Hercules
 courage, including the liberation of PROMETHEUS.
 He is a slayer of lions and engages in combat with
 mythical creatures comparable to those found on
 Mesopotamian seals. He thus destroyed the seven
headed serpent and hunted many others. He is fre
quently depicted wearing a lion skin. His exploits
 include the cleansing of the Augean stables so as to
 earn a tenth part of the cattle of the sun, the catch
ing of the Stymphalos birds, the temporary cap
ture of Cerberus, the hound of Hades, and the
 picking of the golden apples of immortality.
 Herakles became the god-ancestor of the
 Dorian kings. Alexander the Great had an image
 of him incorporated into his coinage. According
 to one legend, Deianeira contrived Herakles’s
 death in a fit of jealous pique with a robe tainted
 with the poisoned blood of a centaur, ironically
 from one of Herakles’s own arrows, which
 inflicted such torture upon him that he commit
ted suicide by self-immolation on Mount Oita
 (near Trachis). In a conflicting myth Herakles
 slew his wife and children at Thebes. Herakles
 enjoyed cult centers in many places, with the
 notable exception of Crete. There were major
 sanctuaries on Thasos and on Mount Oita, where
 every four years the death of the god was marked
 by a sacrificial fire festival. A similar rite is known
 from Tarsos in Cilicia for the god Sandon. The
 festivities were often marked by huge feasts. In
 Roman culture he becomes HERCULES.
 Hercules
 God. Roman. 
See also HERAKLES. 
Heret-Kau
 Underworld goddess. Egyptian (Lower). Very lit
tle is known of Heret-Kau. She was recognized
 chiefly in the Old Kingdom (27th to 22nd 
centuries BC), apparently concerned with
 guardianship of the deceased in the afterlife and
 sometimes appearing as a figurine in attendance
 on ISIS in building foundations.
 Hermaphroditos
 God(dess) of uncertain status. Greek. The off
spring of HERMES and APHRODITE and the lover
 of the water nymph Salmakis. Tradition has it that
 their passion for one another was so great that
 they merged into a single androgynous being.
 HERMES
 ORIGIN Greek. Messenger of the gods. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC but
 probably earlier until Christianization (circa AD
 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Pheneos (Arcadia); other
wise few specific places, but strongly associated
 with wayside shrines and cairns.
 ART REFERENCES probably certain prehistoric
 phallic figures marking boundaries; Parthenon
 frieze; Hermes of Praxiteles in Olympia.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad, Odyssey (Homer);
 Theogony (Hesiod).
 Hermes is the son of a nymph, MAIA, who con
sorted with ZEUS. He was born in the Arcadian
 mountains, a complex, Machiavellian character
 full of trickery and sexual vigor. His most signif
icant consort is APHRODITE. He is a god of
 boundaries, guardian of graves and patron deity
 of shepherds. Perversely, he patronizes both her
alds and thieves and is a bringer of good fortune.
 According to legend Hermes as a day-old infant
 stole the cattle of his elder brother APOLLO while
 playing a lyre. Legend accords to him the inven
tion of fire, also generated on his first day. Her
mes’s skills at theft were put to use by the other
 gods of Olympus, who sent him to liberate ARES
HERYS ˇAF 123
 from a barrel and to bring King Priam of Troy
 into conciliatory meeting with the Greek war
 hero Achilles after the death of Hector.
 Classical art depicts Hermes wearing winged
 golden sandals and holding a magical herald’s staff
 consisting of intertwined serpents, the kerykeion.
 He is reputedly the only being able to find his way
 to the underworld ferry of Charon and back
 again. Hence he was sent to bring both PERSE
PHONE and Eurydice back from Hades. In com
pany with other Greek gods, Hermes is endowed
 with not-inconsiderable sexual prowess which he
 directs toward countryside nymphs and with
 which he also maintains a healthy and thriving
 population of sheep and goats! He was often rep
resented in wayside shrines in the form of a phal
lic pillar or post which was regarded as a funerary
 monument, hence the role of grave guardian.
 Hermod
 Messenger god. Nordic (Icelandic). One of the
 sons of the Viking god OTHIN, he was sent to
 Hel on a mission to obtain the release of the god
 BALDER, who had been slain by the blind god
 Hod. The mission failed because only one crea
ture in the world, a hag (probably LOKI in dis
guise), failed to weep at Balder’s loss and Hermod
 returned empty-handed. It may be argued that
 Hermod is less a deity than a demigod hero mod
eled on the Danish king of the Beowulf Saga. Also
 Heremod; Hermoth.
 Hermus
 River god. Roman. A sanctuary has been identi
fied at Sardis.
 Herne
 Chthonic underworld god. Celtic (British) or
 Anglo-Saxon. Known locally from Windsor
 Great Park, Berkshire, England, he equates
 with the Welsh deities GWYNN AP NUDD and
 ARAWN and is, according to legend, the leader
 of the phantom hunt. Depicted with stag-like
 antlers.
 Heros
 Chthonic underworld god. Thracian. Depicted
 as a horseman. His image regularly appears on
 funerary stelae.
 Heruka
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of the most pop
ular deities in the pantheon, though probably
 owing much to the influence of the Hindu god
 S
 ˇ IVA. Originally an epithet for another Hindu
 god, GANESA, but in Buddhism seen as an ema
nation of AKSOBHYA. His SAKTI is NAIRAMATA and
 the product of their liaison is nirvana (eternal
 bliss). Typically he stands upon a corpse. In north
eastern India, Heruka is worshiped as a compas
sionate god. Attributes: club, flayed human skin,
 image of Aksobhya, jewel, knife, fifty skulls,
 sword, staff and teeth.
 HERYS ˇAF (he who is upon his lake)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Primeval deity associated both
 with Osiris and Re.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP from circa 2700BC,
 and probably earlier, until the end of Egyptian
 history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Arsaphes (Plutarch).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Hnes (Ihnasya el-Medina)
 near Beni Suef.
 ART REFERENCES reliefs and sculptures including
 a gold figurine held by the Boston Museum of
 Fine Arts.
 LITERARY SOURCES stela from Hnes later moved
 to Pompeii (Naples Museum).
124 Hesat
 Herys ˇaf is a ram god said to have emerged from the
 primeval ocean, possibly recreated in the form of a
 sacred lake at Hnes, the capital of Lower Egypt for
 a time at the beginning of the third millennium
 (during the First Intermediate Period). The god is
 depicted with a human torso and the head of a ram
 wearing the atef crown of Lower Egypt.
 Herysˇaf began as a local deity but took on
 national importance as the soul (ba) of RE, and of
 OSIRIS. Herysˇaf’s sanctuary was enlarged by
 Rameses II and the god is said to have protected
 the life of the last Egyptian pharaoh when the
 Persian and later Macedonian dominations
 began. He eventually became syncretized with
 HERAKLES in Greco-Roman culture and Hnes
 became known as Herakleopolis.
 Hesat
 Goddess of birth. Egyptian. Minor guardian of
 pregnant and nursing mothers whose milk, the
 “beer of Hesat,” nourishes humanity. Identified in
 some texts as the mother of ANUBIS. Depicted as
 a cow.
 HESTIA
 ORIGIN Greek. Goddess of hearth and home.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC but
 probably earlier and through until Christian
ization (circa AD 400). SYNONYMS Histie.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT local household shrines.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Hymn to Aphrodite (Homer);
 Phaedra (Plato).
 Hestia is a minor goddess in the Greek pantheon,
 but one who enjoyed importance in individual
 households. One of the daughters of KRONOS and
 RHEA, her adherence to the fireside prevented
 her from joining the procession of gods described
 in Plato’s Phaedra. On oath she remained virginal
 following the notion that fire is phallic and that
 she was wedded faithfully to the sacred hearth
 fire. By tradition maiden Greek daughters tended
 the household hearth. Hestia was conventionally
 offered small gifts of food and drink.
 Hetepes-Sekhus
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Egyptian. A minor
 deity accompanied by a retinue of crocodiles. As
 one of the manifestations of the vengeful “eye of
 RE,” she destroys the souls of the adversaries of
 the underworld ruler OSIRIS. Depicted as a cobra
 or anthropomorphically with a cobra’s head.
 Hevajira
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A BODHISATTVA
 (buddha-designate) and an emanation of AKSOB
HYA. The Tantric form of HERUKA and the Bud
dhist equivalent of the Hindu god S ˇiva Nataraja.
 His SAKTI is NAIRAMATA or VAJRAVARAHI and he
 may appear dominating the four MARAS (the
 Hindu gods BRAHMA, VISˇNU, S ˇIVA and INDRA).
 Color: blue. Attributes: bell, bow, hook, image of
 Aksobhya on crown, jewel, lotus, prayer wheel,
 wine glass. He holds a skull in each hand and an
 assortment of other weapons. Three- or eight
headed, from two to sixteen arms and two or four
 legs; three-eyed.
 Hexchuchan
 God of war. Mayan (Itza, classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of several to whom the resin
 copal was burned before starting a battle. He may
 have been a tribal ancestor.
 Hi’aika
 Goddess. Hawaiian. The daughter of HAUMEA
 and younger sister of PELE, the volcano goddess,
 Hi’aika is the mistress of the dance and especially
 of the hula. Separate traditions identify her with
Hina 125
 LAKA, the god of the hula and the son of KANE,
 the god of light; and with a goddess, Na Wahine,
 the daughter of the primordial creator principle
 KEAWE. The hula was designed to give a formal
ized structure to the enactment of myths and
 among the favorite topics is the romance between
 Pele and the hero Lohiau. According to mythol
ogy Hi’aika was entrusted with a mission to find
 Lohiau on Pele’s behalf and to bring him back to
 her, a mission that subsequently enflamed the
 jealousy of Pele over her sister’s developing rela
tionship with Lohiau, and brought about his
 death in Pele’s fiery lava.
 Hi-Hiya-Hi
 Sun god. Shinto [Japan]. One of a number of
 minor sun deities, engendered from the blood of
 the god KAGU-TSUCHI and worshiped in the
 mountain sanctuary of the fire KAMIS, Kono-Jinja.
 In Japan certain older people still worship the
 sun. They go outside at sunrise, face east and bow,
 clapping their hands.
 Hiisi
 Tree god. Pre-Christian Karelian [Finland]. Said
 to reside in pine forests. After Christianization
 he was degraded to a troll.
 Hikoboshi
 Astral god. Shinto [Japan]. The consort of the
 star goddess AME-NO-TANABATA-HINE-NO
MIKOTO. The two are, according to mythology,
 deeply in love. Their festival was merged with
 the Tibetan Bon festival of the dead, the Ullum
bana. Also Kengyu-Sei.
 Hiko-Sashiri-No-Kami
 God of carpenters. Shinto [Japan]. One of several
 minor deities involved in the building of a sacred
 hall of great beauty, used to entice the sun god
dess Amaterasu from her cave. Linked with the
 god TAOKI-HO-OI-NO-KAMI.
 Hilal
 Moon god. Pre-Islamic Arabian. Specifically the
 deity of the new moon.
 Hi’lina
 Tribal god. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. The personification of the thun
derbird known to many Indian tribes. The noise
 of the thunder is caused by the beating of its
 wings, and when it opens its eyes there is light
ning. The thunder clouds are its cloak.
 Himavan (snowy)
 Mountain god. Hindu. The personification of
 the Himalaya and considered to be the father of
 PARVATI and GANGA. His consort is MENA. Also
 Himavat.
 See also HIMAVAN.
 Himerus
 God of desire. Greco-Roman. Member of the
 Olympian pantheon and attendant on APHRODITE
 (VENUS).
 Hina
 Moon goddess. Polynesian [Tahiti]. In local 
traditions the daughter of the god TANGAROA and
 creatrix of the moon, which she governs. She lives
 in one of its dark spots representing groves of trees
 which she brought from earth in a canoe and
 planted. She is also represented as the consort of
 Tangaroa. Hina probably evolved in Tahiti from
 the Polynesian underworld goddess HINE-NUI
TE-PO. Also SINA (Samoa); Ina (Hervey Islands).
126 Hina-Uri
 Hinglaj(-Mata)
 Hina-Uri
 Moon goddess. Polynesian. Also known as
 HINA, Ina or SINA, she is the sister of MAUI and
 the consort of Irewaru. Tradition has it that she
 can manifest herself in two forms according to
 the lunar phases. Her role is associated with fer
tility and her cult may have been imported from
 Asia, since SIN is the name of a western Asiatic
 moon god also closely associated with fertility
 rites.
 Hine-Ahu-One (maiden formed of the
 earth)
 Chthonic goddess. Polynesian (including Maori).
 Engendered by the god TANE when he needed a
 consort because, with the exception of the pri
mordial earth mother PAPATUANUKU, all the exist
ing gods of creation were male. Tane created her
 out of the red earth and breathed life into her. She
 became the mother of HINE-ATA-UIRA.
 Hine-Ata-Uira (daughter of the sparkling
 dawn)
 Goddess of light. Polynesian (including Maori).
 The daughter of the creator god TANE and HINE
AHU-ONE. She did not remain a sky goddess but
 descended into the underworld, where she
 became the personification of death, HINE-NUI
TE-PO.
 Hine-Nui-Te-Po (great woman of the
 night)
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Polynesian
 (including Maori). Originally she was HINE-ATA
UIRA, the daughter of TANE and HINE-AHU
ONE, but she descended to rule over the
 underworld. She is depicted in human form but
 with eyes of jade, hair of seaweed and teeth like
 those of a predatory fish.
 Mother goddess. Hindu. Locally worshiped in
 northern India and particularly in Baluchistan.
 Hinkon
 Hunting god. Tungus (Siberian). Revered as the
 lord of all animals and controller of the chase.
 Hi-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
 Fire god. Shinto [Japan]. The deity whose birth
 caused the death by burning of the primordial
 goddess IZANAMI after which the eight thunders
 sprang from her corpse.
 Hiranyagarbha (golden egg)
 Creator god. Hindu (Vedic). Identified in the
 opening of the Rg Veda, as the god of the golden
 seed emerging from the cosmic egg. The halves
 of the shell become sky and earth, and the yolk
 becomes the sun. The embryo impregnates the
 primordial waters.
 Hiruko
 Minor sun god. Shinto (Japan). Identified as hav
ing been engendered after the sun and moon.
 Probably eclipsed by AMATERASU.
 Hittavainen
 Hunting god. Pre-Christian Karelian (Finnish).
 Guardian deity of hare-hunters.
 Hlothyn
 Goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). A less common
 name for the goddess Fjorgynn, noted in the
 Trymskvoia from the Poetic Edda. The mother of
 THOR.
HODER
 Horagalles 127
 Ho-Musubi-No-Kami
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). The blind god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier through to Christianization
 (circa AD 1100). 
SYNONYMS Hod, Hodur.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known, but probably the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose 
Edda (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); runic
 inscriptions.
 Hoder is one of the less well-defined of the Norse
 AESIR gods whose chief claim to notoriety lies in
 that he is responsible, in two separate narratives
 (Snorri’s and Saxo’s), for the death of the god
 BALDER. In Snorri’s Icelandic version Hoder is per
suaded by LOKI to hurl a piece of mistletoe at Balder
 (the only thing from which he is not protected): it
 turns into a lethal spear. According to Snorri, Hoder
 may even represent an agent of HEL. Saxo’s Danish
 account has Hoder and Balder contesting the hand
 of the goddess NANNA. She eventually weds Hoder,
 who then slays Balder with a magic sword. Hoder
 himself is slain by his arch-enemy, the god VALI.
 Hoenir
 God. Nordic (Icelandic) Identified in the Voluspa
 (Poetic Edda) as the priest of the Viking gods who
 handles the “blood wands” i.e. divines future
 events. Some authors believe Hoenir to be a
 hypostasis of the god OTHIN, particularly con
cerned with giving the human race senses and
 feelings. Also known in north Germanic culture.
 He is said to have fled to Vanaheim after the great
 battle between the AESIR and VANIR gods.
 Hokushin-O-Kami
 Astral deity. Shinto [Japan]. The apotheosis of
 the “little bear,” Ursa Minor.
 Fire god. Shinto [Japan]. One of a number of fire
 KAMIS who are honored in special Hi-Matsuri fes
tivals. The sacred fire can only be generated by a
 board and stick and is regarded as a powerful
 purifier in Shintoism. The most celebrated tem
ple of the fire kamis is on Mount Atago near
 Kyoto; worshipers are drawn to it from all over
 Japan to obtain charms as protection against fire.
 Ho-No-Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 Fire god. Shinto [Japan]. One of a number of fire
 KAMIS who are honored in special Hi-Matsuri fes
tivals. The sacred fire can only be generated by a
 board and stick and is regarded as a powerful puri
fier in Shintoism. The most celebrated temple of
 the fire kamis is on Mount Atago near Kyoto to
 which worshipers are drawn from all over Japan to
 obtain charms as protection against fire.
 Honus
 God of military honors. Roman. Depicted as a
 youthful warrior carrying a lance and cornucopia.
 Ho-Po
 River god. Taoist (Chinese). The so-called
 “Count of the River,” the deity who controls all
 rivers but particularly the Yellow River, and who
 is the subject of an official cult and sacrifice.
 According to tradition he achieved immortality
 by weighing himself down with stones and
 drowning himself. He received an annual sacrifice
 of a young girl until the end of the Shou Dynasty
 circa 250 BC. Also Hebo; Ping-Yi.
 Horagalles
 Weather god. Lappish. The local embodiment of
 the Nordic (Icelandic) god THOR. Depicted as a
 bearded figure carrying a pair of hammers.
128 Horkos
 Horkos
 God of oaths. Greek. The son of ERIS (strife).
 HORUS [Greek] (the high one)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Sky god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 end of Egyptian history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Har (Egyptian); HAROERIS; Har-pa
khered or Harpokrates (Greek); HARSIESE. Also
 Har-nedj-itef or Harendotes (Greek); Har-mau
 or HARSOMTUS (Greek); HARAKHTI; Har-em
akhet or HARMACHIS (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT universal throughout areas
 of Egyptian influence but particularly Mesen
 [Edfu] in Upper Egypt; Behdet in the delta;
 Nekhen or Hierakonpolis (Greek) [Kom el
Ahmar]; Khem or Letopolis (Greek) [Ausim];
 also at Buhen close to the second Nile cataract;
 Aniba in lower Nubia.
 ART REFERENCES pre-dynastic monuments;
 sculptures throughout Egyptian period. 
LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; coffin texts,
 etc.
 Horus is one of the most universally important
 gods in the Egyptian pantheon attested from the
 earliest recorded period. By tradition born at
 Khemmis in the Nile delta region, Horus’s father
 was the dead OSIRIS, his mother was ISIS, but a
 complex genealogy recognized him distinctly as
 Horus, Horus the child (HARPOKRATES) and
 Horus the elder. In legend he was the first ruler
 of all Egypt after an eighty-year struggle for
 supremacy with his brother and rival SETH.
 Horus’s symbol is the falcon and he is generally
 depicted either wholly as a hawk or in human
 form with a falcon’s head. In some places the tra
dition by which his mother hid him in the papyrus
 marshes of the delta is recognized by depicting a
 falcon standing atop a column of papyrus reeds.
 He is also recognized as the “eye of Horus”—a
 human eye embellished with a typical Egyptian
 cosmetic extension and subtended by the mark
ings of a falcon’s cheek. As Horus the child, he is
 typically drawn naked and with fingers in mouth.
 Horus is a form of the sun god. The alternative
 name Harakhti translates “Horus of the horizon”
 and he is sometimes depicted as a sun disc mounted
 between falcon’s wings. He is also the symbol of
 the god kings of Egypt. In early dynastic times the
 ruler was a “follower of Horus” but by 3000 BC he
 became Horus in life and Osiris in death. 
As Harpokrates, Horus is depicted naked and
 being suckled on Isis’s knee and he often appears
 on amulets extending protection against lions,
 crocodiles, snakes and other dangerous animals.
 As the adult son of Isis, Haroeris, he performed
 the “opening of the mouth” ceremony on his dead
 father, Osiris, and avenged his death, regaining
 the throne of Egypt from Seth. Horus can also be
 the son of Horus the elder and HATHOR.
 The “eye of Horus” arises from the legendary
 incident in which Seth tore out Horus’s eye,
 which was later restored by his mother. The sym
bol can represent security of kingship, perfection
 and protection against the evil influence of Seth.
 Hotei
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven gods of
 fortune known in Shintoism. He is depicted with
 a large belly and dressed in the robes of a Bud
dhist priest. Attributes include a fan and a large
 sack on his shoulder which “never stops to give,
 despite continuous demand.”
 Hotr(a) (invoker)
 Minor goddess of sacrifices. Hindu (Vedic). She
 is invoked to appear on the sacrificial field before
 a ritual and is particularly identified with the act
 of prayer. Usually associated with the goddess
 SARASVATI.
Hours
 Huang Ti 129
 Underworld goddesses. Egyptian. The twelve
 daughters of the sun god RE. They act in concert
 against the adversaries of Re and control the des
tiny of human beings in terms of each person’s life
 span, reflecting the supremacy of order and time
 over chaos. The Hours are sometimes repre
sented on the walls of royal tombs in anthropo
morphic form with a five-pointed star above the
 head. Also Horae (Greek).
 Hrsikesa (lord of the senses)
 God. Hindu. Minor avatara of VISˇNU. His SAKTI
 is HARSA.
 HSI WANG MU (queen of the western
 heaven)
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). Goddess of longevity.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 times until present. 
SYNONYMS Xi Wang Mu.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Chinese culture.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and untranslated.
 One of the oldest deities known in China, she may
 have originated as a plague goddess depicted with
 feline fangs and tail. Under Taoism she became
 more benign in nature, identified as both governing
 the length of mortal life and granting the boon of
 longevity and, in some instances, immortality. Her
 home is in the western Chinese K’un Lun moun
tains or, alternatively, in the Hindukush, where she
 is accompanied by five jade ladies. According to
 tradition she visited the earth on two occasions,
 once in 985 BC to the emperor Mu, and again in the
 second century BC to the emperor Wu Ti.
 She is the ruler of the west and is associated
 with the autumn, the season of old age. She is
 also identified in some texts as the golden mother
 of the tortoise, the animal which embodies the
 universe but which is also the dark warrior sym
bolizing winter and death. Her sacred animal is
 the crane, which is the Chinese symbol of
 longevity (it is often incorporated into funeral rit
uals). She is also said to be represented by the
 mythical phoenix.
 Hu
 God personifying royal authority. Egyptian. One
 of several minor deities born from drops of blood
 emitting from the penis of the sun god RE (see
 also SIA). Hu epitomizes the power and command
 of the ruler.
 Huaca
 Spirit being. Inca (pre-Columbian South Amer
ica) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of a natural
 object such as a rock or a place of local impor
tance such as a spring. It is uncertain whether the
 principle is one of animism (when a deity takes
 on different natural shapes at will) or anímatism
 (when an object is a supernatural being in its 
own right).
 Huanacauri
 Guardian spirit. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of a special
 spindle-shaped stone sited near Cuzco which pro
tected the Inca royal family and also featured
 strongly in the maturation rites of male Inca ado
lescents. Also Wanakawri.
 Huang Ti
 Astral god. Chinese. Allegedly a deified emperor,
 the so-called “yellow emperor,” who rules the
 moving as distinct from dark heavens, the latter
130 Hubal
 being presided over by the god PAK TAI. He is
 attributed with giving mankind the wheel.
 Hubal
 Local tutelary and oracular god. Pre-Islamic
 Arabian. An anthropomorphic figure of the deity
 in red carnelian still stands in the holy city of
 Mecca.
 Huban
 Tutelary god. Elamite [Iran]. Equating with the
 Sumerian ENLIL.
 Huehuecoyotl (old coyote)
 Minor god of sexual lust. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Huehuecoyotl-Coyotlinahual (coyote his
 disguise)
 Minor god of feather workers. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Huehuetotl (old god)
 God of fire. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Associated with paternalism and one of the
 group classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Huiracocha See VAIRACOCHA.
 HUITZILPOCHTLI (blue hummingbird
 on left foot)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Sun god, patron god of the Aztec nation.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750, but
 probably much earlier, to circa AD 1500.
 SYNONYMS Blue Tezcatlipoca.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tenochtitlan [Mexico City].
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures, murals, codex
 illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 The tutelary god of the Aztecs who also regarded
 him as a war god. He is the southern (blue) aspect
 or emanation of the sun god TEZCATLIPOCA, the
 so-called high-flying sun, and the head of the
 group classed as the Huitzilpochtli complex. He
 is regarded, in alternative tradition, as one of the
 four sons of Tezcatlipoca. His mother is the
 decapitated earth goddess COATLICUE, from
 whose womb he sprang fully armed. He slaugh
tered his sister (moon) and his 400 brothers
 (stars) in revenge for the death of his mother,
 signifying the triumph of sunlight over darkness.
 By tradition he led the people from their ances
tral home in Aztlan (perhaps in the state of
 Nayarit) with the promise of securing a great
 empire. He appeared to them in the form of an
 eagle clutching a serpent in its talons and stand
ing atop a cactus growing on a rocky island. This
 was Tenochtitlan, on the site of which Mexico
 City now stands.
 The Great Temple of Coatepec was dedicated
 to the cosmic battle. In ritual Huitzilopochti was
 fed on human hearts taken from captives, the
 blood of which was said to cool his heat; several
 wars were instigated to gain sacrificial material.
 For the origin of the name “blue hummingbird
 on left foot,” see TEZCATLIPOCA.
 Huixtocihuatl (lady of Huixtorin)
 Goddess of salt-makers. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the TLALOC complex, generally
 involved with rain, agriculture and fertility.
Hun Hunapu
 Hyakinthos 131
 Creator god. Mayan (Yucatec and Quiche, classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The father of
 HUNAPUand Ix Balan Ku. According to the sacred
 Mayan text Popol Vuh, he was decapitated during
 a football game and his head became lodged in the
 calabash tree which bore fruit from that day.
 Hunab Ku
 Creator god. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. The greatest deity in the
 pantheon, no image is created of Hunab Ku since
 he is considered to be without form. His son is the
 iguana god, ITZAM NA, and he may have become
 the Mayan counterpart of the Christian god.
 Hunapu
 Creator god. Mayan (Yucatec and Quiche, classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. According to the
 sacred text Popol Vuh, the son of HUN HUNAPU
 and the twin brother of Ix Balan Ku. Tradition has
 it that, like his father, he was decapitated in a his
toric struggle with the underworld gods and sub
sequently became the sun god, while his sibling is
 the apotheosis of the moon.
 Hunaunic See CHAOB.
 Hung Sheng (holy one)
 Guardian god. Chinese. A deity who protects
 fishing boats and their crews against danger at
 sea in the Southern Ocean. His role is similar to
 that of the goddess KUAN YIN. Little is known of
 the origin of Hung Sheng, but he was allegedly a
 mortal who died on the thirteenth day of the sec
ond moon, which falls two days before the spring
 equinox when the sea dragon king, Lung Wang,
 is believed to leave the ocean and ascend into the
 heavens. The god is propitiated with cakes made
 from the first grain of the year, on the fifth day of
 the fifth month and in some traditions he is seen
 as an aspect of the sea dragon king.
 Hunhau
 God of death. Mayan (Yucatec and Quiche, clas
sical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the sev
eral “lords of death” listed in the codices who rule
 the underworld, Mictlan. Hunhau is generally
 depicted with canine attributes, or with the head
 of an owl. 
See also YUM CIMIL. Also God A.
 Hurabtil
 God of uncertain status. Elamite [Iran]. Known
 only from passing mention in Akkadian texts. Also
 Lahurabtil.
 Huracan
 Creator god. Mayan (Quiche, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Guatemalan highlands]. Having
 created the world, he fashioned the first humans
 from pieces of maize dough. The counterpart of
 the Yucatec HUNAB KU.
 Huvi
 God of hunting. Ovimbundu [central Angola,
 West Africa]. All meat is kept in front of his
 shrines, which are decorated with poles capped by
 skulls. He is propitiated by dance and offerings,
 presided over by a priesthood.
 Hyakinthos
 God of vegetation. Greek. An ancient pre-Home
ric deity known particularly from Amyklai (pre
Dorian seat of kingship at Sparta). He is beloved by
132 Hygieia
 Hyperion
 APOLLOwho perversely kills him with a discus and
 changes him into a flower. At Amyklai the bronze
 of Apollo stands upon an altar-like pedestal said to
 be the grave of Hyakinthos and, prior to sacrifice
 being made to Apollo, offerings to Hyakinthos
 were passed through a bronze door in the pedestal.
 Hygieia
 Goddess of health. Greek. The daughter of
 ASKLEPIOS, the physician god of healing. Hygieia
 was also a remedial drink made from wheat, oil
 and honey. She is depicted as Hygieia-Salus in a
 marble group sculpture in the Vatican, with
 Asclepius (the Roman god of healing) and the
 snake, which she is touching.
 Hymenaios
 God of marriage. Greco-Roman. Member of the
 Olympian pantheon and attendant on APHRODITE
 (VENUS). Depicted with wings and carrying a
 torch, and invoked at the wedding ceremony.
 God of primordial light. Greek. A pre-Homeric
 deity, one of the race of TITANS whose consort is,
 according to some texts, THEA and who is the
 father of HELIOS and SELENE.
 Hypnos
 God of sleep. Greek. One of the sons of the god
dess of the night NYX and the brother of
 THANATOS.
 Hypsistos
 Local tutelary god. Greco-Roman. Known from
 the region of the Bosphorus circa 150 BC until AD
 250. As late as the fourth century AD there are
 mentions in texts of hypsistarii in Cappadocia, who
 seem to have been unorthodox, Greek-speaking,
 Jewish fringe sectarians. The word hypsistos occurs
 in the Septuagint version of the Vetus Testamentum
 and means “almighty.”
6
 I
 Ialonus
 God of meadows. Romano-Celtic (British and
 Continental European). Known from inscriptions
 at Lancaster (Ialonus Contrebis) and Nimes.
 Iapetos
 God. Greek. One of the sons of OURANOS
 (heaven) and a member of the TITAN race which
 clashed with the Olympian gods. He is the father
 of the heroes Atlas and PROMETHEUS.
 Icauna
 River goddess. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Guardian
 deity of the river Yonne [Brittany].
 Icci
 Animistic spirits. Siberian. 
See also URUN AJY TOYON.
 Iccovellauna
 Water goddess. Celtic (Continental European).
 Known only from inscriptions.
 IDUNN
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) and possibly Ger
manic. Keeper of the apples of immortality.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier until Christianization (circa
 AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS Idun (German); Iduna.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known, though possibly
 the subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri).
 Little is recorded in mythology. Idunn is the con
sort of BRAGI, the poet god, and she guards the
 golden apples of eternal youth for the gods of
 Asgard. She was abducted by LOKI and handed
 over to the giant Thiassi as payment for the build
ing of Valhalla. When the gods began to age, Loki
 assisted in recovering Idunn with her vital fruit.
 She reflects a northern version of the ancient
 symbolism of a deity who guards the life-sustain
ing fruit of heaven.
 Ifa
 God of wisdom. Yoruba [western Nigeria, West
 Africa]. An oracular deity who, according to tra
dition, lives in a sanctuary in the holy city of Ile
 Ife but who is called on by the tutelary god,
 OLDUMARE, for advice. He is the father of eight
 children, all of whom became paramount chiefs.
 133
134 Ifru
 At one time he is said to have left the earth where
upon famine and plague descended. His wisdom
 is gained through the implements of divination,
 namely palm nuts.
 Ifru
 God. Roman-North African. A rare example in
 this region of a named deity. Known from an
 inscription at Cirta [Constantine, Algeria].
 Igalilik
 Hunting spirit. Inuit [North American]. He trav
els the icy wastes with a kitchen strapped to his
 back which includes a pot big enough to carry a
 whole seal. It boils as he carries it.
 Igigi
 Collective name of a class of gods. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). The group
 of younger sky gods in the pantheon headed by
 ENLIL (ELLIL). They are often described in the
 texts in conjunction with the ANUNNAKI.
 Ignerssuak (great fire)
 Sea god. Inuit [North American]. One of a
 group of generally benevolent deities. Numbers
 of Ignerssuak are thought to surround mariners
 and the entrance to their home is on the sea
 shore.
 Ih P’en
 Chthonic fertility god. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The deity concerned
 with the growth of plants, and consort of the bean
 goddess IX KANAN. He is also god of family life,
 property and other wealth. The couple are
 invoked as a single personality with the sacrifice
 of turkeys and chickens at sowing time. Ih Fen
 may be represented sowing maize seed.
 Ihoiho
 Creator god. Polynesian [Society Islands]. Before
 Ihoiho there was nothing. He created the
 primeval waters on which floated TINO TAATA,
 the creator of mankind.
 Ihy
 God of music. Egyptian (Upper). Minor deity
 personifying the jubilant noise of the cultic
 sistrum rattle generally associated with the 
goddess Hathor. The son of HATHOR and
 HORUS. Particularly known from the Hathor
 sanctuary at Dendara. Depicted anthropomor
phically as a nude child with a side-lock of hair
 and with finger in mouth. May carry a sistrum
 and necklace.
 Ikal Ahau
 Chthonic god of death. Mayan (Tzotzil, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Perceived as a diminu
tive figure who lives in a cave by day but wanders
 at night attacking people and eating raw human
 flesh. He is also considered to inhabit Christian
 church towers in Mexico and is probably person
ified by vampire bats.
 Ikatere
 Fish god. Polynesian. The son of Punga and
 grandson of TANGAROA, the sea and creator god,
 he is revered in various regions of Polynesia as 
the progenitor of all life in the sea, especially 
fish. His brother is Tu-Te-Wanawana, the deity
 responsible for the well-being of lizards, snakes
 and other reptiles. When fierce storms arose 
at the time of creation under the control of
I’lena 135
 TAWHIRIMATEA, the god of winds, mythology
 records that Tu-Te-Wanawana went inland to
 escape the devastation while Ikatere took to the
 safety of the sea. The incident became known as
 the schism of Tawhirimatea and has resulted in an
 eternal conflict between TANE(MAHUTA) the for
est god and Tangaroa, the sea god.
 Ikenga (right forearm)
 God of fortune. Ibo [Nigeria, West Africa]. A
 benevolent deity who guides the hands of
 mankind. He is depicted wearing a horned head
dress, and carrying a sword and a severed head.
 He is invoked as a household guardian.
 Iksvaku
 Creator god. Hindu (Vedic). One of the ancestral
 dynasty of sun gods or ADITI.
 Iku-Ikasuchi-No-Kami
 God of thunder. Shinto [Japan]. The most signif
icant of the eight thunder deities which emerged
 from the corpse of IZANAMI after she was burned
 to death.
 IL
 ORIGIN Canaanite [northern Israel, Lebanon and
 Syrian coastal regions]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC, and
 probably earlier, until circa 200 BC or later.
 SYNONYMS EL (Hebrew); LATIPAN; Tor-’Il.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Ugarit (Ras S ˇamra), but also
 generally throughout areas of Canaanite influ
ence.
 ART REFERENCES possibly a limited number of
 seals and stone reliefs.
 ˇamra.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ugaritic texts from Ras
 S
 Il is the model on which the northern Israelite
 god, El, may have been based. The supreme
 authority, morally and creatively, overseeing the
 assembly of gods. The god to whom BAAL is ulti
mately answerable. According to legend he lives
 in royal surroundings in a remote place lying at
 the confluence of two rivers. A stele found at Ras
 S
 ˇamra has a seated god with bull horns which
 may depict Il or Baal.
 Ila
 Minor god(dess) of sacrifices. Hindu (Vedic). She
 is invoked to appear on the sacrificial field before
 a ritual. Usually associated with the goddess SARAS
VATI, Ila is linked with the sacred cow and her epi
thets include “butter-handed” and “butter-footed.”
 Ilaalge
 Local god. Western Semitic (Nabataean). Wor
shiped at Al-Ge [el-Gi in Wadi Musa, in the Ara
bian desert].
 Ilabrat
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). The attendant and minister of state of the
 chief sky god ANU.
 Ilat
 Rain god. Pokot and Suk [Uganda and western
 Kenya, East Africa]. The son of the creator god
 TORORUT. According to legend, when his father
 calls on him to fetch water Ilat always spills some,
 which descends to earth as rain.
 I’lena (rain woman)
 Animistic spirit. Koryak [Siberia]. The consort of
 the creator spirit “universe” or TENANTO’MWAN.
136 Ilmarinen
 Immat
 Ilmarinen
 Sky god. Pre-Christian Finnish. A weather god
 who places the stars in the sky. Also a guardian
 deity of travelers and a smith-god who educated
 man in the use of iron and forging.
 Ilyapa
 Weather god. Inca (pre-Columbian South Amer
ica) [Peru, etc]. Also perceived as a thunder god, he
 became syncretized with Santiago, the patron saint
 of Spain. The Indians called Spanish firearms
 Ilyapa. Also Inti-Ilyapa; Coqi-Ilya; Illapa; Katoylla.
 lm
 Storm god. Mesopotamian. The cuneiform gen
erally taken to refer to a storm god and therefore
 probably meaning either ISˇKUR (Sumerian) or
 ADAD (Akkadian).
 Imana
 Creator god. Burundi [East Africa]. He engen
dered the first man, Kihanga, who descended
 from heaven on a rope. Symbolized by a lamb or
 a young ram, he is also thought to speak through
 the roar of the bull.
 Imiut
 Minor chthonic god. Egyptian. One of the atten
dant deities of the necropolis, he is linked with
 ANUBIS, and in pre-dynastic times was repre
sented by a skin hung on a pole.
 Immap Ukua
 Sea goddess. Inuit [eastern Greenland]. The
 mother of all sea creatures and invoked by fisher
men and seal-hunters. 
See also SEDNA.
 Demonic god. Kafir [Afghanistan]. A deity to
 whom sacrifices were addressed in the Ashkun
 villages of southwestern Kafiristan. Legend has it
 that Immat carries off twenty virgin daughters
 every year. A festival includes blood sacrifice and
 dances by twenty carefully selected young priest
esses.
 Imporcitor
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. The deity con
cerned with harrowing the fields.
 IMRA
 ORIGIN Kafir [Afghanistan—southern Hin
dukush]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP unknown origins
 and continuing locally today.
 SYNONYMS MARA (Prasun region).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly at Kushteki.
 ART REFERENCES large wooden sculptures. 
LITERARY SOURCES Robertson G.S. The Kafirs of
 the Hindukush (1896); Morgenstierne G. Some
 Kati Myths and Hymns (1951).
 Supreme Kafir creator god who generated all
 other deities by churning his breath to life inside
 a golden goatskin. Other legendary sources have
 him taking his paramount position through guile
 from among an existing pantheon and possibly
 superseding an earlier creator god, MUNJEM
 MALIK. His mother was said to be a giantess with
 four tusks. Imra is a sky god who lives among
 cloud and mist and who is responsible, at least in
 part, for cosmic creation. He positioned the sun
 and moon in the heavens. He is the ancestor of all
 Prasun tribal chiefs. His sacred animal is the ram
 which was sacrificed regularly, as was the cow and,
 less frequently, the horse. Figures of the god are
 crudely anthropomorphic. The main sanctuary
INANA 137
 to Imra, at a small town called Kushteki, was
 destroyed in the early 1900s, but was an imposing
 and ornately carved wooden structure. Other
 smaller shrines survive, scattered throughout the
 region.
 Imra is generally perceived as a beneficent
 teacher who has endowed mankind with various
 gifts including cattle, dogs, wheat, the wheel and
 the element iron. He also has a destructive side to
 his nature, causing floods and other havoc.
 Ina’hitelan
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The father of cloud man YA’HALAN, he is per
ceived as a supervisor of the skies and reindeer are
 sacrificed to him.
 INANA (queen of heaven)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. God
dess of fertility and war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS Inninna; ISˇTAR [Akkadian]; Nin-me
sar-ra (lady of a myriad offices)
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Unug [Warka]; also Erbil
 and Nineveh.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, reliefs, votive stelae,
 glyptics, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts, particularly
 the Gilgamesˇ Epic and Inana’s Descent and the
 Death of Dumuzi; temple hymns, etc.
 The paramount goddess of the Sumerian pan
theon. Though not technically a “mother god
dess,” she constitutes the first in a long line of
 historically recorded female deities concerned
 with the fertility of the natural world. Inana is
 also a warrior goddess. She is the daughter of the
 moon god NANNA and sister of UTU and ISˇKUR.
 In alternative tradition, she is the daughter of AN.
 Her attendant is the minor goddess NINSˇUBUR,
 and her champion is the mythical hero Gilgamesˇ.
 Of her many consorts, the most significant is the
 vegetation god DUMUZI. She becomes the hand
maiden of An, the god of heaven. She is also iden
tified as the younger sister of the underworld
 goddess ERESˇKIGAL. She is the tutelary deity of
 the southern Mesopotamian city of Unug (Uruk),
 where her sanctuary is the Eanna temple.
 Inana is usually depicted wearing a horned
 headdress and tiered skirt, with wings and with
 weapon cases at her shoulders. Her earliest sym
bol is a bundle of reeds tied in three places and
 with streamers. Later, in the Sargonic period, her
 symbol changes to a star or a rose. She may be
 associated with a lion or lion cub and is often
 depicted standing atop a mountain. She may be
 embodied in the sacred tree of Mesopotamia,
 which evolved into a stylized totem made of wood
 and decorated with precious stones and bands of
 metal.
 Originally Inana may have been goddess of the
 date palm, as Dumuzi was god of the date harvest.
 Her role then extended to wool, meat and grain
 and ultimately to the whole of the natural world.
 She was also perceived as a rain goddess and as the
 goddess of the morning and evening stars. She
 was worshiped at dawn with offerings, and in the
 evening she became the patroness of temple pros
titutes when the evening star was seen as a harlot
 soliciting in the night skies. In less commonly
 encountered roles she is goddess of lighting and
 extinguishing fires, of tears and rejoicing, of
 enmity and fair dealing and many other, usually
 conflicting, principles.
 According to legend, ENKI, who lives in the
 watery abyss or Abzu beneath the city of Eridu,
 was persuaded while drunk, and through Inana’s
 subterfuge, to endow her with more than a hun
dred divine decrees, which she took back to Unug
 in her reed boat and which formed the basis of the
 Sumerian cultural constitution.
138 Inara
 Inana is one of three deities involved in the pri
mordial battle between good and evil, the latter
 personified by the dragon Kur. She is further
 engaged in a yearly conflict, also involving her
 consort Dumuzi, with Eresˇkigal. She descends to
 the underworld to challenge Eresˇkigal and finds
 herself stripped naked and tried before the seven
 underworld judges, the ANUNNAKI. She is sen
tenced and left for dead for three days and nights
 before being restored at the behest of Enki, the
 god of wisdom, who creates two beings, Kur-gar
ra and Gala-tur-ra, to secure her release and to
 revive her by sprinkling her with the food and
 water of life.
 Inara
 Minor goddess. Hittite and Hurrian. Daughter of
 the weather god TESˇUB. In the legendary battle
 with the dragon Illuyankas she assists her father to
 triumph over evil.
 Inari (rice-grower)
 God(dess) of foodstuffs. Shinto [Japan]. The pop
ular name of a god(dess) worshiped under the
 generic title Miketsu-No-Kami in the Shi-Den
 sanctuary of the imperial palace, but rarely else
where. The deity displays gender changes, devel
ops many personalities and is revered extensively
 in Japan. Inari is often depicted as a bearded man
 riding a white fox but, in pictures sold at temple
 offices, (s)he is generally shown as a woman with
 long flowing hair, carrying sheafs of rice and
 sometimes, again, riding the white fox. Inari sanc
tuaries are painted bright red, unlike most other
 Shinto temples. They are further characterized by
 rows of wooden portals which form tunnels lead
ing to the sanctuary. Sculptures of foxes are pro
lific (an animal endowed, in Japanese tradition,
 with supernatural powers) and the shrines are
 decorated with a special device, the Hoju-No
Tama, in the shape of a pear surrounded by small
 flames. Often identified with the food goddess
 TOYO-UKE-BIME.
 Inazuma
 Goddess of lightning. Shinto [Japan]. The so
called consort of the rice. In certain regions when
 lightning hits a rice field bamboos are erected
 around the spot to signify that it has been sancti
fied by the fire of heaven. Also Ina-Bikari (light of
 rice) and Ina-Tsurubi (fertility of rice).
 Indr
 Tutelary and weather god. Kafir [Afghanistan].
 The brother of GISH and father of DISANI and
 Pano. Probably derived from the more widely
 recognized Aryan god INDRA, Indr is known
 chiefly from the Waigal and Prasun areas of the
 southern Hindukush. It is generally assumed that
 he was ousted from major importance by the god
 IMRA. Indr is also a god of wine who owns sub
stantial vineyards and is associated in south
 Nuristan with wine rituals (the annals of Alexan
der the Great suggest that he met with wine
drinking “worshipers of DIONYSOS” in the
 Hindukush).
 In the Ashkun region of southwestern Kafiris
tan, a famous vineyard near the village of Wamais
 is sacred to Indr. Also Inder.
 INDRA (possibly meaning “mighty”)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India]. Weather god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC and
 possibly earlier until present day. 
SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures in metal and stone;
 reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda and other texts.
Intercidona 139
 One of the most important of the Vedic deities. It
 is uncertain if he originated as a weather god or as
 a solar deity. The Rg Veda identifies him with the
 bull and he is considered to be related to the Hit
tite weather god TESˇUB. He is thus also god of
 fertility and war. In the later Vedas he is described
 as the son of DYAUS PITAR and PRTHIVI. His con
sort is INDRANI and his sons are JAYANTA, Mid
husa, Nilambara, RBHUS and RSABHA.
 In later Hinduism he is a dikpala (guardian) of
 the eastern direction.
 2. In Buddhism Indra is a dikpala with the color
 yellow, but of lesser importance than the Hindu
 god.
 3. In Jainism Indra is a head of various heavens
 but, again, of lesser importance.
 Indrani
 Goddess of wrath. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic).
 Daughter of Puloman, a demonic figure killed by
 the god INDRA, and the SAKTI and consort of Indra.
 One of seven MATARAS (mothers) who in later 
Hinduism became regarded as of evil intent. Also
 one of a group of eight ASTAMATARAS personifying
 jealousy (also named Aindri in this capacity). In
 another grouping one of nine NAVASAKTIS or astral
 deities who, in southern India, rank higher than the
 SAPTAMATARAS. Her attendant animal is either an
 elephant or a lion. Attributes: hook, rosary, Santana
 flower, staff and waterjar. One thousand-eyed. Also
 Aindri; Mahendri; Paulomi; Saci; Sujata.
 Indukari
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Consort of
 the god SAMBA. Attribute: a shield.
 Ing
 Ancestral god. Anglo-Saxon. According to a runic
 poem he is the father of the Saxons and appeared
 from across the sea and then disappeared, never
 to return. He may also be classed as one of the
 Nordic AESIR gods.
 Inkanyamba
 Storm god. Zulu [southern Africa]. The deity
 specifically responsible for tornados and per
ceived as a huge snake coiling down from heaven
 to earth. According to some Zulu authorities,
 Inkanyamba is a goddess of storms and water.
 Inmar
 Sky god(dess). Votyak (Finno-Ugric). The name
 became incorporated into Christian tradition and
 interpreted as “the mother of God.”
 Inmutef (pillar of his mother)
 Minor god. Egyptian. The “bearer of the heav
ens,” his cult is linked with that of the goddess
 HATHOR.
 Insitor
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. The deity con
cerned with sowing of crops.
 Intal (gods their father)
 God of fire. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Associated with paternalism and 
one of the group classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI
 complex.
 Intercidona
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. A guardian deity
 invoked to keep evil spirits away from the new
born child. Symbolized by a cleaver.
140 Inti
 Inti (sun)
 Sun god. Inca (pre-Columbian South America)
 [Peru, etc]. His consort is the moon goddess
 MAMA-KILYA. Inti was depicted as a trinity in the
 sanctuaries in Cuzco, possibly in deference to the
 Christian Trinity. The Temple of the Sun is
 reported to have housed images, in gold, of all the
 sky gods in the Inca pantheon on more or less
 equal terms, since the sun is regarded as one of
 many great celestial powers. Inti may also have
 been depicted as a face on a gold disc. The so
called “fields of the sun” supported the Inca
 priesthood. The three sun deities are Apo-Inti
 (lord sun), Cori-Inti (son sun) and Inti-Wawqi
 (sun brother). The sun god(s) is perceived as the
 progenitor of the Inca rulers at Cuzco through
 two children—a son Manco Capac and his sis
ter/consort Mama Ocllo Huaco. The Quechua
 Indians of the central Andes call the same deity
 Inti Huayna Capac and perceive him as part of a
 trinity with the Christian god and Christ.
 Io See KIHO.
 Iord
 Earth goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). In Viking tra
dition lord embodies the abstract sacredness of the
 earth. Said to be the mother of THOR and in some
 legends, the wife of OTHIN. 
See also FJORGYN.
 Ipalnemoani (he who through one lives)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the OME
TEOTL complex.
 Ipy
 Mother goddess. Egyptian. In the Pyramid Texts
 Ipy appears occasionally as a benevolent guardian
 and wet nurse to the king. She is also perceived to
 exert a benign influence on amulets. Depicted as
 a hippopotamus or anthropomorphically with a
 hippo’s head. Also Ipet.
 Iris (rainbow)
 Messenger goddess. Greek and Roman. The spe
cial attendant of the goddess HERA, Iris is a virgin
 goddess who forms the rainbow bridge between
 heaven and earth. Depicted with wings and car
rying a staff.
 Irmin
 War god. Germanic. Probably equating with
 TIWAZ, the name implies one of great strength. In
 Saxony, there is the so-called Irmin pillar which
 may be a reference to the deity.
 Iruva
 Sun god. African. A number of tribes worship the
 sun by this generic name, particularly in
 Cameroon, Congo and Tanzania.
 Isa (1)
 1. An aspect of S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic). Also a dik
pala or guardian of the northeastern quarter; and
 an EKADASARUDRA (one of the eleven rudras).
 Rides upon a goat or a bull. Color: white. Attrib
utes: five arrows, ax, drum, fruit, hatchet, hook,
 lute, noose, rosary, staff. Three-eyed.
 2. Guardian deity. Buddhist. A minor dikpala
 attended by a bull. Color: white. Attributes: cup,
 moon disc and trident.
 Isa (2)
 River goddess. Songhai [Niger, West Africa]. The
 mother goddess of the river Niger.
Is ˇara
 ISIS 141
 ISIS
 Goddess of marriage and childbirth. Meso
potamian (Babylonian-Akkadian) and west
ern Semitic. Also a deity concerned with the
 enforcing of oaths. Known chiefly from early
 inscriptions and some Akkadian texts. Her
 Mesopotamian cult center was the Babylonian
 town of Kisurra, but she is also thought to have
 been worshiped across a wide area among Syrians,
 Canaanites and Hittites. Her symbol is the scor
pion. Also Esˇara.
 Isdes
 Chthonic god of death. Egyptian. Known from
 the Middle Kingdom onward he is one of the
 minor deities concerned with the judgment of the
 dead. He became syncretized with ANUBIS.
 Ishi-Kori-Dome
 God(dess) of stone cutters. Shinto [Japan]. Of
 ambiguous gender, this deity created the stone
 mold into which the bronze was cast to 
make the perfect divine mirror. It was used so
 that AMATERASU, the sun goddess, could see her
 glorious reflection and so be enticed from the
 dark cave where she had hidden herself to
 escape the excesses of the god SUSANO-WO.
 Ishi-Kori-Dome is also the tutelary deity of
 mirror makers and was one of the escorts for
 Prince NINIGI when he descended from heaven
 to earth. Generally invoked beside fire and
 smith KAMIS.
 Isimud
 Messenger god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Readily identified by possessing two faces look
ing in opposite directions, Isimud is the mes
senger of the god ENKI. Also Isinu; Usumu
 (Akkadian).
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP Early dynastic
 period (circa 2700 BC) and probably earlier until
 the end of Egyptian history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT universal throughout areas
 of Egyptian influence, but particularly at Giza
 and at Behbeit el-Hagar in the Nile delta. Also
 at Thebes on the west bank, at Dendara and in
 the temple of Seti I at Abydos. A GrecoRoman
 sanctuary existed on Philae (now moved to
 Agilqiya).
 ART REFERENCES monumental carving; contem
porary sculptures; wall paintings and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; the Great
 Hymn to Isis from the stele of Amenemose
 (Louvre); etc.
 Isis is one of the great deities of the Egyptian
 pantheon and, with OSIRIS, probably maintained
 the most universal appeal outside Egypt. Greco
Roman culture was particularly enamored of her
 and called her the Stella Maris (star of the sea),
 represented in the heavens by the north star. An
 offspring of GEB and NUT in the Heliopolis
 genealogy, Isis is the mother of the god kings of
 Egypt and both elder sister and consort of Osiris.
 The other siblings include SETH and NEPHTHYS.
 Isis is depicted in human form, but usually wear
ing a crown in the form of a throne or cow horns
 encircling a sun disc (see HATHOR). She may also
 be depicted, wholly or in part, as a hawk. From
 the New Kingdom (circa 1500 BC) onward she is
 also associated with a device not dissimilar to the
 ankh symbol and known as the “Isis knot.” The
 symbol was incorporated into a bloodstone
 amulet known as the tyet.
 In legend she is responsible twice for restoring
 Osiris, once after Seth has thrown his body into
 the Nile and again after Seth has dismembered it.
 She impregnates herself from his corpse as he is
142 IS ˇKUR
 entering the underworld as its ruler, and from
 Osiris’s semen conceives HORUS, to whom she
 gives birth in the papyrus swamps at Khemmis in
 the Nile delta. Thus, since Horus instilled himself
 into the king of Egypt during life, and Osiris took
 over on death (see also Horus and Osiris), the
 ruler was perceived to suckle at the breast of Isis
 (as HARPOKRATES). As Isis guarded Horus against
 injury, so she also protected the earthly king of
 Egypt as a child. In the courts of the gods, Isis put
 up a strong challenge in support of Horus’s claim
 to the throne against that of her brother Seth,
 and she showed Seth to be guilty of buggery
 against Horus.
 In the Greco-Roman period, Isis sanctuaries
 were built on the island of Delos and at Pompeii.
 There is much argument that the Isis cult influ
enced the portrayal of the Christian Virgin Mary,
 who was also known as Stella Maris and whose
 portraits with the Christ often bear a striking sim
ilarity to those of Isis with Horus.
 IS ˇKUR
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. Storm
 god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC, and
 probably earlier, until circa 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS ADAD (Akkadian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Karkara.
 ART REFERENCES plaques: votive stelae; glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts.
 The chief rain and thunder god of herdsmen,
 Isˇkur is described as the brother of the sun god
 UTU.In creation mythology Isˇkur is given charge
 over the winds, the so-called “silver lock of the
 heart of heaven,” by the god ENKI. According to
 some authors, in prehistoric times he was per
ceived as a bull or as a lion whose roar is the thun
der. He may be depicted as a warrior riding across
 the skies in a chariot, dispensing raindrops and
 hailstones. In one text he is identified as the son
 of AN and twin brother of Enki. He is to be com
pared with NINURTA who was primarily a god of
 farmers. He was also adopted by the Hittites as a
 storm god.
 Issaki
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Depicted
 carrying a headless child. Also Kerala.
 Istadevata
 1. Generic title of a personal god. Hindu. The
 name given to a deity chosen by an individual for
 special worship in return for protection and spir
itual guidance. Also the name given to a house
hold icon.
 2. Tutelary god. Buddhist, particularly in Tibet.
 The personal deity of one preparing for Tantric
 initiation.
 Is ˇtanu
 Sun god. Hittite. A god of judgment, depicted
 bearing a winged sun on his crown or headdress,
 and a crooked staff.
 IS ˇTAR (star of heaven)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian)
 [Iraq]. Goddess of fertility and war.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2500 BC until
 circa AD 200.
 SYNONYMS INANA [Sumerian].
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Mesopotamia
 particularly at Babylon and Nineveh, with
 smaller sanctuaries across a more extensive area
 of the ancient world including Mari.
 ART REFERENCES votive inscriptions; cylinder
 seals and seal impressions; limestone reliefs, etc.
ITZAMNA 143
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts including
 The Descent of Isˇtar, Gilgamesˇ and Etana; temple
 hymns.
 Isˇtar is probably the most significant and influen
tial of all ancient Near Eastern goddesses. She is
 the counterpart of, and largely takes over from,
 the Sumerian Inana. She is the daughter, in sep
arate traditions, of the moon god SIN and of the
 god of heaven ANU. She is generally depicted with
 wings and with weapon cases at her shoulders.
 She may carry a ceremonial double-headed mace
scimitar embellished with lion heads and is fre
quently accompanied by a lion. She is symbolized
 by an eight-pointed star.
 In Egypt she was revered as a goddess of heal
ing. There is evidence from the el-Amarna letters
 that Amenhotep III, who apparently suffered
 from severe tooth abscesses, was loaned a statue
 of Isˇtar from Nineveh in the hopes that its cura
tive powers might help his suffering.
 Is ˇtaran
 Local god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). The tute
lary god of the city of Der, east of the river Tigris
 in northern Babylonia. Also GUSILIM.
 Isten
 Creator god. Pre-Christian Hungarian. Accord
ing to tradition, his sacred animal, the eagle,
 guided the Hungarian people to their homeland.
 Other attributes include arrow, horse phallus and
 tree.
 Is ˇum
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). The brother of S ˇAMASˇ, the sun god,
 and an attendant of the plague god ERRA. He may
 have been a god of fire and, according to texts, led
 the gods in war as a herald but was nonetheless
 generally regarded as benevolent. Known partic
ularly from the Babylonian legend of Erra and
 Isˇum. Also ENDURSAGA.
 Isvara
 Epithet of the god S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic). In San
skrit designated the “supreme god who rules the
 universe.” The generic title of a Hindu’s personal
 high god. In Buddhism the name of a YAKSA
 attending the eleventh tirthankara.
 Itonde
 God of death. Mongo and Nkundo [central
 Democratic Republic of Congo, Africa]. He
 consumes rats as food and is also the god of
 hunters in the dark jungle forests. Described in
 the Epic of Lianja as the first man to die whose
 spirit reincarnated at the instant of death, into
 his son LIANJA. He possesses a bell with magi
cal properties, the elefo, by which he predicts
 where death will strike.
 Itzam Cab
 Chthonic earth god. Mayan (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The earth aspect of the creator
 god ITZAM NA. He is also a god of fire, and
 hearthstones are called “head of Itzam Cab.”
 Sticks of firewood are his thighs, flames his
 tongue and the pot resting on the fire his liver. In
 his vegetation aspect he is depicted with leaves of
 maize sprouting from his head.
 ITZAM NA (iguana house)
 ORIGIN Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 300 until
 circa AD 900.
144 Itzcuintli
 Itzpapalotl (obsidian butterfly)
 SYNONYMS HUNABKU; Hun Itzamna; Yaxcocah
mut; God K.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Chichen Itza and other sites,
 mainly in the Yucatan peninsula.
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings, codex illustra
tions.
 LITERARY SOURCES mainly the Vienna Codex.
 The principal god in the Mayan pantheon
 according to the Vienna codex. He lives in the sky
 and sends the rain. Also a god of medicine and a
 fire god. By tradition the Maya believed that the
 world was set within a vast house, the walls and
 roof of which were formed by four huge iguanas
 standing upright but with their heads bent down
wards. Each reptile has its own direction and
 color.
 Itzam Na is not invoked in the rites of modern
 Yucatan peasants but, at one time, was the subject
 of a ritual which involved daubing the lowest step
 of a sanctuary with mud and the other steps with
 blue pigment (the color peculiar to rain gods). At
 Chichen Itza sacrifice was regularly made to a
 huge crocodile believed to be the personification
 of the god.
 Itzam Na is probably the same deity as Hunab
 Ku, who is identified in some texts as his father,
 but in the guise of a reptile. He may also be
 depicted anthropomorphically. In his aspect as a
 vegetation god, Itzam Na may be the same as the
 so-called God K of the codices, recognized by a
 long branching nose in the form of a pair of
 infolded leaves. His earthly aspect is called ITZAM
 CAB, in which guise maize leaves sprout from the
 top of his head.
 Itzcuintli
 Goddess of hearths. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. A guardian deity of the home per
sonified by fire. One of the group classed as the
 XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Minor mother goddess. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the TETEOINNAN complex. Also recognized as a
 fire goddess.
 Itzpapalotl-Itzcueye (possessor of obsidian
 skirt)
 Minor mother goddess. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the TETEOINNAN complex. Limited to the Valley
 of Mexico.
 Itztapal Totec (our lord the stone slab)
 Fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A god of agriculture but also a patron of
 precious metallurgists. One of the group classed
 as the XIPE TOTEC complex.
 ltztli
 (obsidian blade)
 God of justice. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the TEZ
CATLIPOCA complex.
 Iunones
 Goddesses of femininity. Greco-Roman. Gener
ally depicted as a trio of MATRES. A shrine at
 Saintes Maries on the Rhone delta was originally 
dedicated to the Iunones Augustae.
 Iusaas
 Creator goddess. Egyptian (Lower). Locally
 known from Heliopolis and perceived as being a
 feminine principle in the cosmos equating to the
 sun god ATUM. Depicted anthropomorphically
 with a scarab on her head.
Iuturna
 Ixtlilton 145
 Ix Zacal Nok (lady cloth-weaver)
 Goddess of springs and wells. Roman. Invoked
 particularly in times of drought.
 Ix Chebel Yax
 Mother goddess. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Goddess of weaving and patroness of
 weavers, whose tutelage is shared with IX CHEL. 
See also CHIBIRIAS.
 Ix Chel
 Moon goddess. Mayan (Yucatec and  Quiche,
 classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Also the
 goddess of childbirth and medicine and of rain
bows. A consort of the sun god. She has a major
 shrine as Cozumel and small figurines of the
 goddess have been conventionally placed
 beneath the beds of women in labor. Such
 women are considered to be in great danger at
 times of lunar eclipse when the unborn child
 may develop deformities. Ix Chel is a guardian
 against disease and the Quiche Indians regard
 her as a goddess of fertility and sexual inter
course.
 A goddess of weaving, believed to be the first
 being on earth to weave cloth, she was employed
 in this craft when she first attracted the attention
 of the sun god. She carries her loom sticks across
 the sky to protect her from jaguars. Under Chris
tian influence she has been largely syncretized
 with the Virgin Mary. Also Goddess 1. 
See also IX CHEBEL YAX.
 Ix Kanan
 Vegetation goddess. Mayan (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The guardian of the bean plant.
 Her consort is the maize god IH P’EN. The cou
ple are invoked at sowing time when turkeys and
 chickens are sacrificed.
 Creator goddess. Mayan (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. The consort of the sun god Kinich
 Ahau and also the inventor of weaving. She may
 represent another aspect of the mother goddess
 COLEL CAB. Also Ix Azal Uoh; Ixchel.
 See also AH KIN.
 Ixcozauhqui (yellow face in the house)
 God of fire. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Associated with paternalism and one of the
 group classed as the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
 Ixnextli (eye-lashes)
 Goddess of weavers. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the
 TETEOINNAN complex.
 Ixpuztec (broken face)
 Minor underworld god. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the Mictlantecuhtli complex.
 Ixquimilli-Itzlacoliuhqui (eye-bundle
 curved obsidian blade)
 God of justice. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the TEZ
CATLIPOCA complex.
 Ixtab
 Goddess. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Tutelary goddess of suicide victims.
 Ixtlilton (little black face)
 Minor god of sexual lust. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the XIUHTECUHTLI complex.
146 Izanagi-No-Kami
 Izanagi-No-Kami (his augustness the one
 who invites)
 Creator god. Shinto [Japan]. One of seventeen
 beings involved in creation. His consort is
 IZANAMI-NO-KAMI. They are strictly of Japanese
 origin with no Chinese or Buddhist influence.
 Jointly they are responsible to the other fifteen
 primordial deities to “make, consolidate and give
 birth to this drifting land.” The reference, in the
 Kojiki sacred text, is to the reed beds which were
 considered to float on the primal waters. The pair
 were granted a heavenly jeweled spear and they
 stood upon the floating bridge of heaven, stirring
 the waters with the spear. When the spear was
 pulled up, the brine which dripped from it created
 the island of Onogoro, the first dry land, believed
 to be the island of Nu-Shima on the southern
 coast of Awagi. According to mythology, the pair
 created two beings, a son HIRUKO and an island
 Ahaji. They generated the remaining fourteen
 islands which make up Japan and then set about
 creating the rest of the KAMI pantheon. Izanagi’s
 most significant offspring include AMATERASU,
 the sun goddess, born from his nose and SUSANO
WO, the storm god, born from his left eye, who
 are the joint rulers of the universe. Also Izanagi
No-Mikoto.
 Izanami-No-Kami (her augustness the one
 who invites)
 Creator goddess. Shinto [Japan]. See IZANAGI
NO-KAMI for full details. Izanami was burned to
 death by the birth of the fire god HI-NO-KAGU
TSUCHI, after which the eight thunders sprang
 from her corpse. Also Izanami-No-Mikoto.
 Izquitecatl
 Fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the Ome
tochtli complex personifying the maguey or agave
 plant from which a potent drink called pulque is
 brewed.
6
 J
 Jabru
 Sky god. Elamite [Iran]. Local deity largely
 eclipsed by AN.
 JAGANNATH (lord of the world)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Puranic) [India]. Transmutation
 of the essence of the god Visˇnu.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400 and
 probably earlier until present day.
 SYNONYMS Jaggernaut.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Bengal and Puri (Oríssa).
 ART REFERENCES bronze sculptures. Well-known
 wooden image at Puri.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana epic; Puranic
 texts.
 Jagannath occupies an obscure position. His
 sister is SUBHADRA and his brother Balabhadra.
 He is depicted in hideous fashion as a monster
 with an enormous head and bulging eyes, but
 with no legs and only the stumps of arms.
 According to legend, when VISˇNU was acci
dently slain by a hunter, his bones were placed
 in a box and VISVAKARMA, the Hindu god of 
artisans, was commissioned to create a new
 body to cover the bones. His agreement was
 conditional on no one seeing the work until it
 was finished. KRSNA’s curiosity got the better of
 him and the resultant half-finished freak was
 Jagannath.
 In an unusual departure from normal ritual
 practice, the image of Jagannath is removed from
 his sanctuary at Puri for a week each year and
 aired in public view. Two festivals, the Rathayatra
 and Snanayatra, are dedicated to Jagannath and
 his siblings.
 Jagaubis
 Fire god. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. Largely
 eclipsed by GABIJA.
 Jahwe See YHWH.
 Jakomba
 God of morality. Bangala [Democratic Republic
 of Congo, central Africa]. Also known as the god
 of hearts, he controls human thought. Also Nza
komba.
 Jalinprabha (light of the sun)
 God. Buddhist. A BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate. Color: red. Attributes: staff, sun disc
 and sword. Also Suryaprabha.
 147
148 Jambhala
 Jambhala (devouring)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA, RATNASAMBHAVA or Vajrasattva, or a
 collective emanation of the five DHYANIBUD
DHAS, he is the equal of the Hindu god KUBERA.
 His SAKTI is VASUDHARA and he may stand upon
 a man or a conch. Color: blue or white. Attrib
utes: arrow, bow, cup, hook, Ichneumon fly,
 image of Aksobhya in the hair, jewel, noose,
 other jewels, staff, sword and trident. Three
headed, each head representing one of the three
 named Dhyanibuddhas.
 Janguli (knowledge of poisons)
 Snake goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Prevents
 and cures snake bite. An emanation of AKSOBHYA.
 Also one of a group of DHARANIS (deification of
 Buddhist texts). Accompanied by a snake or other
 unidentified creature. Color: green, white or 
yellow. Attributes: arrow, blue lotus, bow, image of
 Aksobhya on crown, lute, peacock feather, snake,
 staff, sword and trident. One- or three-headed.
 JANUS
 ORIGIN Roman. God of passage.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Ianus.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT many sanctuaries through
out Italy, including the celebrated Janus
 Quadrifons temple (not extant).
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and relief carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil).
 Janus is generally known as the “god with two
 faces” and is the deity responsible for gates, door
ways and of all beginnings. He is also specifically
 a benign intercessor in times of war. He has no
 Greek counterpart but is the god of past, present
 and future. According to legend the son of
 APOLLO, born in Thessaly, he founded the city of
 Janiculum on the Tiber.
 Janus is depicted with two faces turned in oppo
site directions, symbolizing his dominance over
 past and future. He holds a key in his right hand
 and a staff in his left when invoked as guardian of
 a gate or roadway; alternatively he holds the num
bers 300 and 65 when presiding over the start of
 a new year. He is also equated with the rising and
 setting of the sun. Each new season, and the dawn
 of each day was sacred to Janus. He was particu
larly celebrated at New Year and the month name
 January is derivative. The Janus Quadrifons tem
ple was reputedly a perfectly symmetrical square,
 each side possessing one door representing each
 of the four seasons, and three windows collec
tively comprising the twelve months of the year.
 Jarri
 Plague god. Hittite and Hurrian. Also war god
 known as the “lord of the bow” who protected the
 king in battle.
 Jayakara (victorious)
 God. Buddhist. Probably of Hindu derivation, he
 rides in a carriage drawn by cockatoos. Color:
 white. Attributes: arrow, bow, garland and wine
 glass.
 Jayanta (victorious)
 God. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). One of the sons
 of INDRA, and one of the eleven EKADASARUDRAS
 or forms of the god RUDRA. Attributes: arrow, ax,
 bow, club, cup, drum, hammer, hook, prayer
 wheel, rosary, spear, trident and waterjar.
 Jayatara (victorious Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana).
Jaya-Vijaya (victorious)
 Junrojin 149
 Jokinam
 Twin goddesses. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 Possibly forms of DURGA accompanied by a 
lion.
 Jehovah
 Creator god. Christian. The name came into
 usage from circa AD 1200 and is an adulteration
 which has largely replaced the title YHWH in the
 English-speaking churches. 
See also YHWH.
 Jnanadakini (knowledge)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA and the SAKTI of yogambara. Color:
 blue. Attributes: ax, bell, club, cup, staff and
 sword.
 Jnanaparamita (perfection of knowledge)
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: white. Attributes: the
 tree of wisdom and a jeweled banner.
 Jnanavasita (control of knowledge)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spiritual
 regeneration. Color: whitish blue. Attributes:
 sword on a blue lotus.
 Jok
 Creator god. African. A generic term employed
 by a large number of tribes. Generally the 
jok is represented by a totem and also has an 
animal name. The Acholi in Uganda perceive jok
 to live in caves to which they deliver food and
 drink offerings. For the Shilluk in Sudan, Jwok
 created mankind from river clay.
 Lake god. Lake Albert [East Africa]. The owner
 of the “lake cows” which graze at the bottom of
 Lake Albert and which are herded by drowned
 fishermen.
 Jumis
 Fertility god. Pre-Christian Latvian. Symbolized
 by cereal stalks joined at the heads, or bent over
 and buried in the ground.
 JUNO
 ORIGIN Roman. Queen of heaven.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS HERA (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Sparta, Rome and Heraeum.
 ART REFERENCES large numbers of sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil) etc.
 Juno is modeled on the Greek goddess Hera. In
 the Roman pantheon she is the daughter of Cronos
 and RHEA and the sister and incestuous consort of
 JUPITER, who seduced her in the guise of a cuckoo.
 Following their wedding on Mount Olympus,
 Juno was accorded the title of goddess of marriage,
 though subsequently she was obliged to endure
 Jupiter’s philandering with numerous concubines.
 Juno is the mother of MARS, Vulcan and HEBE.
 Her sacred animals are the peacock and the cuckoo
 and she is invariably depicted in majestic apparel.
 Her chief festival in Rome was the Matronalia.
 See also KRONOS, VULCANUS.
 Junrojin
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. One of seven
 deities in Shintoism concerned with fortune.
 He is depicted as a Chinese hermit and is some
times confused with the god FUKUROKUJU. A
150 JUPITER
 small figure with a large head, he carries a staff
 to which is attached a little book. By tradition
 the book contains information about the lifes
pan of each mortal person. He is accompanied
 by a black deer, said to have been made thus by
 old age.
 JUPITER
 ORIGIN Roman. Head of the Roman pantheon.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Iuppiter; Jove; Juppiter.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Roman world.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, reliefs, etc. 
LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil). 
Jupiter parallels the Greek supreme deity ZEUS, as
 the father of the gods. His origins lie in the Indo
European sky god DYAUS PITAR. His consort is
 JUNO. His main sanctuary is located on the Capi
toline Hill in Rome and epithets include Tonans
 (thunderer) and Fulgurator (sender of lightning)
 although he is, above all, the giver of the bright
 light of day. He is, like Zeus, believed to hurl
 thunderbolts from the sky and he was represented
 in the sanctuary of Jupiter Feretrius by a crude
 lump of stone. He is particularly responsible for
 the honoring of oaths which led to the practice of
 swearing in his name.
 In Rome he formed part of an early trinity with
 MARS, god of war and farming, and QUIRINUS.
 This was later revised to include Jupiter, Juno and
 MINERVA, all three of whom shared the Capito
line Temple.
 Jupiter became known under a variety of assim
ilated names. Thus he was Jupiter Victor leading
 the legions to victory, or Jupiter Stator when they
 were in a defensive role, or Jupiter Protector.
 Away from Rome he was allied with the Syr
ian/Hittite god DOLICHENUS and in this form
 became popular with the Roman military with
 shrines as far away as Britain.
 Juventas
 Goddess of youth. Roman. Modeled on the
 Greek goddess HEBE.
 Jvaraharisvara (lord of fever)
 Plague god. Hindu. Associated with malaria, par
ticularly in Bengal.
 Jyestha
 Goddess of misfortune. Hindu (Puranic and ear
lier). The elder sister of the goddess LAKSMI,
 Jyestha personifies poverty and is depicted with a
 large belly and long nose. In earlier Hinduism
 she was worshiped particularly in southern India.
 Also a NAKSATRA of evil influence; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Her animal
 is an ass. Attributes: arrow, banner with crow, cup,
 blue lotus, hair-ornament and staff.
6
 K
 Ka Tyeleo
 Creator god. Senufo [Ivory Coast, West Africa].
 Significantly in such an environment, according
 to tradition, he fashioned the fruit-bearing trees
 on the seventh day of creation.
 Kabeiroi
 Blacksmith gods. Greek. According to tradition
 the sons or grandsons of the blacksmith god 
HEPHAISTOS. The cult was centered particularly
 on Lemnos, where there was an Etruscan tradi
tion until circa 500 BC, and at Thebes. The
 Kabeiroi are thought to derive from pre-Greek
 Asian fertility deities in Anatolia [Turkey].
 Kabta
 God of artisans. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). In
 creation mythology he is given charge over brick
molds and pickaxes.
 Kabrakan
 Earthquake god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The so-called “destroyer of mountains”
 usually coupled with the god ZIPAKNA who builds
 mountains.
 Ka’cak
 Sea spirit. Siberian Inuit [eastern Siberia]. A
 fierce old woman who lives in the ocean depths
 and owns all the creatures of the sea. She is 
said to feed off the bodies of drowned fisher
men and is the subject of sacrifice. 
See also ARNAKUA’GSAK.
 Kacchapesvara (lord of the tortoise)
 God. Hindu (Puranic). An epithet of S ˇIVA. In 
certain artworks, particularly those inscribed 
on linga stones, VISˇNU, in his aspect of
 KURMA(VATARA), the tortoise, is depicted wor
shiping S ˇiva. These illustrations were designed
 by Saivites as part of a propaganda exercise to
 demonstrate the superiority of S ˇiva over Visˇnu.
 Kades ˇ
 Fertility goddess. Canaanite. Depicted naked car
rying a snake and usually standing upon a lion.
 Taken over by the Egyptians (see QUADESˇ).
 Kadru (russet)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of the
 daughters of DAKSA, consort of KASYAPA and
 mother of the nagas (snake demons).
 151
152 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 Kakaku
 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 Fire god. Shinto [Japan]. One of a number of 
fire KAMIS who are honored in special Hi-Matsuri
 festivals. He is worshiped in the mountain shrine
 of Kono-Jinja. The sacred fire can only be gener
ated by a board and stick and this is regarded as a
 powerful purifier in Shintoism. The most cele
brated temple of the fire kamis is situated on
 Mount Atago near Kyoto to which worshipers
 are drawn from all over Japan to obtain charms as
 protection against fire.
 Kahilan
 Tutelary god. Pre-Islamic Arabian. Known only
 from inscriptions.
 Kahukura
 God of agriculture and creator of the rainbow.
 Polynesian and Maori. The son of RONGOMAI,
 Kahukura is invoked for the well-being of crops
 and in some regions the name appears to be syn
onymous with that of RONGOMATANE, the god of
 agriculture. Kahukura is particularly associated
 with a staple vegetable of the Maori, the kumara, a
 root tuber that was introduced to New Zealand by
 man and is said to possess many magical properties.
 Kahukura is not to be confused with a legendary
 character of the same name, a mortal hero who, in
 antiquity, learned the art of making fish nets.
 Kai Yum (singing lord)
 God of music. Mayan (Lacandon) (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. He lives in the sky and
 is attendant on CACOCH, one of the aspects the
 Mayan creator god. Depicted as a brazier shaped
 like a pottery drum.
 Kaikara
 Harvest goddess. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa].
 Propitiated before harvesting with offerings of
 millet.
 River god. Shinto [Japan]. His name is often
 inscribed on the edge tiles of a house to protect
 against fire.
 Kakasya (crow faced)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. No further informa
tion available.
 Kakka
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). He was the attendant and minister 
of state to both ANU and ANSˇAR, and is known
 particularly from the text of Nergal and Eres ˇkigal.
 Kakupacat (fiery glance)
 War god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican] [Mex
ico]. Said to bear a shield of fire with which he
 protects himself in battle.
 Kala
 God of death. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). An epi
thet of YAMA and occasionally of S ˇIVA. Also the
 personification of time in the Atharvaveda.
 Kala-Bhadra
 Minor goddess of death. Hindu (Puranic). An
 auspicious attendant of funerals who is invoked in
 burial grounds in order to safeguard the passage
 of the dead to the otherworld. She is sometimes
 referred to as Karala-Bhadra.
 Kalacakra (time wheel)
 Tutelary god. Buddhist (Mahayana) and Lamaist
 [Tibet]. One of a group of yi-dam tutelary
 deities chosen on a basis of personal selection.
 Perceived as time in the form of a CAKRA
Kalika 153
 (rotating wheel) and one who dominates the
 Hindu gods KAMA and RUDRA.SAKTI with two
 to four heads. Color: blue. Attributes: a large
 variety held in up to twenty-four hands. Typi
cally four-headed.
 Kaladuti (messenger of death)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). May be accom
panied by a horse. Color: red. Attributes: cow
 head, cup, hammer and trident.
 Kalavikarnika
 Fever goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Attributes
 include a cup or skull.
 KALI (1)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Puranic) [India]. Goddess of
 destruction.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400, 
but known from much earlier times, until
 present.
 SYNONYMS many epithets, also linked with
 Durga.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly in Bengal.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures in stone and bronze.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana epic and various
 Puranic texts.
 Kali is the most terrible and malignant aspect of
 the goddess Sakti (see also Durga) though the
 name Kali is an epithet applied to several god
desses. She is the central figure of the sakta cult in
 Bengal. Her consort is generally perceived as
 S
 ˇIVA, whom she aids and abets in his more malig
nant aspects. She is also one of the MAHAVIDYA
 personifications of the SAKTI of S ˇiva. In her earli
est form she may have been the personification of 
the spirit of evil.
 She is depicted variously with long ragged
 locks, fang-like teeth or even tusks, lips smeared
 or dripping with blood and claw-like hands with
 long nails. Her tongue often protrudes. She has
 no special vehicle but may be seen dancing on a
 prostrate S ˇiva. She possesses ten (sometimes as
 many as eighteen) arms and may wear a necklace
 of skulls, a belt of severed arms, earrings of chil
dren’s corpses, and snakes as bracelets. Often she
 is half-naked with black skin. Kali is depicted
 wading through gore on the battlefield and drink
ing the blood of her victims. Frequently she holds
 a severed head in one of her hands and a large
 sword in another. At cremation sites she sits upon
 the body of the deceased surrounded by attendant
 jackals.
 There are also more benign aspects of Kali. She
 slaughters demons and sometimes her hands are
 raised in blessing. The conflict of her personality
 follows the widely held notion that out of destruc
tion comes rebirth.
 Kali is worshiped in Bengal during the
 Dipavali festival. In southern India she is wor
shiped as a distinct plague goddess associated
 with cholera.
 Kali (2)
 Goddess of learning. Jain. One of sixteen headed
 by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Kaligni-Rudra (the funerary fire Rudra)
 Minor god. Hindu (Puranic). A violent represen
tation of S ˇIVA who is attendant at cremations and
 whose warlike attributes include sword, shield,
 bow and arrow.
 Kalika (black)
 1. Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Often
 depicted standing upon a corpse. Color: dark
 blue. Attributes: cup and knife.
 2. Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). A SAKTI of 
NIRRTI, and an epithet of DURGA.
154 Kalisia
 Kalisia
 Creator god. Pigmy [Democratic Republic of
 Congo and Congo, central Africa]. The guardian
 of hunters and the jungle forests. Pigmy hunters
 invoke the god with special rituals and he delivers
 dream messages identifying the location of game.
 Kaliya
 Minor serpent god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of the nagas in the endless conflict between good
 and evil, he poisoned the fresh water with his
 venom. The young KRSNA revived all the life which
 had drunk from it and then almost destroyed Kaliya
 before taking the snake as one of his followers. By
 tradition he lives in depths of the river Yamuna.
 Kalki(n) (with white horse)
 Horse god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 Possibly the tenth avatara of VISˇNU. He rewards
 the good and punishes evil. The counterpart of
 the Buddhist deity MAITREYA. Horses became
 associated with divine kingship in ancient India
 because of their speed of movement. Solar deities
 were perceived to ride horses across the sky and
 horse sacrifice became highly significant. Kalki is
 depicted either anthropomorphically or with the
 head of a horse and has four arms. He is attended
 by a white horse. Attributes: arrow, conch, prayer
 wheel, shield and sword. Also Visˇnuyasas.
 Kalligeneia
 Obscure birth goddess. Greek. Known only from
 ritual texts in Athens.
 Kaltesh
 Fertility goddess. Ugric (western Siberian). A
 goddess concerned with childbirth and the future
 destiny of the infant. Consort of the sky god
 Nun. Her sacred animals include the hare and
 the goose and she may be symbolized by a birch
 tree.
 Kalunga
 Creator god. Ndonga [northern Namibia, south
ern Africa]. Said to take the form of a giant man
 who is always partially hidden by clouds and gen
erally seen only by women intermediaries known
 as nelagos who go to converse with him in sacred
 places. He is the father of MUSISI. The god is
 invoked at times of warfare and illness, but also as
 a fertility deity and before making a journey.
 KAMA(DEVA) (desire)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Puranic) [India]. God of carnal
 love.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1000 BC, and
 probably earlier, until present.
 SYNONYMS Kama; MANMATHA; Ananga.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various.
 ART REFERENCES stone and metal sculptures;
 reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana epic and various
 Puranic texts.
 As god of love Kamadeva stimulates physical
 desire. The son of VISˇNU and LAKSMI, or of their
 reincarnations KRSNA and RUKMINI, in which
 instance he is titled Kama. An alternative leg
endary beginning accounts that he rose 
from the heart of the creator god BRAHMA. His
 chief ally is the god of spring, Vasanta, his princi
pal consort the goddess of affection, RATI, and he
 is attended by a band of nymphs, the APSARAS.
 Kamadeva is depicted as a youthful god with
 green or red skin, decked with ornaments and
 flowers, armed with a bow of sugar cane, strung
Kamini 155
 with a line of honey bees, and arrows tipped with
 a flower. He may be three-eyed and three-headed
 and frequently rides on a parrot.
 The consorts of Kamadeva are the goddesses
 Rati and PRITI. Legend accounts that Kamadeva
 met his death at the hands of S ˇIVA, who inciner
ated him with flames from his middle eye.
 Kamadeva had inadvertently wounded the medi
tating god with one of his shafts of desire and had
 caused him to fall in love with PARVATI. The epi
thet Ananga (bodiless) is applied to Kamadeva in
 this context. Kamadeva is reincarnated as Kama,
 who in turn is reincarnated as PRADYUMNA, the
 son of Krsna. The god is invoked particularly
 when a bride-to-be departs from her family
 home.
 Kamado-No-Kami
 Household god. Shinto [Japan]. Specifically the
 kami responsible for the cooking stove.
 Kama-Gami
 God of potters. Shinto [Japan]. Each kiln has a
 small stone statue of the deity standing upon it to
 which the potters offer sake and salt before light
ing the fire. Also Kamadokami.
 Kamaksi (of amorous appearance)
 Goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern India and
 Sri Lanka]. A SAKTI of S ˇIVA recognized locally 
at Kanchipuram, but also in her own right at
 several places in southern India. Also Kamatchi
 (Tamil).
 Kamala (lotus-born)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Particularly
 worshiped in southern India. One of a group of
 MAHAVIDYAS or personifications of the SAKTI of
 S
 ˇIVA, representing MAHARATRI.
 Kamalasana
 God. Hindu (Puranic). An epithet of BRAHMA.
 One of the classic depictions in Hindu art
 wherein Brahma is drawn seated on a lotus, which
 blossoms from the navel of VISˇNU.
 Kamantakamurti
 Minor god. Hindu (Puranic). A violent aspect 
of S ˇIVA in which he is depicted immolating
 Kama, the god of sexual love, using a blast of
 fire from his third eye. The reason given for
 this assault is that Kama had interrupted the
 ascetic meditation of S ˇ iva by making him
 desirous of PARVATI.
 Kami
 Generic name for a deity. Shinto [Japan]. The
 title applied to the gods and goddesses of 
Shintoism.
 Kami-Musubi-No-Kami (divine produc
ing wondrous deity)
 Creator being. Shinto [Japan]. The third in the
 list of primordial deities appearing in the Kojiki
 and Nihongi sacred texts. A remote and vaguely
 defined deity who was born alone in the cosmos
 and whose presence remains hidden from
 mankind. Probably influenced by Chinese reli
gion.
 Kamini (loving woman)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An
 attendant of BUDDHAKAPALA. 
156 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi
 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi
 Rain god. Shinto [Japan]. One of many rain
 KAMIS invoked in Shintoism and included in a
 generic grouping of RAIJIN, deities of thunder,
 storm and rain.
 Kamrusepa
 Goddess of healing. Hittite and Hurrian. Mother
 of Aruna. Involved in the legend of TELEPINU,
 the “missing” vegetation fertility god.
 Kana-Yama-Biko-No-Kami
 God of miners. Shinto [Japan]. Born from the
 vomit of IZANAMI and worshiped in the Nangu
Jinja and other shrines. His consort is KANA
YAMA-HIME-NO-KAMI. One of the KAMIS of the
 so-called “metal mountain.”
 Kana-Yama-Hime-No-Kami
 Goddess of miners. Shinto [Japan]. Born from
 the vomit of IZANAMI and worshiped in the
 Nangu-Jinja and other shrines. Her consort is
 KANA-YAMA-BIKO-NO-KAMI. One of the KAMIS
 of the so-called “metal mountain.”
 Kane
 God of light. Polynesian [Hawaii]. A sky god
 comparable with the more widely known Polyne
sian deity ATEA. Considered to be part of a pri
mordial trinity with KU (stability) and LONO
 (sound). 
See also TANE(MAHUTA).
 Kangalogba
 Primordial spirit. Pokot and Suk [Uganda and
 western Kenya, East Africa]. The female spirit
 personified in the dragonfly and also the apothe
osis of the sacred river Oubangui. The mother of
 the creator god TORO.
 Kankala(murti)
 Minor god. A violent and heavily armed aspect
 of S ˇIVA. Traditionally accompanied in artworks
 by a skeleton, Kankala takes his place in mythol
ogy as the representation of the deity who slew
 VISˇNU’S bodyguard VISVAKSENA. This was
 prompted by the refusal of Visvaksena to permit
 S
 ˇ iva an audience with Visˇnu. These illustrations
 were designed by Saivites as part of a propa
ganda exercise to demonstrate the superiority of
 S
 ˇ iva over Visˇnu.
 Kankar Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism became regarded as
 a SAPTAMATARA (mother) of evil intent. Known
 particularly from Bengal as a goddess who spreads
 disease.
 Kantatman
 Obscure god of medicine. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The twentieth of the thirty-nine minor
 avataras of the god VISˇNU and possibly the same
 as DHANVANTARI, as he is said to be a “carrier of
 nectar.” By different genealogy he has been
 equated with PRADYUMNA, the god of love.
 Kanti (desire)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The SAKTI of
 NARAYANA.
 Kapali (wearing skulls)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of the group
 of eleven EKADASARUDRAS or forms of RUDRA.
Kapalini (carrying a cup)
 Katajalina 157
 Karttikeya
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Karaikkal Ammaiyar
 Local mother goddess. Hindu [southern India].
 Known from the town of Karikal as a deified asce
tic who is depicted with an emaciated form.
 Attribute: playing cymbals.
 Karai-Shin
 God of lightning. Buddhist [Japan]. One of the
 deities grouped in Shintoism as the RAIJIN gods of
 thunder, storm and rain.
 Karini
 Inferior goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Karkota
 Snake god. Hindu. One of a group of seven
 MAHANAGAS.Color: black. Attributes: rosary and
 waterjar. Three-eyed.
 Karmavasita (control of karman)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 twelve VASITAS or goddesses personifying the 
disciplines of spiritual regeneration—karma(n)
 is an act, rite or deed originating in the hope 
of future recompense. Color: green. Attribute:
 a staff.
 Karta
 Goddess of destiny. Pre-Christian Latvian.
 Known only from folk traditions.
 1. God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A form of
 SKANDAwho was reared by the Pleiades stars and
 is generally represented therefore with six heads.
 (In Hindu mythology there are only six Pleiades,
 not the seven recognized in modern astronomy.)
 His SAKTI is KARTTIKI and his attendant animal is
 a peacock. Attributes: conch, hook, noose, prayer
 wheel, shield, spear, staff, sword and wood apple. 
2. God. Buddhist. Equating with the Hindu god
 Skanda. Color: red. Rides upon a peacock. Attrib
utes: cock, Sakti and staff.
 Karttiki
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of a group of nine NAVASAKTIS who, in southern
 India, rank higher than the SAPTAMATARAS.
 Kas ˇku
 Moon god. Pre-Hittite and Hittite. Known from
 inscriptions. Also KUSˇUH (Hurrian).
 Kasyapa (deriving from the Sanskrit for 
“tortoise”)
 Primordial god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). In
 Vedic literature a divine demiurge and father of
 mankind, snake demons, DEVAS etc. His name
 stems, arguably, from the notion of the cosmos as
 a giant tortoise. He has had thirteen consorts. In
 other texts he is the father of the god NARADA
 who consorted with one of the daughters of
 DAKSA. Also PRAJAPATI.
 Katajalina
 Animistic spirit. Australian aboriginal. Invoked at
 the ceremony of initiation by the Binbinga peo
ple once living on the west side of the Gulf of
 Carpentaria. Katajalina is reputed to live in an
158 Kataragama
 anthill and to carry off the spirit of the young ini
tiate, kill him and then restore him to life as an
 adult. His presence is announced in the noise of
 the bull-roarer.
 Kataragama
 Tutelary god. Tamil [Sri Lanka]. One of four
 great national deities and equating to the Hindu
 god SKANDA. Also Ceyon.
 Katavul
 Supreme god. Tamil [southern India and Sri
 Lanka]. The ultimate creator of all that exists in
 the world and the judge of humanity able to
 reward or punish at will.
 Katyayani
 Form of the goddess DURGA or PARVATI. Hindu
 (Puranic). Parvati, as the ascetic KALI, possessed
 a black skin. When S ˇIVA ridiculed her she cast it
 off, and it was subsequently filled “with the com
bined brilliance of the gods” to create Katyayani.
 Her attendant animal is a lion or tiger.
 Kauket
 Primordial goddess. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD representing chaos, she is
 coupled with the god KEK and appears in anthro
pomorphic form but with the head of a snake.
 The pair epitomize the primordial darkness. She
 is also depicted greeting the rising sun in the guise
 of a baboon.
 Kaumari
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The
 SAKTI of SKANDA (Kaumara) who in later Hin
duism became regarded as one of a group of seven
 MATARAS (mothers) of evil intent. Also one of a
 group of eight ASTAMATARAS. She embodies lack
 of envy or, alternatively, delusion. Her animal is
 a peacock. Attributes: arrow, ax, bell, book, bow,
 cockerel, lotus, spear, staff and waterjar.
 Kaumudi (moonlight)
 Goddess of the light of the moon. Hindu. The
 consort of CANDRA.
 Kavra’nna (walking around woman)
 Sun spirit. Chukchee [eastern Siberia]. The con
sort of the sun in Chukchee mythology. Also
 Ko’rgina (rejoicing woman).
 Kazyoba
 Sun god. Nyamwezi [Tanzania, East Africa].
 Regarded as the tutelary deity and creator of the
 tribe.
 Keawe
 Creator god. Hawaiian. An androgynous though
 apparently male principle or monad, he lived
 once in the dark empty abyss of Po. There,
 Keawe transformed primordial chaos into an
 orderly cosmos. He fashioned the sky from the
 lid of his calabash (a water-carrying gourd) and
 the sun from an orange disc formerly kept inside
 the calabash. 
Keawe’s first son was KANE, the god of light,
 and his daughter was Na Wahine, both created
 through his own powers of conception. He 
subsequently entered into an incestuous rela
tionship with Na Wahine to father the chief
 pantheon of Hawaiian gods and goddesses,
 including most notably KU, LONO and Kanaloa,
 who became known, collectively, as the tripar
tite god.
Kebechet
 Khasa 159
 Ketua
 Chthonic snake goddess. Egyptian. The daughter
 of ANUBIS who was involved in the cult of the
 dead as the deity responsible for libations. She is
 depicted as a serpent.
 Kek
 Primordial god. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD representing chaos, he is
 coupled with the goddess KAUKET and appears in
 anthropomorphic form but with the head of a
 frog. The pair epitomize the primordial darkness.
 He is also depicted greeting the rising sun in the
 guise of a baboon.
 Kemos ˇ
 Tutelary god. Moabite [Jordan]. Mentioned under
 the name of Chemosh in the Vetus Testamentum: 1
 Kings 11.7. as being one of the gods worshiped by
 the Israelite king Solomon. Eventually adopted
 by the Greeks and absorbed into the cult of ARES.
 Kere’tkun
 Sea spirit. Chukchee [eastern Siberia]. The chief
 being in the ocean depths, known to the mar
itime Chukchee. His consort is Cinei’nen. He
 owns all the creatures of the sea and is said to
 wear a cloak of walrus gut and to be extremely
 fierce. He feeds on the bodies of drowned fisher
men and is the subject of sacrifice. Also Peruten.
 Kesava (long-haired)
 Minor avatara of VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). His SAKTI is KIRTI.
 Kesini (hairy)
 Goddess. Buddhist. An attendant of ARAPACANA.
 God of fortune. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic
 of Congo, central Africa]. One of seven deities
 invoked at daybreak. He controls both good luck
 and ill-fortune. According to tradition he has
 seven children: morning, noon, evening, night,
 sun, moon and water. He accords to water the
 privileges of a firstborn son.
 Khadir
 Vegetation god. Pre-Islamic north African. He
 wanders the earth returning to the same spot
 once in every 500 years and is said to have
 gained his immortality by drinking from the
 well of life. Similar in some respects to the Syr
ian god ADONIS and revered by Alexander the
 Great. Normally referred to as Al-Khidr (the
 green one).
 Khandoba
 Form of the god S ˇIVA. Hindu (late). Khandoba is
 believed to have emerged as a deity with a distinct
 cultic following no earlier than the thirteenth or
 fourteenth century, mainly in western India and
 centered on Jejuri, near Poona. The god is gen
erally regarded as one of several martial forms
 which S ˇiva took to combat demons. His consort
 is the goddess MHALSA, considered to be a form
 of PARVATI. He is depicted bearing four arms and
 is usually mounted on a horse, but may also be
 accompanied by a dog. Attributes: bowl, drum,
 sword and trident. Also Makhari; Mallari; Mart
land.
 Khasa (itch)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Vedic). Daughter of
 DAKSA, consort of KASYAPA and a deity control
ling spirits of forests.
160 Khasaparna
 Khasaparna (gliding through the air)
 God. Buddhist. A variety of AVALOKITESVARA.
 Color: white. Attributes: image of AMITABHA on
 the crown, and lotus.
 Khen-Ma
 Goddess. Buddhist [Tibet]. The female controller
 of the earth’s demons, attended by a ram.
 Attribute: a golden noose.
 Khen-Pa
 God. Buddhist [Tibet]. The male counterpart of
 KHEN-MA, he controls the demons of heaven,
 attended by a white dog. Attribute: a crystal staff.
 Kherty (lower one)
 Chthonic or earth god. Egyptian. Known from at
 least 2500 BC, Kherty acts as a guardian of royal
 tombs but displays a more ominous aspect threat
ening the soul of the ruler. Pyramid Texts warn
 that the king must be protected from Kherty by
 the sun god RE. Depicted anthropomorphically
 or with the head of a ram.
 Khipa
 Tutelary deity. Hittite and Hurrian. This may be
 an archaic name for the goddess MA. Also Khebe.
 Khnum
 Chthonic or earth god. Egyptian (Upper). Said to
 create human life on a potter’s wheel but strictly
 at the behest of creator deities. He is usually
 seated before a potter’s wheel on which stands a
 naked figure in the process of molding. The
 Khnum cult was principally directed from sanc
tuaries at Esna, north of the first Nile cataract,
 and at Elephantine where mummified rams cov
ered with gold leaf and buried in stone sarcophagi
 have been discovered. Khnum supervises the
 annual Nile flood, which is physically generated
 by the god HAPY. His consort at Esna is the god
dess Menhyt. Khnum is also described at other
 sites as the BA or soul of various deities including
 GEB and OSIRIS. Depicted anthropomorphically
 or with the head of a ram.
 Khon-Ma
 Chthonic goddess. Tibetan. Ruler of a horde 
of demons who live in the earth and who 
may infest houses. She is depicted typically
 wearing yellow robes and with attributes includ
ing a golden noose. Her vehicle is a ram. To
 guard against her influence, a ram’s skull is hung
 from the doorpost of a dwelling and filled with
 offerings.
 Khons(u) (wanderer)
 Moon god. Egyptian (Upper). Recognized from
 at least 2500 BC but best known during the New
 Kingdom (mid-sixteenth century BC). A signifi
cant deity at Thebes, where he is described as an
 offspring of AMUN and MUT. His sacred animal is
 the baboon. There is a Khonsu precinct as part of
 the Temple of Amun in the Karnak complex.
 From the Greco-Roman period there exists a
 sanctuary of Kom-ombo where Khonsu is seen as
 the offspring of the crocodile god SOBEK and the
 mother goddess HATHOR. Depicted anthropo
morphically or with a falcon’s head, but in either
 case enveloped in a close-fitting robe. He wears a
 crown consisting of a crescent moon subtending
 a full moon orb.
 Khyung-Gai mGo-Can
 Local god. Buddhist [Tibet]. Equating to the
 Hindu god GARUDA.
Ki (the great one)
 Klehanoai 161
 Archetypal chthonic principle. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian). According to some traditions, Ki is
 the daughter of ANSˇAR and KISˇAR and consort of
 AN. As the cosmos came into being, An took the
 role of god of heaven and Ki became the person
ification of the earth and underworld. She is the
 mother of the god of the air, ENLIL, with whom
 she descended from the heavens. Some authori
ties argue that she was never regarded as a deity.
 There is no evidence of a cult and the name
 appears in a limited number of Sumerian creation
 texts. The name URASˇ (tilth) may relate. 
See also ANTU(M).
 Kianda
 God of the sea. Kimbundu [Angola, southern
 Africa]. Guardian of the Atlantic Ocean and 
its creatures. Invoked by fishermen who place
 offerings on the shore. His presence may be 
symbolized by a skull.
 Kibuka
 God of war. Buganda [Uganda, East Africa]. The
 brother of the creator god MUKASA, said to reside on
 the island of Sese. According to tradition, he secured
 victory in war for the Buganda by taking the form of
 a cloud which hovered above their enemies and
 rained spears and arrows. He apparently enjoyed a
 succession of temples in the past which housed the
 hidden statue of the god and his sacred shield.
 Kini’ je
 Sky spirit. Yukaghir (eastern Siberia]. The being in
 charge of keeping account of time. Also Ki’njen.
 Kinnar (divine lyre)
 Musician god. Western Semitic. Mentioned in
 Ugaritic texts and known from Phoenicia.
 Probably equating with the Syrian ADONIS. Also
 Kinnur.
 Kinyras
 Local god of metalwork. Greek. Known from
 Cyprus as a magician and smith. Derived from an
 older western Asiatic model. 
See also KOTAR.
 Kirti (glory)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The SAKTI
 of KESAVA. Attribute: waterjar.
 Kis ˇar
 Primordial god(dess). Mesopotamian (Sumerian
 and Babylonian-Akkadian). The consort or equal
 of ANSˇAR and mother or creator of AN and KI in
 the creation cosmos.
 Kitanitowit (good creator)
 Creator god. Algonquin Indian [eastern Canada].
 The first being who is present everywhere in the
 universe. He is invisible and is represented dia
grammatically by a point surrounded by a circle
 on which are marked the four quarters.
 Kiya’rnarak (I exist)
 Supreme being. Inuit. An indistinct and remote
 character, out of touch with ordinary mortals,
 who created the world.
 Klehanoai (night-bearer)
 Moon god. Navaho [USA]. According to tradi
tion, he was created at the same primordial time
 as the dawn, from a crystal bordered with white
 shells. His face is said to be covered with sheet
162 Klotho
 lightning and the sacred primeval waters. The
 moon disc is actually a shield behind which the
 god moves invisibly across the night sky. He is
 never impersonated or depicted. Also Tlehanoai.
 Klotho
 Goddess of spinning. Pre-Homeric Greek.
 According to Hesiod, one of the daughters of
 ZEUS and THEMIS. An ancient deity linked with
 LACHESIS and ATROPOS as one of a trio of MOIRAI
 or Fates. She is depicted with a spindle.
 Kollapura-Mahalaksmi
 Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Six-armed. Attributes:
 club, shield and wine glass.
 Kondos
 God of cereal crops. Pre-Christian Finnish. Par
ticularly identified with the sowing of wheat.
 After Christianization, he was absorbed by the
 figure of St. Urban.
 Kono-Hana-Sakuya-Hime-No-Kami
 Mountain goddess. Shinto [Japan]. The deity
 who guards the sacred Mount Fuji. A daughter
 of O-YAMA-TSU-MI and the consort of Prince
 NINIGI, her shrine is located on the summit 
of the mountain. She is also closely associated
 with Mount Asama about 80 kilometers to the
 north.
 Kore (the girl)
 Youthful goddess of the corn. Greek. The more
 generic name for the goddess PERSEPHONE.
 Identified as the daughter of DEMETER. She is
 the spirit of the corn as distinct from her mother
 who is the giver of the corn. Depicted on coinage
 as a woman’s head adorned with ears of corn.
 She is integral to the Eleusinian Mysteries in
 which she is abducted to Hades, resulting in the
 distress of her mother and the blighting of
 nature. At Samaria-Sebaste in Syrio-Palestine,
 Kore was the only deity worshiped, apart from
 the emperor.
 Korravai
 War goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern India
 and Sri Lanka]. Worshiped in desert regions in
 southern India, thought to live in trees and equat
ing to DURGA. She has a son, MURUKAN. Also
 Katukilal; Korrawi.
 Kotar
 Blacksmith god. Western Semitic (Syrian). Iden
tified in the Ugaritic (Ras S ˇamra) texts as building
 a palace for the god BAAL and forging his weapons
 for the conflict against the sea god YAMM. Known
 also from Phoenician inscriptions. Also Kosˇar,
 Chusor, KINYRAS.
 Kotisri
 Mother goddess. Buddhist. The so-called “mother
 of 7,000 buddhas.”
 Koto-Shiro-Nushi
 God of luck. Shinto [Japan]. Probably syncretized
 early in Shintoism with the god EBISU.
 Kouretes
 Forest deities. Greek. Known from Ephesus and
 other sites as the spirits of trees and streams, they
 are also perceived as nymphs who dance in atten
dance on the baby ZEUS. The term is also applied
 to a bride or young woman.
Kourotrophos
 KRSNA 163
 Obscure wet-nurse goddess. Greek. Known only
 from ritual texts.
 Koyote
 Tutelary god. North American Indian. Recog
nized by several tribes, including the Navaho and
 Apache. He acts as a cult hero who intercedes
 with more remote creator spirits and teaches the
 Indian.
 Kratos
 God of strength. Greek. One of the sons of the
 goddess STYX and brother of BIA (force).
 Kronos
 Archetypal fertility god. Pre-Greek. He is of
 unknown origin but is the son of the earth mother
 GAIA and the sky god OURANOS, whom he
 usurped after castrating him. His consort is RHEA.
 So as not to suffer a similar fate to his father he
 swallowed all his children except ZEUS who was
 kept from him by a ruse. Zeus eventually hurled
 Kronos into Tartaros, the abyss in which all the
 TITANS were confined. He was celebrated in the
 Greek harvest festival of kronia which equalled
 the Roman saturnalia. During Hellenic times he
 was the supreme god at Byblos [Syria]. He is
 depicted on coinage of Antiochus IV (175-164
 BC) nude, leaning on a scepter, with three pairs of
 wings, two spread and one folded.
 KRSNA (the dark one)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India]. Incar
nation of Visˇnu.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 300BCor ear
lier until present.
 SYNONYMS Kannan (Tamil). Many epithets.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT generally throughout India,
 but particularly Mathura.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally bronze but
 also stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Mahabharata epic, Bhagavad
Gita and Bhagavata-Purana. 
Krsna is the eighth and arguably the most impor
tant incarnation or avatara of the god VISˇNU. He
 appears inauspiciously in the Vedic texts, but
 grows in stature and popularity. Allegedly born at
 Mathura on the bank of the river Yamuna, he is
 the son of VASUDEVA and DEVAKI, fostered by
 Nanda and Yasoda. He is a deity who epitomizes
 human aspirations and shortcomings together.
 Thus he is both a Hindu divine hero, and a
 drinker and womanizer. He has no legal consort
 but his chief mistress, a married woman, is
 RADHA. He is reputed to have enjoyed as many as
 16,000 such liaisons.
 Almost certainly, Krsna originated as a fertil
ity god of herdsmen and vegetation who became
 syncretized with the hero of the Mahabharata
 epic. In the Bhagavata-Purana, Krsna is also 
perceived as the embodiment of the cosmos—
 the vault of heaven is his navel, the stars his
 chest, the sky his eyes.
 Krsna’s incarnation was, by tradition,
 designed to save the world from the demonic
 king Kansa. He is particularly worshiped as a
 baby (BALAKRSNA) and as a youthful shepherd
 accompanied by Radha. He is seen as a skilled
 musician often depicted playing the flute at the
 sound of which nature pauses to listen, storms
 are calmed, rivers flow calmly and maidens are
 roused. 
The legends of Krsna’s childhood depict him as
 a somewhat precocious child who plays tricks and
 ransacks kitchen jars of butter and curds. The
 incident with butter has been a popular theme
 for sculptures. As an adult he champions the
 struggle with the adversaries of mankind, the
164 Krsodari
 Kshumai
 nagas, subduing the serpent KALIYA (see also
 GARUDA). He may be seen standing on Garuda.
 Color: black or dark blue. Attributes: flute, the
 hill of Govardhana on one finger, an ornament,
 prayer wheel and shepherd’s staff. He may, on
 occasion, carry other objects.
 Krsodari (thin-waisted)
 Goddess. Hindu. An emaciated form of CAMUNDA,
 a personification of famine. She stands upon a
 corpse. Attributes: club, iron rod, skull and trident.
 Krttika(s)
 Minor goddess(es) of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). Strongly malevolent NAKSATRA(S) con
sisting of the six stars in the Pleiades constellation
 who become nurses of the god SKANDA. (In
 Hindu mythology there are only six Pleiades, not
 the seven recognized in modern astronomy.)
 Ksama (patience)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of the daughters of DAKSA. Attribute: trident.
 Ksantiparamita
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. One of the PARAMI
TAS. Spiritual offspring of RATNASAMBHAVA.
 Color: yellow. Attributes: jeweled banner and
 white lotus.
 Ksetrapala
 God of passage. Hindu (Puranic). Form of the
 god BHAIRAVA specifically designated as a
 guardian deity of doorways. Also regarded as a
 tutelary deity in Saivite temples. Stands upon 
a lotus and possesses a number of attributes.
 Fertility goddess. Kafir [Afghanistan]. A benefi
cent goddess appearing in the guise of a goat.
 Legend has it that either she or her eldest daugh
ter is the mother of the god MON. She is said to
 have given mankind the boon of goats, grapes,
 other fruit and vegetation in general. She was
 called upon in times of sickness. She is depicted in
 wooden statues with prominent long breasts and
 vulva. Also Kime.
 Ksitigarbha (womb of the earth)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Known exten
sively from northern India to China and Japan.
 One of the group of female BODHISATTVAS or 
buddha-designates. Color: yellow or green. Attrib
utes: book, bowl, jewel, staff and water jar. In
 China she is recognized as an underworld deity,
 Di-zang. In Japan she becomes a guardian deity of
 passage, Jizo.
 Ku
 Primordial being. Polynesian [Hawaii]. An aspect
 of a tripartite deity which also includes KANE, the
 light, and LONO, sound. They existed in chaos
 and darkness, which they broke into pieces to
 allow the light to come in.
 KUAN TI
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). God of war. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 300 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Guan Di; Kuan Kung.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout China.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculpture. 
LITERARY SOURCES various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and untranslated.
Kubaba 165
 The most powerful figure in the pantheon, the
 god is based on an historical figure who lived AD
 162-220. He was a general in the imperial army
 and came to prominence after a successful battle
 with the warlord Tung Cho. He was subsequently
 deified.
 The epitome of austerity, loyalty and integrity,
 he is worshiped as the personification of the
 sacred principles of the hsieh or knightly warrior.
 He was the tutelary deity of the Chung emperors
 and is the god of the military, but also of restau
rants, pawn shops, curio dealers and literature.
 He is a guardian of secret societies, including Tri
ads, and brotherhoods, particularly in Hong
 Kong, but also of the police, thus many CID
 offices possess an altar to Kuan Ti, as Kuan Kung.
 He is depicted seated on a tiger skin, sometimes
 with the face of a tiger on the breast of his robe.
 His magical sword is the “black dragon” and his
 horse is the “red hare.” His festivals are celebrated
 on the fifteenth day of the second moon and on the
 thirteenth day of the fifth moon. He thus presides
 over the light half of the year—spring and summer.
 Images of Kuan Ti are kept by most households
 in China, facing the entrance of the building, to
 frighten away evil influences.
 KUAN YIN (hearer of cries)
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). Benign guardian goddess.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa AD100, though
 in various forms, until present. 
SYNONYMS Guan Yin; KWANNON (Japanese).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Chinese culture.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculptures. 
LITERARY SOURCES Various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and untranslated.
 An essentially foreign deity, derived from the
 Buddhist god AVALOKITESVARA, and therefore
 probably of Indian origin. Introduced into
 China as a male deity until circa AD 600 when
 the transition to a goddess began; it was com
pleted by circa AD 1100. Although accepted into
 Taoism, in contrast to all other Chinese deities,
 she is not provided with the normal offerings of
 food and wine.
 An alternative tradition places her in a mortal
 existence as the princess Miao Shan who 
committed suicide by strangling herself and was
 subsequently taken by the BUDDHA to an island,
 P’u T’o, where she spent nine years perfecting
 herself.
 Kuan Yin enjoys a major popularity as a pure
 and benevolent spirit whose influence has
 eclipsed that of the historical Buddha incarna
tion, SAKYAMUNI, in China. Her name is invoked
 if danger threatens and she has strong fertility
 connotations—newly married couples pray to her
 for children.
 Several other Chinese goddesses are consid
ered by some authors to be manifestations of
 Kuan Yin. She frequently shares sanctuaries with
 the queen of heaven, TIN HAU, and has taken
 over part of her area of influence. She is thus
 titled Goddess of the Southern Sea, which is tech
nically an accolade due to Tin Hau.
 Kuan Yin is depicted seated upon a lotus with
 attributes including a vase filled with the dew of
 compassion and a willow branch. Her attendant
 Lung Nu may stand behind her with other
 objects, including a peacock-like bird, pearls and
 a rosary.
 Kubaba
 Mother goddess. Anatolian and northern Syrian.
 She was worshiped particularly at Carchemish
 and seems to equate with the Hittite goddess
 S
 ˇAUS ˇKA. Attributes include pomegranate and mir
ror. Also Gubaba, Kupapa.
166 Kubera
 Kuju
 Kubera (misshapen)
 1. God of riches. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 He was originally the head of the YAKSAS spirits of
 the forests, but by Puranic times was associated
 with wealth and productivity. He is also a dikpala
 guardian of the northern quarter. The son of
 Pulastya and Idavida, his consorts include Yaksi,
 VASUDHARAand Vriddhi. Identified with the city of
 Alaka. He is depicted as a dwarfish figure riding
 upon a Brahman or a chariot. Color: white. Attrib
utes: generally carrying a purse, but occasionally
 with various other items. Also Kuvera, Kauveri.
 2. God of riches. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of a group of DHARMAPALA with terrible appear
ance and royal attire. Also a dikpala or guardian of
 the northern quarter. Color: yellow. Attributes: ax,
 banner, club, cup, hook, Ichneumon disgorging
 jewels, noose, reliquary and occasionally a trident.
 Kubjika (hump-back)
 Goddess of writing. Hindu. Personification of the
 thirty-two Tantric syllables.
 Kubuddhi (stupid)
 Minor goddess. Hindu. One of the consorts of
 GANESA.
 Kucumatz
 Supreme god. Mayan (Quiche Indian, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. An androgynous being
 who created all things out of itself. Comparable
 with KUKULCAN.
 Kuei Shing
 God of literature. Chinese. Believed to reside 
in the star constellation of Ursa Major. Also
 Zhong-Kui.
 Sky spirit. Yukaghir [eastern Siberia]. A benevo
lent being who supplies mankind with food.
 When fish appear in great numbers in the lakes,
 they are thought to have fallen from the sky.
 Kuku-Ki-Waka-Muro-Tsuna-Ne-No
Kami
 Guardian deity. Shinto [Japan]. The god who
 guards the house and its environs as a whole.
 Kukulcan
 Creator god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Kukulcan is, in origin, a Toltec god who
 was adopted by the Mayan culture and who corre
sponds closely with the Aztec deity QUETZAL
COATL. He is chiefly concerned with reincarnation,
 but is also responsible for the elements of fire,
 earth and water. He is depicted with various attrib
utes, including a torch or a lizard representing fire,
 maize for earth, and a fish for water. Also God B.
 Kuku-Toshi-No-Kami
 God of grain. Shinto [Japan]. The deity respon
sible for the harvest of full-grown rice. His
 shrines are often serviced by Buddhist priests.
 Kuladevata (family god)
 Generic name of a household god. Hindu. The
 god is chosen by a family to be their guardian
 deity and they all assemble at his temple, as and
 when necessary, for worship. Also Kulanayaka.
 Kuladevi
 Goddess. Hindu. The female equivalent of a
 KULADEVATA.
Kulika (of good family)
 Kun-Rig 167
 Snake god. Hindu. One of a group of seven
 MAHANAGAS. Attributes: rosary and water jar.
 Three-eyed.
 Kulisankusa (having an ax and a goad)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Kulisesvari (lady of the ax)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Often depicted
 with a corpse. Color: white. Attribute: a staff.
 Kulla
 God of builders. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). The god responsible for
 the creation of bricks.
 Kumari (virgin)
 Goddess. Hindu. Generally recognized to be an
 epithet of DURGA. Worshiped at a famous tem
ple on the southernmost tip of India at Cape
 Comorin. Also known in Nepal, where a 
small girl provides an earthly incarnation of 
the goddess.
 Kumarbi
 Creator god. Hittite and Hurrian. An antique
 deity who was usurped by more “modern” gods.
 He is the father of Ullikummi in Hittite legend.
 Kumokums
 Creator god. Modoc Indian [Oregon, USA]. He
 sat beside Tule Lake, which was all that existed,
 and created the world by scooping out mud to
 form the earth. He added animals and plants, but
 finally became tired and went to sleep in a hole at
 the bottom of the lake, which he dug using a hill
 as a shovel.
 Kunado-No-Kami
 Guardian deity. Shinto [Japan]. One of three
 KAMIS particularly concerned with the protec
tion of roads and crossroads. They also guard
 the boundaries of the house and the ways lead
ing to it. They may be known as Yakushin
 deities who protect against plague. Generally
 identified as MICHI-NO-KAMI or Chiburi-No
Kami.
 Kundalini
 Mother goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The spirit of the earth perceived in
 human form and responsible for the provision of
 all food from the soil. The earth is considered to
 be sacred and should not be owned by any one
 person, but can be utilized for the benefit of the
 community as a whole. Kundalini is believed to
 have been the mother of all other vegetation
 deities.
 Ku’nkunxuliga
 Tribal god. Ma’malelegale Indian [British Colum
bia, Canada]. The personification of the thun
derbird, known to many Indian tribes, who lives
 in a palace in the upper world. The noise of the
 thunder is the beating of its wings.
 Kun-Rig (knowing all)
 God. Buddhist [Tibet]. Four-headed form of
 VAIROCANA. Attribute: prayer wheel.
168 Kuntu bXan Po
 Kus
 Kuntu bXan Po
 Head of pantheon. Bon (pre-Lamaist) [Tibet].
 The chief god in the Bon pantheon, he engen
dered the world from a handful of mud scraped
 from the primeval waters and created all living
 things from an egg.
 Kura-Okami-No-Kami (great producer of
 rain on the heights)
 Rain god. Shinto [Japan]. Known alternatively as
 the “dark rain god,” he may also generate snow falls.
 Kurdaligon
 God of smiths. Ossetian [Caucasus]. He assists
 the passage of dead souls by attending to their
 horses’ shoes.
 Kurma(vatara)
 Incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The second avatara of Visˇnu, Kurma
 appears in the form of a tortoise which acts as a
 pivot for the mountainous churning rod the gods
 employ to make ambrosia from the primal sea of
 milk after the flood. Kurma is depicted with a
 human torso surmounting a tortoise shell. Vis ˇnu is
 said to have appeared in this form in order to
 recover some of the possessions lost during the del
uge. Attributes: club, conch, lotus and prayer wheel.
 Also the name for a vehicle of various deities.
 Kurukulla
 1. Goddess of boats. Hindu. A Tantric deity gen
erally depicted in a boat made of jewels. Also god
dess of wine.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). The SAKTI of
 AMITABHA. Usually of terrifying appearance.
 Attributes: arrow, bow, flower, hook, noose,
 rosary and trident.
 God of herdsmen. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Identified in the Theogony
 of Dunnu.
 Kushi-Dama-Nigi-Haya-Hi (soft fast sun)
 Sun god. Shinto [Japan]. The apotheosis of the
 morning sun sent down by the sun goddess AMAT
ERASU before Prince NINIGI appeared on earth.
 Kushi-Iwa-Mado-No-Mikoto
 Guardian deity. Shinto [Japan]. The god who
 protects entrance gates.
 Kus ˇuh
 Moon god. Hittite and Hurrian [Anatolia]. Also
 KASˇKU.
 Kutji
 Animistic spirits. Australian aboriginal. Malevo
lent beings who conceal themselves in under
growth and rock crevices and manifest as animals
 and birds, including eagles, crows, owls, kangaroos
 and emus. Kutji are considered to have taken over
 wild creatures if their behavior assumes unfamiliar
 patterns. Only shamans may contain the influence
 of these spirits. Otherwise, they possess the poten
tial to inflict disease and death on to human beings.
 Kutkhu
 Guardian spirit. Kemchadal [southeastern
 Siberia]. The counterpart of the Koryak
 QUIKINN.A’QU, he fashioned the created world
 into its present form and is the majordomo of the
 creator god. His consort is Ilkxum and his sister
 is Xutlizic. His children include SI’MSKALIN,
 TI’ZIL-KUTKHU and SI’DUKU. In mythology he is
Kyumbe 169
 depicted as a salacious character. Also Kutq;
 Kutkinnaqu.
 Ku’urkil
 The founder of the world. Chukchee [eastern
 Siberia]. Not only a deity, but a powerful shaman
 and the first human. He equates with the Koryak
 deity QUIKINN.A’QU.
 Kvasir
 Minor god of wisdom. Nordic (Icelandic). By tra
dition he was created from the saliva of the AESIR
 and VANIR deities, who thus combined their
 knowledge into a single being. He was slain by
 dwarfs who concocted a fermented drink from
 his blood, mixed with honey, and this mead
 became the inspiration of poets. He is also iden
tified in Welsh mythology.
 Kwannon
 Form of AVALOKITESVARA. Buddhist [Japan]. 
See also KUAN YIN.
 Kwoth
 Creator god. Nuer [Sudan]. The Nuer people
 have been affected by the expansion of Islam, and
 probably by Christianity, and recognize a
 supreme deity, or spiritual being, responsible for
 all creation. One of his epithets is Tutgar, mean
ing “strong and without limit.”
 KYBELE
 ORIGIN Phrygian [northwestern Turkey]. Mother
 goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC and
 probably much earlier in prehistory, until
 Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS CYBELE (Roman); Kybebe.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Pessinus (Asia Minor) and
 Rome, but also extensively elsewhere.
 ART REFERENCES black obelisk (lost); many clas
sical sculptures; a dish from Parabiago (in
 Milan); possibly the subject of a well-known
 seal from Knossos.
 LITERARY SOURCES votive inscriptions, etc.
 One of the most important of the Asian mother
 goddesses. She probably originates as a mountain
 goddess who became closely equated with the
 Greek mother goddesses RHEA and DEMETER.
 According to legend, the Greek god ZEUS raped
 her and she bore a monstrous son Agdistis. Her
 consort is ATTIS, whom she discovered to be
 unfaithful. In remorse, he castrated himself under
 a pine tree and bled to death.
 In circa 204 BC the black stone by which she was
 personified in Pessinus (Phrygia) was carried to
 Rome and installed in the Temple of Victories on
 the Palatine as Cybele Magna Mater. This fulfilled
 a prophecy that if the “great mother” was brought
 to Rome, the war with the invader Hannibal would
 be won. She is often depicted riding in a chariot
 drawn by panthers or lions and is accompanied by
 frenzied dancers or Korybantes. She was invoked
 in the three-day festival commencing with mourn
ing (tristia) followed by joy (hilaria) in the spring
 during which her emasculated priests, the galloi,
 gashed themselves with knives. Attributes include
 key, mirror and pomegranate.
 Kyumbe
 Creator god. Zaramo [Tanzania, East Africa].
 Tradition has it that the earth and sky may have
 been present before this being emerged. He is,
 however, perceived as having engendered all liv
ing things on earth. He first created animals’ bod
ies without tails. When they had their legs fitted,
 Kyumbe added tails as an afterthought.
6
 L
 Lachesis
 Goddess of lot-casting. Pre-Homeric Greek.
 According to Hesiod one of the daughters of
 ZEUS and THEMIS. One of an ancient trio 
of MOIRAI with KLOTHO and ATROPOS, she sus
tains the thread of life and is depicted carrying
 a scroll.
 Lactanus
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Said to make
 the crops “yield milk” or thrive.
 Laghusyamala (lightly dark colored)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Puranic). Attributes: lute
 and wine glass.
 Lahamu
 Primordial deity. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Known from the Babylonian 
creation epic Enuma Elisˇ as one of a pair who
 were created by TIAMAT from the primeval
 ocean and who, it is suggested, were repre
sented by the silt of the sea-bed. Lahamu and
 LAHMU in turn created ANSˇAR and KISˇAR, who
 created ANU.
 Lahar
 God of cattle. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 According to legend, he was sent to earth by the
 gods ENLIL and ENKI, to work in conjunction
 with the grain goddess ASˇNAN. In iconography
 he usually has ears of corn sprouting from his
 shoulders. He may also carry a bow and club and
 is often depicted with a ram at his feet.
 Lahmu
 Primordial deity. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Known from the Babylonian creation
 epic Enuma Elisˇ as one of a pair who were created
 by TIAMAT from the primeval ocean and who, it 
is suggested, were represented by the silt of the
 sea-bed. Lahmu and LAHAMU in turn created
 ANSˇAR and KISˇAR, who created ANU.
 Laima
 Goddess of fate. Pre-Christian Latvian. Particu
larly concerned with guarding women at child
birth, and with the newborn. Regarded as a
 household goddess of prosperity and good fortune.
 Laka
 Goddess of dancing. Polynesian [Hawaii]. A
 minor deity who is nonetheless greatly revered by
 170
Lan Cai-he 171
 islanders in a hedonistic cult of song, dance and
 sexual liberality.
 Laksmana (with auspicious marks)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A half- or
 younger brother of the god RAMA. The son of
 Dasaratha and Sumitra, his consort is Urmita. He
 often stands to the left of Rama and may be
 depicted holding a bow (see also SATRUGHNA).
 Color: golden. Attributes: bow and ornaments.
 LAKSMI
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India]. Con
sort of Visˇnu.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 300 BC and
 earlier, through to present times.
 SYNONYMS Sri-Laksmi; Sri-Devi; DHARANI
 (earth); see also SITA.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no temples, but revered gen
erally throughout India.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally bronze but
 also stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana and Mahabharata
 epics; Puranic literature.
 A major Hindu goddess who originated perhaps
 as a mother goddess but who now represents
 wealth and prosperity and epitomizes the later
 Hindu (Brahmanical) notion of the active female
 principle or SAKTI in a male deity. According to
 the Ramayana, she arose from the primal Hindu
 sea of milk. Identified as the consort of VISˇNU
 from circa AD 400 onward, she is generally
 depicted as a beautiful golden-skinned woman
 possessing four, or more commonly two, arms.
 She stands or rests on a lotus which may be
 watered by two attendant elephants. Another
 favored portrait finds her washing Visˇnu’s feet as
 he reclines on the thousand-headed serpent
 Sesha, an action which is said to bring Visˇnu
 dreams. She emerges in many guises, changing
 form as Visˇnu changes his own incarnations. She
 is perceived also to emerge as the black-skinned
 and destructive KALI. Many attributes, but most
 commonly a lotus.
 Laksmi embodies the model Hindu wife, faith
ful and subservient. She may be depicted on the
 knee of Visˇnu’s avatara NARAYANA as Laksmi
Narayana. She is reincarnated with each of his
 other avatars—thus beside RAMA she becomes
 Sita, said to have been born from a furrow, and
 with KRSNA she is first RADHA, then RUKMINI.
 She is worshiped particularly at the start of the
 business year in India. In the Divali (Feast of
 Lamps) on the last day of the dark lunar period
 toward the end of October or early in November,
 every household lights a lamp in honor of Laksmi.
 She is also propitiated by gambling.
 Lalaia’il
 God of shamans. Bella Coola Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. The deity who initiates into
 the shamanistic circle. He lives in the forest and
 carries a wooden wand bound with cedar bark
 which he waves, creating a singing noise. He also
 frequents woodland lakes and ponds. When a
 woman meets him she is said to menstruate, while
 a man develops a nose bleed. Also Kle-klati-e’il.
 Lamaria
 Tutelary goddess. Svan [Caucasus]. Particularly
 invoked by women as a hearth goddess and pro
tector of cows. Her name may have been derived
 under Christian influence.
 Lan Cai-he
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, the deity
 is of ambiguous sex, sometimes depicted as a girl.
172 Lao-Tsze
 Larunda
 Once a mortal being who achieved immortality
 through perfect lifestyle. Attributes include flow
ers and a flute. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Lao-Tsze
 God. Taoist (Chinese). Also known as the Most
 High Prince Lao, he is one of the three holy San
 Ch’ing whose images stand in a Taoist sanctuary.
 The tutelary god of alchemists. He is the founder
 of Taoism who, according to tradition was born
 with full command of speech, and with white hair,
 under a plum tree. His sacred animal is the water
 buffalo.
 Lar Familiaris
 Ancestral spirit. Roman. A personal and vaguely
 defined deity brought into the house from the
 surrounding land.
 Lara See LARUNDA.
 Laran
 God of war. Etruscan. Depicted as a youth
 armed with a lance and helmet and dressed in a
 cape.
 Lares
 Hearth deities. Roman. The lares are a peculiarly
 Roman innovation. Two children, born of a liai
son between the god Mercury and a mute naiad,
 Lara, whose tongue had been cut out by Jupiter,
 became widely revered by Romans as house
 guardians. Iconographically they are depicted in
 the guise of monkeys covered with dog skins with
 a barking dog at their feet.
 See also LARUNDA, MERCURIUS.
 Chthonic goddess. Sabine. An early Italic earth
 mother who, in Roman times, according to some
 traditions, became the mother of the LARES. Also
 Lara (Roman).
 Lasya (dancing girl)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of the group of ASTAMATARAS (mothers). She is
 generally depicted dancing the lasya dance.
 Color: white. Attribute: a mirror. Also the generic
 name of a group of four goddesses, including
 GITA, MALA, NRTYA and headed by LASYA.
 Latipan
 Creator god. Canaanite. 
See also IL.
 Lau
 Spirit beings. Andaman Islands [Sea of Bengal].
 Generally invisible but perceived in human
 form and living in the jungles and the sea.
 When an Andaman islander dies he or she
 becomes a lau.
 Lauka Mate
 Goddess of agriculture. Pre-Christian Latvian.
 Worshiped in the fields at ploughing time.
 Laukika-Devatas
 Generic name for a group of deities. Hindu. Gods
 known from local folklore as distinct from those
 of the Vedic texts.
 Laverna
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Italic. Propitiated
 by libations poured with the left hand.
LEBIEN-POGIL (owner of the earth)
 Lesa 173
 Lelwani
 ORIGIN Yukaghir [southeastern Siberia]. Ani
mistic “owner” spirit.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until early twentieth century.
 SYNONYMS none known.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no fixed sanctuaries known.
 ART REFERENCES none known, but possibly the
 subject of anonymous wood carvings. 
LITERARY SOURCES The Yukaghir (Jochelson).
 The chief protector of the earth. His subordi
nates are YOBIN-POGIL, the owner of the forest;
 the owner of fire LO’CIN-PO’GIL; the various
 protectors and keepers of animals (mo’yepul)
 and individual or group protectors (PEJU’LPE).
 The Yukaghir, as a hunting people, maintained a
 delicate and sensitive relationship with these
 owners.
 Legba
 God of fate. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. The
 youngest son of the supreme god LISA and his
 consort, the moon goddess MAWU. He is also
 regarded as a messenger god, moving between
 Lisa and mankind on earth.
 Lei Kung
 God of thunder. Taoist (Chinese). He heads the
 deities of the pantheon who are responsible for
 storm, wind and rain and is usually accompanied
 by YU SHIH, the god of rain. He appears in
 anthropomorphic form from about the beginning
 of the Christian era, depicted as a strong, youth
ful figure holding hammer and chisel. In drama
 his movements are punctuated by rumblings on
 strings and drums. Circa AD 1000 he becomes
 depicted as a bird-like being with a monkey face.
 The transition was probably influenced by the
 popularity of the Hindu god GARUDA.
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Hittite and Hur
rian. Associated with charnel houses and probably
 modeled on the Sumerian ERESˇKIGAL.
 Lendix-Tcux
 Tutelary god. Chilcotin Indian [British Columbia,
 Canada]. The so-called transformer known by
 different names among many Indian tribes. He is
 a wanderer who can change shape from human to
 animal and who educates the human race. He
 often appears in the guise of a raven, or as a dog,
 and has three sons.
 LENUS
 ORGIN Celtic (Continental European). God of
 healing.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Iovantucarus; Lenus Mars (Romano
Celtic).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT left bank of the Moselle
 opposite Trier; also at Chedworth (England)
 and Caerwent (Wales).
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, stone reliefs, votive
 plaques.
 LITERARY SOURCES Romano-Celtic inscriptions.
 A god of healing worshiped by the Celtic tribe of
 Treveri but later adopted by the Romans. The
 Trier sanctuary was a place of pilgrimage where
 large numbers of offerings were deposited, and
 carvings suggest that child patients were often
 present. Lenus’s sanctuaries were usually associ
ated with springs and some, if not all, had an aba
ton or room for recuperation.
 Lesa
 Creator god. southeastern African. The name
 by which the supreme deity is known across a
174 LETO
 wide area of Zambia and Zimbabwe. Equating to
 LISA in regions of West Africa. Also regarded as
 a rain god. Probably strongly influenced by
 Islam and, to a lesser extent, by Christianity.
 Also Leza.
 LETO
 ORIGIN Greek. Mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC but
 probably earlier through to Christianization
 (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Lato (Dorian); Latona (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Lycia and Phaistos, Crete.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad (Homer); Theogony
 (Hesiod).
 The word “Leto” is a local term for lady. The
 Greek goddess probably derives from an earlier
 western Asiatic model. She is the daughter of the
 TITANS Koeos and Phoebe. Leto’s main claim to
 celebrity in Greek religion is that she was impreg
nated by ZEUS to become the mother of the
 deities ARTEMIS and APOLLO. She often tries to
 protect Artemis from the wrath of her step
mother, HERA. Also a guardian goddess of graves.
 A very early bronze image of her was discovered,
 with those of Apollo and Artemis, at Dreros on
 Crete. In Lycia she was the principal goddess,
 while at Phaistos she was the center of an initia
tion myth.
 Leukothea
 Sea goddess. Greco-Roman. Popular around the
 coasts of the Mediterranean with fishing com
munities. A mermaid who was originally Ino, a
 mortal daughter of Kadmos. She was wet nurse
 to DIONYSOS (BACCHUS), but became mad and
 threw herself in the sea with her son Melikertes.
 In another version of the story she was escaping
 the wrath of Athamas, King of Thebes. The gods
 elevated her to the status of goddess and her son
 became the god PALAEMON.
 Lha
 Generic term for a deity. Buddhist-Lamaist
 [Tibet]. Also the title for a deity in the old Bon
 pantheon, equating to the Sanskrit term DEVA.
 Lha-Mo (the goddess)
 Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. Coming
 from the old Bon pantheon and equating with
 the Hindu goddess SRIDEVI.
 Li Tie-guai
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, he was
 once a mortal being who achieved immortality
 through his lifestyle.
 Attributes include a bat, a gourd and an iron
 crutch. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Lianja
 God. Nkundo [Democratic Republic of Congo,
 central Africa]. He became the subject of an epic
 known as Nsongo and Lianja and is regarded today
 less as a god than a heroic figure, probably under
 the influence of Christianity.
 Libanza
 Creator god. Bangala [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. One of a pair of
 supreme deities with his sister/consort Nsongo.
 He lives at the bottom of the river Congo, trav
eling the waterways and bringing floods as pun
ishment as well as to generate prosperity. He is
Liu Pei 175
 regarded as being generally benevolent. Also
 Ibanza.
 Liber
 Chthonic fertility god. Italic. Originally associ
ated with husbandry and crops but then assimi
lated with DIONYSOS. The consort of CERES and
 father of the goddess LIBERA. His festival, the 
Liberalia, was on March 17 when young men 
celebrated the arrival of manhood.
 Libera
 Chthonic goddess. Italic. The daughter of LIBER
 and CERES.
 Liberalitas
 Minor god. Roman. Spirit of generosity, employed
 as a propaganda vehicle by the emperors. Wor
shiped particularly from the second century BC.
 Libertas
 Minor god(dess). Roman. Deity of constitutional
 government and the notion of freedom, known
 particularly from the second century BC. Attrib
utes include the scepter, lance and a special hat,
 the pileus, which emancipated slaves were permit
ted to wear as a sign of their liberation.
 Líbitina
 Chthonic goddess of death. Roman. Associated
 with funerals and interment.
 Lietna’irgin (genuine dawn)
 Spirit of the dawn. Chukchee [eastern Siberia].
 One of four beings concerned with the dawn in
 different directions. 
See also TNE’SGAN, MRATNA’IRGIN and NA’
CHITNA’IRGIN.
 Lilith
 Goddess of desolation. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). She is perceived as a demonic figure who, in
 the epic legend of Gilgamesˇ and the Huluppu Tree
 takes up residence in INANA’S holy tree growing
 on the banks of the Euphrates in Unug. When
 the hero Gilgamesˇ attacks Lilith she escapes into
 the desert wastes.
 Liluri
 Mountain goddess. Western Semitic (Syrian).
 The consort of the weather god Manuzi, her
 sacred animal is the bull.
 Linga
 Symbol representing a god. Hindu. The phallic
 form of S ˇIVA.
 Lir
 God. Celtic (Irish). The father of the sea god
 MANANNAN, the consort of Aobh and later of her
 sister Aoife. He had four children by Aobh: AED,
 Conn, Fiachra and Fionnuala. Out of jealousy
 Aoife turned the four into swans and set father
 and children against one another.
 Lisa
 Creator god. Fon and others [Benin, West
 Africa]. Probably the equivalent of LESA in parts
 of East Africa. The supreme deity, whose more or
 less monotheistic role may have been influenced
 by the spread of Islam and Christianity.
 Liu Pei
 God. Taoist (Chinese). The third member of a
 trio of deities with KUAN TI and CHANG FEI. He
 is the embodiment of the imperial ideal and he
176 Llew Llaw Gyffes
 Lodur
 carries the seal of heaven’s authority. He is con
sidered to be humane and moderate. In art he
 usually takes a central position between Chang
 Fei on his left and Kuan Ti on his right.
 Llew Llaw Gyffes
 God. Celtic (Welsh). The counterpart of the Irish
 god LUG. The son of ARIANRHOD, he was raised
 by GWYDION. The heroic figure of Lancelot may
 be derived from him.
 Loa
 Spirit beings. Puerto Rico and Haiti. The gods of
 the voodoo cult who were originally imported by
 slaves from West Africa. An amount of Christian
 influence is present in their makeup.
 Loba
 Sun god. Duala [Cameroon, West Africa]. Local
 people pray to this deity after sunset to ensure
 that he will appear again the following morning.
 Locana (the eye)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). The SAKTI of a
 DHYANIBUDDHA (spiritual meditation buddha), 
generally AKSOBHYA or VAIROCANA. Color: blue
 or white. Attributes: cup, prayer wheel and lotus
 with one or more staves. Also BUDDHALOCANA.
 Lo’cin-coro’mo
 Hearth spirit. Yukaghir [southeastern Siberia].
 The guardian of the household who migrates
 with the family. Also Lo’cil, Yegi’le.
 Lo’cin-po’gil
 Fire spirit. Yukaghir [southeastern Siberia]. One
 of the “owners,” the apotheosis of fire.
 Creator god. Germanic. Mentioned in passing in
 the creation mythology as being one of a trio of
 deities, with Odin and HOENIR, who engendered
 mankind.
 See also OTHIN.
 Logos
 Primordial spirit of reason. Greek. A concept pro
moted by the Stoics, who perceived Logos as the
 mind of JUPITER, but more generally recognized
 as the divine essence from which all deities arise.
 Philo of Alexandria apportioned human charac
teristics to Logos. The Gnostic Christian, Valenti
nus, identified Logos as the word coming from the
 mind of the father. The Christian father Clement
 of Alexandria claimed it to be the first principle of
 the universe, while Origen perceived it as the prin
ciple embodied in the flesh by Jesus Christ.
 Lokapala (protectors of the world)
 Guardians of the four directions. Hindu and 
Buddhist. Often placed in pairs at the entrance 
to tombs.
 Lokesvara (lord of the world)
 Generic name for a group of deities. Buddhist.
 These are thought to be a syncretization of Hindu
 and Buddhist deities and include such gods as
 S
 ˇ IVA, VISˇNU and others which have come to 
be defined as forms of a primeval buddha or
 DHYANIBUDDHA. The lokesvara are usually repre
sented by a small figure, identified as ADIBUD
DHAor AMITABHA, which rests on the head of the
 main statue. Also a group name for the many
 forms of the Buddhist deity AVALOKITESVARA.
 LOKI
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). Ambivalent character
 well represented in mythology. 
Lu Pan 177
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD 700) until Christianization (circa AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS Lopt.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none evidenced and proba
bly Loki was not worshiped as the other Asgard
 deities.
 ART REFERENCES probably the subject of anony
mous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo).
 Loki is a mischievous, Machiavellian, humor
ous, sometimes sinister character. Snorri
 describes him as being “pleasing and handsome
 in appearance, evil in character, very capricious
 in behavior.” He is the “poor relation” among
 the gods who has strong affinities with the
 giants, particularly at Ragnarok (doom) when
 he steers their ship, and whose loyalties are
 always suspect. Said to be the son of the giant
 Farbauti. He is also a scandal-monger. He was
 indirectly responsible for the death of BALDER
 (directly so according to Snorri) and fought
 with HEIMDALL. Sometimes he appears as a
 hero rescuing gods from various predicaments
 through cunning. He also stands for evil,
 though less often, and was compared strongly
 by Christian times with the Devil. Able to
 change shape at will—said at various times to
 have impersonated a mare, flea, fly, falcon, seal
 and an old crone. As a mare he gave birth to
 OTHIN’S horse Sleipnir and he also allegedly
 sired the world serpent, the mistress of the
 netherworld, Hel, and the wolf Fenrir which
 will devour the sun at Ragnarok.
 One of his prominent attributes, said to 
come from antiquity, is that of accomplished
 thief, stealing at various times FREYJA’S neck
lace, THOR’S belt and iron gloves, and the
 apples of youth. There is little to support 
the notion of Loki (Wagnerian: Loge) as a 
fire god other than similarity of name—logi, 
meaning fire.
 Loko
 God of trees. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. The
 brother of the hearth goddess AYABA. Invoked
 particularly by herbalists before obtaining medi
cines from the bark and leaves of forest trees.
 Lomo
 Goddess of peace. Ngbandi [Democratic Repub
lic of Congo, central Africa]. One of seven deities
 invoked at sunrise each day.
 Lono (sound)
 Primordial being. Polynesian [Hawaii]. An aspect
 of a tripartite god which also includes KANE, the
 light, and KU, stability. They first existed in chaos
 and night which they broke into pieces, allowing
 light to come in. Also Ono (Marquesas Islands).
 Lothur
 God of physical senses. Nordic (Icelandic).
 According to a brief mention in the Voluspa
 (Poetic Edda) the god concerned with physical
 being i.e. sight, hearing and speech. According to
 some authors he may be a hypostasis of the god
 OTHIN. Lothur is also known in northern Ger
manic tradition. Also LODUR.
 Lu Dong-bin
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, he was once
 a mortal being who achieved immortality through
 his lifestyle. The tutelary god of barbers. Attributes
 include a sword with which he conquers demons. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Lu Pan
 God of artisans. Chinese. The deity concerned
 with builders, bricklayers, housepainters and
178 Lubanga
 carpenters. He is particularly revered in Hong
 Kong. According to tradition he was born in 606
 BC in the kingdom of Lu, where he became a
 skilled carpenter. He turned into a recluse on
 the Li Shan mountain, where he perfected his
 skills. He is said to have constructed the palace
 of the queen of the western heaven. Because of
 his powers he was murdered. He is also an
 invoker of harmonious relationships. His festival
 takes place on the thirteenth day of the sixth
 month, when the rains are due. Attributes
 include a set square and carpenter’s plane. He is
 also depicted with an ax, the symbol of a mar
riage go-between.
 Lubanga
 God of health. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa].
 He is invoked by offerings of beer and his sanc
tuaries are surrounded by rows of trees.
 Lubangala
 Rainbow god. Bakongo [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. The chief adversary of the
 storm god. He stills the thunder and makes his
 appearance in the sky. Considered to be the
 guardian of the earth and sea, including the vil
lage and its community.
 Lucina
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. Concerned with
 bringing the child into the light. Usually associ
ated with CANDELIFERA and CARMENTES.
 LUG (possibly lynx)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Lord of skills.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP early times until
 Christianization circa AD 400 or later.
 SYNONYMS Lugh, Lamfhada.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Lugudunum (modern
 Lyons) and elsewhere in Continental Europe;
 possibly brought to Ireland in the first century
 BC by settlers from Gaul.
 ART REFERENCES various stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of Kings.
 The texts infer that Lug was a latecomer to the
 Irish pantheon, a tribal god who was particularly
 skilled in the use of a massive spear and a sling
 both of which possessed invincible magic proper
ties. One of his epithets is lamfhada—“of the long
 arm.” A young and apparently more attractive
 deity than the DAGDA. The main festival in his
 honor seems to have been Lugnasad on August 1, a
 particularly agrarian celebration in a country which
 otherwise tended to observe pastoral calendar
 dates, suggesting again that Lug was a later arrival
 who possibly superseded an arcane tribal god TRO
GRAIN. An alternative name for the August festival
 was Bron Trograin (Rage of Trograin). It is inferred
 that, like many Celtic deities, Lug was capable of
 changing shape, hence the possible translation of
 the name as lynx. There appear to be strong
 Romano-Celtic associations in Continental
 Europe and Britain with place names such as
 Lugudunum [Lyons] and Luguvalium [Carlisle].
 Lugal-Irra
 Chthonic underworld god. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Probably a
 minor variation of ERRA, the Babylonian plague
 god. The prefix Lugal means “lord.” Often cou
pled with MES LAM TAEA, god of war.
 Lulal
 God of uncertain status. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Mentioned as liv
ing in Badtíbira in the Sumerian text Descent of
 Inana. Also linked with a god Latarak.
Luna
 Lupercus 179
 Moon goddess. Roman. She derives from the
 Greek model of SELENE, but is also comparable
 with HEKATE. She enjoyed a major temple on the
 Aventine Hill in Rome.
 Lunang
 River goddess. Kafir [Afghanistan—Hindukush].
 The patron goddess of the Prasun river, Lunang
 is perceived as a young and capricious girl, reflect
ing the turbulent moods of the river. She rules
 over the watermills.
 Lupercus
 God of wolves. Roman. Celebrated in the festival
 of Lupercalia on February 15.
6
 M
 Ma
 Fertility and vegetation goddess. Cappadocian
 (Anatolia) [Turkey]. The tutelary goddess of Pon
tic Comana, she was served by votary priestesses
 acting as sacred prostitutes, and biennial festivals
 were celebrated in her honor. Gradually she took
 on an added role as a warrior goddess with solar
 connotations and ultimately became syncretized
 with the Roman goddess BELLONA. On coins of
 the Comana region she is depicted with the radi
ate head of a solar deity carrying weapons and a
 shield.
 Ma Kiela
 Female spirit being. Bakongo [Democratic
 Republic of Congo, central Africa]. The deified
 head of a band of mortal women who died specif
ically from knife wounds.
 Maat
 Minor goddess of cosmic order. Egyptian. Epit
omizing the harmonious laws of the cosmic order.
 She is recognized from the middle of the third
 millennium, and probably earlier, closely associ
ated with the creator deities and particularly the
 sun god. In later times she was described as the
 “daughter of Re.” Her only known sanctuary is in
 the complex of Karnak at Thebes. Maat is
 depicted either in human form wearing an ostrich
 plume on her head or by an ostrich feather alone.
 The rulers of Egypt believed that they governed
 under her aegis and frequently had themselves
 described as “beloved of Maat.” Maat was also
 integral to the success of a soul passing through
 the Hall of the Two Truths, where the heart was
 weighed, to reach paradise.
 Mabon (son)
 God of youth. Celtic (Welsh). The son of an
 earthly mother, MODRON. According to legend he
 was abducted when three days old. Also a god of
 hunters and fishermen. He is known particularly
 from northwestern Britain and his cult extends
 along the region of Hadrian’s Wall. Known from
 many Romano-Celtic inscriptions and syncretized
 with the Romano-Greek god APOLLO.
 Macha
 Fertility goddess. Celtic (Irish). One of the aspects
 of the MORRIGAN (a trio of warrior goddesses with
 strong sexual connotations), she appears as the
 consort of Nemed and of Crunnchu. She is also a
 warrior goddess who influences the outcome of
 battle by magical devices. She can change shape
 180
Maha-Ganapati 181
 from girl to hag and is generally dressed in red.
 She is depicted with red hair. She appears thus to
 the Irish hero, Cu Chulainn, before the Battle of
 Moytura when she suddenly changes herself into
 a crow, the harbinger of death. Heads of slaugh
tered soldiers were fixed on the so-called Pole of
 Macha, and the ancient religious center of Emain
 Macha in Ulster is named after her. 
See also Banbha, ERIU and Fodla.
 Madhukara (honey maker)
 God. Buddhist. Derived from a Hindu deity and
 equating with Kama. He rides in a chariot drawn
 by parrots. Color: white. Attributes: arrow, ban
ner, bow and wine glass.
 Maeve
 Mother goddess. Celtic (Irish). The mythical
 Queen of Connaught. According to tradition her
 consort is Ailill and she represents the “Sover
eignty of Ireland” at Connaught. She is thus the
 apotheosis of the land which is sacred.
 Mafdet
 Minor goddess. Egyptian. She acts as a guardian
 against snakes and scorpions. She is depicted in
 the form of a panther, often with the instrument
 of an executioner.
 Magha
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Mah
 Moon god. Persian [Iran]. The progenitor of the
 cow, typically depicted with the tips of a sickle
 moon projecting from his shoulders.
 Mahabala  (very strong)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A fearsome emana
tion of AMITABHA and a dikpala (guardian) of the
 northwestern quarter. Color: red. Attributes:
 jewel, snakes, sword, tiger skin, trident and white
 fly whisk. Three-headed.
 Mahabja
 Snake god. Hindu (Puranic). One of a group of
 seven MAHANAGAS.
 Mahacinatara (Tara of Tibet)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana) and Lamaist
 [Tibet]. An emanation of AKSOBHYA and, in
 Lamaism, a fearsome form of the Vajrayana god
dess, EKAJATA, who may be depicted with up to
 twelve heads and twenty-four hands. She stands
 upon a corpse. Attributes: arrow, ax, blue lotus,
 bow, cup, image of Aksobhya on crown, knife,
 skull, snake, staff, sword, tiger skin and trident.
 Three-eyed.
 Mahadeva (mighty god)
 God. Hindu (Puranic). An important epithet of
 S
 ˇ IVA with three heads (two male, one female) 
signifying the three aspects—Aghora (right),
 Saumya (center) and Sakti (left). Attributes: ax,
 bell, hook, mirror, noose, staff, sword, tree and
 trident. Also identified as a manifestation of S ˇiva
 and one of the EKADASARUDRAS (eleven forms of
 RUDRA). In northern India among tribes includ
ing the Gonds, the expression Mahadeo (great
 god) is directed toward S ˇiva as the supreme deity.
 Maha-Ganapati
 Elephant god. Hindu (Puranic). This form of 
the god GANESA possesses ten arms instead of the
 more normal four and may have a goddess, 
BUDDHI or SIDDHI, seated on the knee.
182 Mahakala
 to be personifications of amulets or mantras. Also
 Mahakala (the great death)
 1. God. Hindu (Puranic). A violent aspect of S ˇIVA.
 His SAKTI is Mahakah. Rides upon a lion. Color:
 black. Attributes: five arrows, ax, Brahma-egg, club,
 cup, rosary of skulls, staff and trident. Three-eyed.
 Also considered to be a form of the god BHAIRAVA
 in which context he is a guardian of the faith.
 2. Guardian god of tents and science. Buddhist
Lamaist [Tibet]. Derived from the Hindu god
 S
 ˇiva and an emanation of the five DHYANIBUD
DHAS. Also one of a group of DHARMAPALAS with
 terrible appearance and royal attire. A deity of
 riches. He treads on the god Vinayaka, or on a
 man, a corpse, or on two elephant-headed men.
 Color: black, blue or white. Attributes: mainly
 elephant skin, prayer wheel and trident, but may
 hold various other objects.
 Mahakali
 1. Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 2. Form of the goddess KALI. Hindu. Also a
 SAKTI of MAHAKALA. Attributes: conch, cup,
 headdress, hook, knife, noose, rosary of skulls,
 staff, sword, waterjar and wheel.
 Mahakapi (great ape)
 God. Buddhist. Epithet of the BUDDHA in a pre
vious incarnation, appearing as an ape.
 Mahamanasika (great-minded)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Mahamantranusarini (following the great
 sacred text)
 Guardian goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 five MAHARAKSAS (protectresses) who are thought
 an emanation of the DHYANIBUDDHA RATNASAMB
HAVA, alternatively of AKSOBHYA. She is a guardian
 of the west, south and eastern quarters according to
 separate traditions. Color: blue, black, green, white
 or red. Attributes: most commonly noose and staff.
 From four to twelve arms; may be three-headed.
 Mahamataras
 Group of goddesses. Hindu. Personifications of
 the SAKTI of the god S ˇIVA.
 Mahamayuri (great daughter of the peacock)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An extremely
 popular deity and an emanation of AMOGHASID
DHI. A female BODHISATTVA or buddha-designate.
 Also one of a group of five MAHARAKSAS (protec
tresses) who are thought to be personifications of
 amulets or mantras. Color: green, red or yellow.
 Attributes: alms bowl, arrow, banner, bow, fly
 whisk, image of Amoghasiddhi on crown, jewel,
 mendicant, peacock feather, prayer wheel, sword
 and water jar. Three-eyed and may occasionally
 appear three- or four-headed.
 Mahanaga
 Snake god. Hindu. A group of seven deities iden
tical with a group of seven nagadevas.
 Mahapadma (great lotus)
 Snake god. Hindu. Attributes: rosary and water
jar. Three-eyed.
 Mahaparinirvanamurti
 God. Buddhist. The depiction of the BUDDHA
 lying in nirvana (paradise).
Mahaprabhu
 Mahasthama(prapta) 183
 Tutelary god. Orissa [India]. The local supreme
 deity of the Bondo tribe.
 Mahapratisara (great protectress)
 Guardian goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 five MAHARAKSAS (protectresses) who are thought
 to be personifications of amulets or mantras. A
 guardian of the central or southern direction.
 Also an emanation of the DHYANIBUDDHA RAT
NASAMBHAVA. Color: yellow. Attributes: arrow, ax,
 banner, bow, conch, image of Ratnasambhava on
 crown, jewel, noose, parasol, prayer wheel, reli
quary, sword, staff and trident. Three-headed and
 three-eyed.
 Mahapratyangira (great goddess whose
 speech is directed westwards)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 the DHYANIBUDDHA AKSOBHYA. Color: blue.
 Attributes: hook, image of Aksobhya on crown,
 noose, red lotus, sword and trident.
 Maharaksa (great protectress)
 Group of guardian goddesses. Buddhist. Person
ifications of amulets or mantras. Common attrib
ute: a parasol.
 Maharatri (the great night)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Associated
 with KALI and KAMALA.
 Mahasahaspramardani (the thousand fold
 destroyer)
 Goddess. Buddhist. An emanation of VAIROCANA,
 and one of the MAHARAKSAS. Color: white.
 Attributes: particularly noose, prayer wheel and
 sword, but also depicted with other objects
 including image of Vairocana on crown. May be
 four-headed.
 Maha-Sarasvati
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). An emanation of
 LAKSMI. Attributes: book, hook, lute and rosary.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist. A variety of SARASVATI.
 Depicted upon a lotus. Color: white. Attributes:
 garland of pearls and white lotus.
 Mahasitavati (great cold one)
 Guardian goddess. Buddhist. One of a group 
of five MAHARAKSAS (protectresses) who are
 thought to be personifications of amulets or
 mantras. Also an emanation of the DHYANIBUD
DHA AMITABHA (or sometimes RATNASAMB
HAVA). A guardian of the north or west quarter.
 Color: red, yellow or green. Attributes: arrow,
 ax, banner, book, bow, bowl, image of Amitabha
 on the crown, lotus, noose, peacock feather,
 staff, sword and trident. Three-eyed and may be
 three-headed.
 Mahasri-Tars (of great beauty)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AMOGHASIDDHI. Depicted seated upon a moon.
 Color: green. Attributes: image of Amoghasiddhi
 and lotuses.
 Mahasthama(prapta) (he who has attained
 great power)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A dhyanibodhisattva
 who personifies great wisdom. Color: white or
 yellow. Attributes: lotus, six lotuses and sword.
 (May have no attributes present.)
184 Mahavidya
 Mahavidya
 Collective name of a group of goddesses. Bud
dhist (Mahayana). Ten personifications of SAKTI
 as the femaleness of S ˇIVA, associated with the pos
session of knowledge.
 Mahayasa (most glorious)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Maheo (all-spirit)
 Creator god. Cheyenne [USA]. He first lived in
 the void and then created the great primordial
 water of life. He made the earth from a ball of
 mud and engendered mankind from one of his
 ribs which he implanted in earth woman (Chris
tian influence has probably been exerted here).
 Mahes
 Sun god. Egyptian. An ancient deity worshiped
 chiefly in the region of the Nile delta and repre
senting the destructive power of the sun’s heat.
 Depicted in the form of a lion. Also Miysis
 (Greek).
 Mahesvari
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism became one of a
 group of seven MATARAS regarded as of evil
 intent. Also one of eight ASTAMATARAS. In another
 grouping one of a group of nine NAVASAKTIS who,
 in southern India, rank higher than the SAPTA
MATARAS. Attributes: antelope, arrow, ax, bow,
 club, drum, prayer wheel, staff and trident.
 Mahi (earth)
 Minor goddess of sacrifice. Hindu (Vedic). She is
 invoked to appear on the sacrificial field before a
 ritual, and is identified with the act of prayer.
 Usually associated with the goddess SARASVATI.
 Mahisa (buffalo)
 Demonic god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic).
 Depicted most frequently in the form of a buffalo,
 but he also confounds the gods by changing him
self into many other animal guises. He is eventu
ally slain by the goddess DEVI in the form of
 MAHISASURAMARDINI.
 Mahisasuramardini (slayer of the buffalo
 demon)
 Form of the goddess DEVI. Hindu (Puranic).
 Appearing from the fourth century AD onward,
 this goddess is a DURGA form of Devi. She pos
sesses up to twelve arms holding an assortment of
 weapons and may be seated on a lion. According
 to legend, the form arose in response to the threat
 from the demonic MAHISA who was eventually
 slain by the goddess Devi with his own sword.
 Attributes: ax, banner, bell, bow, club, conch,
 drum, hook, lizard, mirror, noose, prayer wheel,
 shield, sword, staff and trident. Three-eyed.
 Mahodadhi (the great ocean)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Mahrem
 Head of pantheon. Axumite (ancient Ethiopic
 kingdom). A warrior deity after whom the 
Axumite kings titled themselves “sons of
 MAHREM.”
 Mahuikez
 Fire god. Polynesian. Identified with earthquakes
 and possibly paralleling TOUIA FATUNA (iron
 stone goddess) in Tongan belief.
Maia
 Malamanganga’e 185
 Maju
 Chthonic or earth goddess. Greco-Roman. Orig
inally, in pre-Homeric times, a mountain spirit
 who subsequently became a minor consort of
 ZEUS. The Romans worshiped her as an obscure
 goddess of the plains who became briefly a con
sort of JUPITER, and they perceived her as the
 mother of the messenger god Mercury. Her cult
 was associated with that of VULCANUS. Possibly
 the origin of the name of the month of May.
 See also MERCURIUS.
 MAITREYA (the loving one)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. Bodhisattva or buddha
designate.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures,
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric 
ritual texts.
 One of the most popular deities of the Mahayana
 and Hinayana sects of Buddhism. He originates
 from the yellow mantra syllable MAIM in the
 Tusita heaven. He is also regarded as a manusi
buddha or future human buddha. He equates with
 KALKIN in Hinduism and is perceived as a happy,
 rubicund figure of benevolent character. He has
 no SAKTI and his attendant animal is a lion. Color:
 gold or yellow. Attributes: five DHYANIBUDDHAS,
 flower, prayer wheel, shrine (in the hair) and
 water jar. May be three-eyed or three-headed. He
 may also be identified symbolically by white blos
soms. Also MI-LO FO (Chinese).
 Majas Gars
 Household god. Pre-Christian Latvian. Invoked
 until very recent times in country districts as a deity
 who would bring prosperity to the family home.
 God. Basque [Pyrenean region]. The consort of
 the mother goddess MARI, he appears in the guise
 of a serpent. 
Make Make
 Sea god. Polynesian [Easter Island]. The tutelary
 deity of the Easter Islanders, he created mankind
 and animals. His sacred animal is the sea swallow
 and the huge anthropomorphic stone figures
 which characterize the island’s archaeology form
 part of his cult.
 Mal
 Creator god. Early Dravidian (Tamil). Probably
 equating with a syncretization of VISˇNU and
 KRSNA. The name implies a deity of great stature.
 In Sangam texts, his face is like the moon, his
 eyes are lotuses and his CAKRA is the beams of the
 sun. Also TIRUMAL.
 Mala (garland)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of a group of ASTAMATARA deities. Color: red or
 yellow. Attributes: garland of forest flowers, or of
 jewels.
 Malakbel
 Vegetation god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Mentioned as the brother of AGLIBOL on an
 inscription at Palmyra dated to AD 132.
 Malamanganga’e (light eastward)
 Creator being. Polynesian. One of the two per
sonifications of light who, with MALAMANGAN
GAIFO, engendered Lupe, the dove, whose consort
 is rock. From these primordial principles came
186 Malamangangaifo
 several generations of supernatural beings whose
 descendants engendered mankind.
 Malamangangaifo (light westward)
 Creator being. Polynesian. 
See also MALAMANGANGA’E.
 Malhal Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of seven SAKTIS who in later Hinduism became
 regarded as SAPTAMATARAS (mothers) of evil
 intent. Particularly known in Bengal as a bringer
 of disease.
 Malik (king)
 Tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Known from inscriptions.
 Mam
 God of evil. Mayan (Yucatec, classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. A much-feared deity who lives
 beneath the earth and only emerges in times of
 crisis. Depicted in the form of a flat, life-sized
 piece of wood dressed as a scarecrow and set upon
 a stool. He is offered food and drink during
 Uayeb, the period of five unlucky days at the end
 of the year, after which the figure is undressed and
 unceremoniously thrown away. During Uayeb
 devotees fast and refer to the god as “grandfather.”
 Mama See MAMI.
 Mama Qoca (mother sea)
 Goddess of the ocean. Inca (pre-Columbian
 South America) [Peru, etc]. Originally a pre-Inca
 goddess of coastal regions who retained her influ
ence under Inca rule. Invoked by all Indians who
 gain their livelihood from the sea. Today proba
bly syncretized largely with the Christian Virgin
 Mary. Also Mama Cocha.
 Mamaki (greedy)
 Goddess. Buddhist. The SAKTI of RATNASAMBHAVA
 or AKSOBHYA. Also a BODHISATTVA or future bud
dha, originating from the blue mantra MAM.
 Color: yellow or blue. Attributes: cup, flowers,
 jewel, knife and staff.
 Mama-Kilya (mother moon)
 Moon goddess. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The consort of the sun god
 INTI, she is important in the calculation of time
 and regulating the Inca festival calendar. The
 Indians consider that an eclipse of the moon is a
 time of great danger, caused by a mountain lion or
 snake eating the moon, and perform a ritual mak
ing as much noise as possible to frighten the pred
ator off.
 Mami
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Identified in the Atrahasis
 texts and other creation legends and probably
 synonymous with NINHURSAG˜A. She was involved
 in the creation of mankind from clay and blood.
 The name almost certainly came into use because
 it is the first word that a child formulates. Also
 Mama; Mammitum.
 Mamitu
 Goddess of oaths and treaties. Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian). One of the consorts of
 NERGALand subsequently identified as a chthonic
 underworld deity. Also Mammetu.
Mamlambo
 Mandulis 187
 Manawat
 River goddess. Zulu [Natal, South Africa]. Con
sidered to control all the rivers running through
 Natal. Also a patron of beer-makers, who are usu
ally women.
 Manannan (Mac Lir)
 Sea god. Celtic (Irish and British). Extensively
 worshiped. From the name is derived the “Isle 
of Man” where, according to tradition, the god
 is buried. He rules the “Isle of the Blessed” 
and determines the weather at sea. Father of
 the Irish hero Mongan. Also Manawyddaw
 (Welsh).
 Manasa
 Snake goddess. Hindu. The daughter of
 KASYAPA and KADRU and the sister of the lord of
 serpents, Vasuki. She is also a gracious aspect of
 PARVATI. Known particuarly from Bihar, Bengal
 and Assam. She stands upon, or is shaded by, a
 seven-headed snake. Attributes: snake and
 waterjar.
 Manasi (spiritual)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Manat (fate)
 Goddess. Pre-Islamic Arabian. One of the so
called Daughters of ALLAH, she is primarily iden
tified with a shrine (lost) between Mecca and
 Medina.
 Manavi (descended from Manu)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Goddess of destiny. Western Semitic
 (Nabataean). Mentioned in a large number of
 inscriptions.
 Manawyddan
 Sea god. Celtic (Welsh). The counterpart of the
 Irish god MANANNAN. He is the consort of 
RHIANNONand is regarded as a skilled craftsman.
 sMan-Bla (physician)
 God. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One of the more
 popular medicine-buddhas and possibly derived
 from Persian light-religion. Attributes: fruit and
 waterjar.
 Mandah
 Collective name of gods. Pre-Islamic Arabian.
 Guardian deities, whose chief responsibility is
 irrigation.
 Mandanu
 God of divine judgment. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian). Known from the neo-Baby
lonian period.
 Mandhata (thoughtful)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Minor avatara of
 VISˇNU. One of the “lords of the universe.”
 Mandulis [Greek]
 Sun god. Nubian. Mandulis was chiefly revered in
 a Greco-Roman cult. His most important sanc
tuary was at Kalabsha, close to the Aswan High
 Dam, and now relocated. A sanctuary was also
 constructed on the Greek island of Philae where
188 Manes
 he seems to have enjoyed an association with the
 goddess ISIS. Also Merwel (Egyptian).
 Manes
 Hearth deities. Roman. Technically souls sepa
rated from the body, these objects of ancestor
 worship became classed as guardian divinities in
 Roman households. Celebrated in the feast of
 Parentalia. Origin of the title on graves: Dis
 Manibus.
 Mangala (auspicious)
 1. Astral god. Hindu. Personification of the
 planet MARS. Depicted by a chariot drawn by
 eight red fire-horses. According to some authors
 Mangala is a form of the god S ˇIVA in his cruel
 aspect. Attributes: club and lotus. Three-eyed.
 2. Goddess. A form of PARVATI. She rides upon a
 lion and may bear up to ten arms, carrying arrow,
 mirror, moon disc, rosary, shield and sword.
 Three-eyed.
 Mani
 Moon god. Germanic and Nordic (Icelandic). He
 guides the chariot of the moon through the night
 sky and is involved in the downfall of the world at
 Ragnarok.
 Manidhara (holding a gem)
 Minor god. Buddhist (Mahayana). An attendant
 of SADAKSARI. Attributes: jewel and lotus.
 Manito
 Creator being. Ojibwa [Canada]. One of a num
ber of very powerful beings all identified by the
 same title. These deities include the four winds,
 the thunderbirds, the underwater manitos and
 the heroic god NANABOZHO. They are the 
ultimate source of existence and are essential to
 the continuance of life. It is necessary for
 mankind to maintain close communication with
 them.
 Manitu
 Creator god. Algonquin Indian [USA]. A vaguely
 defined being who controls all things and imparts
 knowledge to the tribe. He may be identified as
 the great spirit in the sky. Probably similar to
 MANITO.
 Manjughosa (sweet sounding)
 God. Buddhist. Form of the god MANJUSRI and
 an emanation of AKSOBHYA. Attended by a lion.
 Color: white or gold. Attributes: arrow, bell, blue
 lotus, book, bow, image of Aksobhya, staff and
 sword.
 MANJUSRI (pleasing splendor)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. Bodhisattva or buddha
designate, also god of wisdom.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC until
 present.
 SYNONYMS large number of forms.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures, 
paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric 
ritual texts.
 An important and popular deity throughout all
 sects of Buddhism. He is the son of either
 AMITABHA or AKSOBHYA and is closely linked with
 the goddess PRAJNAPARAMITA who is seen as the
 personification of a holy text which MANJUSRI
 habitually carries, the pustaka. His attendant ani
mal is the tiger or the lion. Color: black, white,
MARDUK 189
 red or yellow. Attributes: chiefly book and sword,
 but also arrow, blue lotus and bow. May be three
headed.
 Manmatha
 Form of the god of carnal love. Dravidian (Tamil).
 A local southern Indian form of Kama with sim
ilar attributes and genealogy, named in Sangam
 literature.
 Manohel-Tohel
 Creator god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The deity concerned specifically 
with the creation of mankind, giving mortals
 body and soul and leading them from the caves
 into the light.
 Manu
 Primordial creator god. Hindu (Vedic). The
 son(s) of SURYA. The name given to the fourteen
 original progenitors of mankind during 
the mythical or heroic ages. According to tradi
tion, the consort of Manu is Ida, who was
 engendered from milk and butter offered to
 S
 ˇ IVA as a propitiation.
 Manungal
 Chthonic underworld god. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). A minor
 deity, the consort of BIRDU.
 Maponos
 Tribal deity. Celtic (British and Continental
 European). A youthful god worshiped by 
the Brigantes tribe in Britain and probably
 assimilated with APOLLO in the Romano-Celtic
 period.
 Mara (the destroyer)
 1. God. Buddhist. An evil deity who puts obsta
cles in the way of the BUDDHA. The equal of the
 Hindu god Kama. In Buddhist tradition, the
 Hindu gods INDRA, BRAHMA, VISˇNU and S ˇIVA are
 maras who become vanquished by various Bud
dhist deities. Attributes: fish standard.
 2. God. Hindu. An epithet of KAMA(DEVA).
 Marama
 Moon goddess. Polynesian (Maori). She equates
 with the Tahitian goddess HINA, daughter of
 TANGAROA. Tradition has it that her body wastes
 away with each lunar cycle but is restored when
 she bathes in the sea from which all life springs.
 Maramalik
 Chthonic underworld god. Kafir [Afghanistan].
 No details known.
 MARDUK
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian) [Iraq]. Cre
ator and national god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC, or
 earlier, to circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Lugal-dimmer-an-ki-a (divine king of
 heaven and earth); Asˇalluhe; Merodach
 (Hebrew). At least fifty other divine names,
 according to the Babylonian creation epic.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Babylon.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae, glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts, particularly
 the Babylonian creation epic Enuma Elisˇ.
 Marduk is the chief deity of Babylonia and tute
lary god of the city of Babylon though perhaps
 derived, in part, from a Sumerian model. His
 parents are ENKI and DAMGALNUNA or EA and
190 Mari (1)
 DAMKINA. His consort is the goddess ZARPAN
ITU(M) with whom his marriage was re-enacted
 in an annual New Year festival. In the Old Baby
lonian period he was comparatively insignificant,
 but in subsequent times he rose to prominence,
 taking over the role of AN and replacing ENLIL.
 At the time of the Assyrian takeover, Assyrian
 scribes replaced Marduk with ASSUR.
 In the mythology of the creation epic, Marduk
 is engaged in a primordial cosmic battle with TIA
MAT, the power of the ocean. He kills her, splitting
 her in half and using parts of her corpse to make
 heaven and earth. Tiamat fought him in revenge
 for the death of APSU, the deep, and is said to have
 created an exact replica of Apsu, the Esˇarra.
 The symbol of Marduk is the triangular device
 used in Mesopotamia as an agricultural tool and
 called a mar.
 The main Marduk festival was the akitu, also
 performed at New Year, which continued up to as
 late as 200 BC. It was performed by the Persian
 ruler Cambyses circa 538 BC. Marduk’s sanctuary
 in Babylon is the Esagila and the E-temen-anki
 ziggurat.
 Mari (1) (killing)
 1. Deification of literature. Buddhist. One of a
 group of DHARANIS. Color: reddish white. Attrib
utes: needle, thread and staff. 
2. Mother goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. 
See also MARI MAI.
 Mari (2) (queen)
 Supreme mother goddess. Basque [Pyrenean
 region]. She is both a sky and chthonic goddess
 and her consort is MAJU. She is depicted dressed
 in rich clothing and jewels. Her home is within
 the earth but she also rides through the air in a
 chariot pulled by four horses or carried by a ram.
 She may breathe fire and is symbolized by the
 rainbow. When she and her consort meet, a thun
derstorm forms. Her symbol is a sickle which is
 still employed as a device to ward off evil.
 Mari Mai (mother death)
 Plague goddess. Hindu. The sister of SITALA,
 associated with cholera. Her Tamil counterpart is
 MARIYAMMAN.
 Marici (shining)
 1. Astral goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An ema
nation of VAIROCANA and also his female aspect or
 SAKTI. She is further identified as a buddha-desig
nate or BODHISATTVA. She may also be the mother
 of SAKYAMUNI (a form of the BUDDHA). Consid
ered by some to be the equal of the Hindu SURYA.
 She may be depicted in a three-headed form (as
 the Sakti of HAYAGRIVA), in which case her left
 head is that of a pig. She rides in a chariot drawn
 by seven boars. Color: red, yellow or white.
 Attributes: arrow, bow, fly whisk, horse’s head
 image in the hair, needle, prayer wheel, staff,
 sword, thread and trident. Three-eyed.
 2. Demiurge. Hindu. A product of the creator
 god BRAHMA.
 Mariyamman (mother of smallpox)
 Plague goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. A terrible goddess, one of the NAVASAKTIS
 and linked with the goddess KALI. She is honored
 in a ritual during which victims (in penance) are
 suspended from a rope and an iron hook through
 the flesh of the back and whirled around a pole.
 Also Mariyattal.
 Marnas
 Local tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Probably regarded as a fertility deity, his cult was
Mata 191
 centered at Gaza at the Marneion sanctuary and
 probably succeeded that of Dagon. He may have
 been the subject of a colossal statue attributed to
 ZEUS found near Gaza.
 See also DAGAN.
 MARS
 ORIGIN Roman. God of war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS ARES (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT the Mars Ultor sanctuary
 (Augustine) in Rome.
 ART REFERENCES large number of sculptures and
 carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 Mars may have originated as a god of vegetation,
 but becomes closely modeled on the Greek war
 god Ares. The son of JUPITER and JUNO, he is
 one of the major deities on the Roman pantheon
 and the patron of all soldiers. He was particularly
 popular in Roman Britain.
 He is depicted wearing a suit of armor with a
 plumed helmet. He bears a shield and spear. His
 retinue includes Metus (Fear), Demios (Dread),
 Phobos (Alarm), ERIS (Discord) and Pallor (Ter
ror). Mars is frequently linked with BELLONA,
 the minor Roman war goddess who drives his
 chariot. He took an active part in the primordial
 war between gods and giants. His consort is
 VENUSand he is the father of HARMONIA, Cupid
 and Anteros. He is also romantically linked with
 the vestal Ilia, who was buried alive for contra
vening the laws of her sisterhood. Through Ilia
 Mars fathered Romulus, the alleged founder of
 the city of Rome, and Remus, who was slain by
 Romulus. It was the convention that a Roman
 general, before setting out for combat, would
 invoke Mars in his sanctuary. The name of 
the month of March, noted for its violent
 weather, is derivative and the month was dedi
cated to the god.
 The training ground for would-be Roman
 legionaries was known as the Campus Martius
 (field of Mars). Mars’s sacred animals include the
 bull, wolf and woodpecker.
 See also AMOR.
 Martu
 Tutelary god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). The
 patron god of the city of Ninab mentioned in the
 texts but never re-discovered. Probably not a true
 Sumerian deity but adopted from an unknown
 western Semitic culture. He is sometimes identi
fied as a storm god.
 Maru
 God of war. Polynesian and Maori. One of the
 important deities revered by Maori clans in New
 Zealand in times of war, he may be represented in
 totems as an aggressive face with a prominent tuft
 of hair, staring eyes and tongue protruding,
 though these totems generally represent ances
tors rather than deities. Maru may be invoked in
 the familiar Maori war dances and chants demon
strated popularly by the All Blacks before rugby
 matches all over the world.
 Marutgana
 Storm gods. Hindu (Vedic). The sons of RUDRA
 and attendants of INDRA. Also Maruts.
 Mata (great mother)
 Primeval mother goddess. Hindu. The archetypal
 progenitrix of all living things. She becomes the
 tutelary goddess of every village in northern India,
 but is also seen as a plague goddess associated with
 smallpox, in which case her epithet becomes Maha
 Mai. Her Tamil counterpart is Amman.
192 Matara
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various shrines.
 Matara
 Mother goddess. Hindu. Applied collectively to
 groups of deities, the divine mothers, also more
 specifically to the consort of the god KASYAPA. As
 divine mothers they are also regarded as SAKTIS.
 The numbers vary according to separate tradi
tions and they are therefore identified as the 
SAPTAMATARAS (seven), ASTAMATARAS (eight) and
 NAVASAKTIS (nine). Less commonly there may be
 up to fifty mataras in a group. Their images are
 normally carved in stone (very few exist in metal)
 and they are depicted seated, often upon a corpse,
 and may be of terrifying appearance.
 Matarisvan
 Minor messenger god. Hindu (Vedic). The atten
dant of AGNI.
 Mater Matuta
 Sky goddess. Italic. The personification of the
 dawn light who evolved into a fertility deity con
cerned with childbirth. She is also a tutelary god
dess of mariners. 
See also ISIS.
 Matlalcueye (her skirt is blue)
 Minor fertility goddess. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the TLALOC complex, closely associated with
 water.
 MATRES (mothers)
 ORIGIN Romano-Celtic (across Europe but partic
ularly Rhineland). Triads of mother goddesses.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC, but
 probably much earlier, until Christianization
 (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Deae Mattes; Matronae.
 ART REFERENCES various Romano-Celtic sculp
tures, reliefs and votive plaques. An excellent
 example comes from Cirencester, England.
 LITERARY SOURCES inscriptions.
 Triads of benevolent mother goddesses were
 probably worshiped, in the main, as household
 deities guarding against disease or famine. An
 important sculpture of Matres was found embed
ded in the walls of London on a section of fourth
 century rebuilding adjacent to the Thames.
 Another, the Matres Aufaniae, was dedicated by
 Quettius Severus, the quaestor of the colony of
 Cologne. Several unnamed Matres are held in the
 Corinium museum at Cirencester. The sculptures
 are often associated with comucopiae, baskets 
of fruit, loaves, sheaves of grain, fish or other
 symbols of prosperity and fertility. They may also
 carry or suckle children. Many of the triads were
 specific to regions, hence the Treverae among the
 Treveri tribe around modern Trier, or the
 Nemausicae at Nimes.
 Many of the dedications to such mothers were
 made by soldiers. There is a slight suggestion that
 they might also have been linked to victory in
 battle. The plaque found in London seems to
 have the mothers holding palm fronds. They are
 also not infrequently depicted with dogs, which
 were generally included as symbols of healing.
 Some, particularly from the Rhineland, show
 young and older figures, suggesting the different
 ages of womanhood.
 Matsuo
 God of sake brewers. Shinto [Japan]. Celebrated
 annually in a festival in Kyoto, when the 
presence of the god is carried on a palanquin. 
It is rowed down the river prior to a general 
celebration, during which sake is drunk 
liberally.
Matsya
 Mayajalakrama-Kurukulla 193
 Mawu
 Incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). In this first avatara Visˇnu appears as a
 fish which, according to one legend, tows a ship
 carrying the law-giver MANU to safety after the
 primal flood. Matsya engages in an epic battle
 with the demon HAYAGRIVA who stole the Vedas
 from a sleeping BRAHMA. Usually depicted with a
 human torso carrying symbols, e.g. wheel and
 conch, on a fish’s body.
 Maturaiviran
 Locally worshiped god. Hindu. Of fearsome
 character, he is the deification of a seventeenth
 century policeman who eloped with a princess
 and was slain. Known from southern India, where
 he is also a god of wine. Attributes: shield and
 sword.
 Maui
 Tutelary god. Polynesian (Maori) [New
 Zealand]. Not a creator god but one who assists
 mankind in various supernatural ways. Accord
ing to tradition he was aborted at birth and cast
 into the sea by his mother, who thought he was
 dead. He was rescued entangled in seaweed. He
 is the deity who drew the islands of New
 Zealand from the floor of the ocean in a net.
 Maui caught the sun and beat it into submis
sion, making it travel more slowly across the sky
 so that the days became longer. He also brought
 fire from the underworld for mankind and tried,
 unsuccessfully, to harness immortality for him
 by entering the vulva of the underworld god
dess HINE-NUI-TE-PO while she was asleep.
 She awoke and crushed him to death. Though a
 deity, he had been made vulnerable to death 
by a mistake during his rites of birth (see also
 BALDER). Also Mawi.
 1. Moon goddess. Fon [Benin, West Africa). The
 sister of the sun god LISA. She is also considered
 to bestow fertility and motherhood and is gener
ally benevolent in nature.
 2. Sky god. Ewe [Togo, West Africa]. Among the
 tribe neighboring the Fon. Mawu is perceived as
 male and a creator deity. He favors the color
 white and is also benevolent and generous in
 nature.
 Maya(devi)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist. The mother of the
 BUDDHA perceived as the world lotus or PADMA
 from which the Buddha was born. She equates
 with the Hindu goddess LAKSMI. The term is 
also applied to the personification of the visible
 universe and, in Hinduism, as an epithet of the
 goddess DURGA.
 Mayahuel
 Minor fertility goddess. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico). One of the group
 classed as the Ometochtli complex associated
 with the maguey plant from which pulque is
 brewed. She may be depicted seated upon 
a tortoise beside an agave plant in bloom.
 According to legend she was abducted by 
QUETZALCOATL and subsequently dismembered 
by wild animals. From the fragments grew the
 first agave plants.
 Mayajalakrama-Kurukulla (one who pro
ceeds in the net of illusion)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). The personifi
cation of all DHYANIBUDDHAS. Color: red. Attrib
utes: arrow, bow, hook, images of the five
 Dhyanibuddhas, lotus (red), pitcher, rosary and
 waterjar.
194 Mayin
 Mayin
 Supreme god. Tungus [eastern and central
 Siberia]. A benevolent but remote deity who
 breathes life into newborn children and receives
 the spirits of the dead.
 Mayon (the black one)
 Creator god. Early Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India and Sri Lanka]. Animistic high god of the
 pastoral regions, found in Sangam literature and
 thought to reside in trees. Perhaps equating with
 VISˇNU or KRSNA.
 Ma-zu
 Sea goddess. Chinese. Known from the coastal
 regions of southeastern China as a benevolent
 guardian of fishermen, and closely linked with
 the goddess KUAN YIN.
 Mbomba
 Creator god. Mongo and Nkundo [Democratic
 Republic of Congo, central Africa]. He oper
ates through intermediaries known as bilima
 and through the spirits of the dead, bakali. Also
 known as landa, Komba, Mbombo, Njakomba
 and WAI. Among the Ngbandi people there is
 recognized a vast water monster or river god by
 the same name.
 Mbombe
 Mother goddess. Nkundo [Democratic Republic
 of Congo, central Africa]. The consort of ITONDE
 and mother of the hero LIANJA.
 Mbongo
 River god. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. One of seven deities
 invoked at sunrise each morning. The creator god
 of all black people, said to reside in black waters.
 Mbotumbo
 Creator god. Baule [Ivory Coast, West Africa]. A
 generally benevolent guardian deity with the head
 of an ape.
 Medeine (of the trees)
 Woodland goddess. Pre-Christian Latvian.
 Known from medieval manuscripts.
 Medha (wisdom)
 Minor goddess. Buddist (Mahayana). The SAKTI
 of Sridhara.
 Meditrina
 Goddess of healing. Roman. Syncretized into the
 cult of AESCULAPIUS.
 Meghanada (cloud roar)
 Minor god. Hindu. A son of Ravana who once
 briefly bested INDRA and became known as the
 “Indra-conqueror.”
 Mehen
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Egyptian. The
 guardian of the barque of the sun god RE during
 its passage through the underworld at night.
 Depicted in the form of a coiled snake.
 Meher
 Sun god. Pre-Christian Armenian. Closely linked
 with the Persian model of MITHRA, he is the son
 of Aramazd who appears in the form of fire. In
Mena 195
 contrast to this imagery, his home is said to be in
 a cave and he takes the animal guise of a raven.
 Mehet-Weret (great flood)
 Minor goddess associated with creation accounts.
 Egyptian. In some versions of the story she epit
omizes the primeval ocean, while in others she is
 the waterway on which the barque of the sun god
 REtravels. She is depicted as a cow bearing a sun
 disc between its horns and lying on papyrus reeds.
 Mellonia
 Goddess of bees. Roman.
 MELQART
 ORIGIN Phoenician [Turkey]. Heroic tutelary
 god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1200 BC to
 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Milk-quart.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tyre.
 ART REFERENCES possibly sculptures in stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Herodotus and local inscrip
tions; Vetus Testamentum.
 A god of youthful appearance often associated
 with the sea. Known mainly from Tyre, where he
 was regarded as the consort of ASTARTE and prob
ably constituted part of a trio of major deities
 with BAAL S ˇAMIN and Astarte. He may be
 depicted on coinage riding a sea-horse. The cult
 of Melqart spread extensively through Egypt,
 Carthage, Cyprus, etc. Melqart equates with
 ESˇMUN, the tutelary god of Sidon. Known in
 Hebrew tradition as the ruler of the underworld
 and probably based on the Sumerian/Akkadian
 NERGAL. In Hellenic times he becomes defined
 more as a sun god, but is largely syncretized with
 HERAKLES. The pillars in the sanctuary at
 Gadeira/Cadiz were renamed the Pillars of Her
cules by the Romans.
 Me’mdeye-Eci’e
 Fire spirit. Yukaghir [eastern Siberia]. A benevolent
 being residing in the sky and known as “father fire.”
 Men
 Moon god. Phrygian [Turkey]. Ruler of both
 upper and lower worlds. Probably also a god of
 healing, he was subsequently adopted by the
 Greeks and Romans. The cult was popular during
 the imperial period, but its inscriptions were writ
ten in Greek.
 Men Ascaenus
 Local tutelary god. Antioch-near-Pisidia. Possibly
 originating as a Persian moon god and known
 chiefly from a description by Strabo. He enjoyed
 a substantial cult including a temple some 1,200
 meters above sea level. His symbol is the head of
 a bull above a crescent moon and wreath; it
 appears on local coinage circa AD 200. The pop
ularity of the cult earned antagonism from the
 Roman occupation. 
See also MEN.
 Men Shen
 God of passage. Chinese. One of a pair of deities,
 armed with bow and arrows, who guard door
ways and gates. Paper images are pinned to
 entrances of homes during the New Year cele
brations to ward off evil spirits.
 Mena
 Mountain goddess. Hindu. The consort of HIMA
VAN and the mother of GANGA and PARVATI.
196 Menechen
 Menechen (master of men)
 Supreme god. Araucania Indian [southern Andes].
 Also known as Pillan (heaven) and, west of the
 Andes, Guenu-Pillan (spirit of heaven).
 Meness
 Moon god. Pre-Christian Latvian. Consort of the
 sun goddess SAULE. He is a guardian deity of trav
elers and military expeditions.
 Menulis
 Moon god. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. Consort of
 the sun goddess.
 Menzabac (black powder maker)
 Weather god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. He sprinkles black dye on the clouds,
 which causes them to generate rain. Believed to
 live on the edge of a lake. Also a fever god and a
 keeper of good souls. Also Metzabac.
 MERCURIUS
 ORIGIN Roman. Messenger god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Psychopompus; Oneicopompus;
 HERMES (Greek); Mercury.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Circus Maximus (Rome).
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 One of the twelve major deities of Olympus, Mer
cury is modeled closely on the Greek god Hermes.
 In Roman mythology he is the son of JUPITER and
 the plains goddess MAIA, born in a cave on Mount
 Cyllene in Arcadia. He is attributed with the 
invention of the lyre made from a tortoise shell, and
 with various misdemeanors, including the theft of
 cattle from APOLLO, an allegory on the blowing
 away of the clouds (Apollo’s herds). Mercury also
 personifies the wind. Apollo presented Mercury
 with the gift of his winged baton, the caduceus,
 which had the power of resolving conflict and dis
pute. The gods also presented Mercury with the
 winged sandals or talaria and cap or petasus.
 Originally he was a god of riches but became a
 patron of travelers and thieves. The French for
 Wednesday, mercredi, derives from his name. His
 main annual festival, the Mercuralia, took place in
 Rome in May and his statues were frequently
 placed as boundary markers. 
As Psychopompus he leads the souls of the dead
 into Hades, and as Oneicopompus he oversees
 the world of dreams.
 Meretseger
 Localized chthonic goddess associated with the
 underworld. Egyptian. At Thebes she acted in
 either benign or destructive fashion against work
ers building tombs in the Valley of the Kings. She
 is generally depicted as a coiled cobra which may
 possess a human head and arm. One of the best
 representations is on the sarcophagus of Rameses
 III. She lost her popularity when the use of
 Thebes as a royal cemetery was discontinued
 early in the first millennium BC.
 Mes An Du
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylonian
Akkadian). Probably an alternative title for the
 sun god (see S ˇAMASˇ).
 Mes Lam Taea
 God of war. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Baby
lonian-Akkadian). An aggressive aspect of the
 chthonic underworld god NERGAL. Often linked
 with the god LUGAL-IRRA.
Messor
 Mictlantecuhtli 197
 Mhalsa
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Concerned
 with the growth and harvesting of crops.
 Meter
 Mother goddess, Greek. The essence of the great
 mother of all gods, equating most closely to GAIA.
 Known throughout the Greek Empire and gen
erally the object of devotion by individuals rather
 than large cult followings. Also known as Meter
 oriae (mother of the mountain). Her popularity is
 thought to have spread from northern Ionia.
 Herodotus mentions a festival of Meter in
 Kyzikos. Probably derived originally from the
 western Asiatic great mother (see KYBELE).
 Metis
 Goddess of wisdom. Greek. The daughter of
 OKEANOS and TETHYS. The original consort of
 ZEUS and mother of ATHENA. According to leg
end, Zeus swallowed her because he feared she
 would engender a child more powerful than he.
 Metsaka
 Moon goddess. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Known as “grandmother moon,” she is
 the consort of the fire god TATEVALI. She guards
 the Huichol against the god of death, TOKAKAMI.
 Metztli
 Minor moon god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group of deities belonging
 to the TEZCATLIPOCA complex.
 Mexitli (maguey-hare)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the group of deities
 belonging to the HUITZILPOCHTLI complex.
 Minor goddess. Hindu (late). The consort of
 KHANDOBA and considered to be a form of the
 goddess PARVATI. Locally worshiped at Jejuri,
 near Poona in western India.
 Micapetlacoli (dead mat chest)
 Minor chthonic underworld goddess. Aztec (clas
sical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 of deities belonging to the MICTLANTECUHTLI
 complex.
 Michi-No-Kami
 Gods of passage. Shinto [Japan]. The generic
 name for three KAMIS associated with roads and
 crossroads. They also protect the boundaries 
of house and environs and may be known as
 Yakushin gods, guardians against plague. See
 KUNADO. Also Chiburi-No-Kami.
 Mictecacihuatl
 Chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of a pair of deities
 with MICTLANTECUHTLI. In the primeval waters
 of the cosmos, they generated the monstrous
 goddess CIPACTLI, from whom the earth was
 formed.
 Mictlantecuhtli
 Chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The creator of the
 underworld, Mictlan. Depicted with a skull-like
 appearance and protruding teeth. Also one of a
 pair of deities with MICTECACIHUATL. In the
 primeval waters of the cosmos, they generated
 the monstrous goddess CIPACTLI, from whom the
 earth was formed. In alternative traditions he is
 the god of the sixth of the thirteen heavens,
198 Midir
 Mi-Kura-Tana-No-Kami (august store
Ilhuicatl Mamalhuazocan (the heaven of the fire
 drill), or he is one of the gods who support the
 lowest heaven at the four cardinal points. Mict
lantecuhtli is perceived to reside in the south
 (codices Borgia and Vaticanus B). He is also one of
 the four great temple deities (codices Borgia, Cospi
 and Fejervery-Mayer).
 Midir
 Chthonic god. Celtic (Irish). Appears in poly
morphic form. According to legend the consort of
 Etain and ruler of the land of Mag Mor. He lost
 an eye when hit by a hazel wand; the eye was
 replaced by DIANCECHT, the physician god. In
 Roman times he became more of an underworld
 deity. Also Mider.
 Mihos
 Lion god. Egyptian. The son of the goddess
 BASTET. Depicted in leonine form and originat
ing from a cult center at Leontopolis [Tell el’
Muqdam] in Lower Egypt. A sanctuary in his
 honor was built at Bubastis. Also Miysis (Greek).
 Mika-Hiya-Hi (terrible swift sun)
 Sun god. Shinto [Japan]. A deity subservient to
 the sun goddess AMATERASU and engendered
 from the blood of the fire KAMI KAGU-TSUCHI.
 Certain Japanese still worship the sun, going
 outside in the morning, facing east, bowing and
 clapping their hands in a daily ritual. 
See also HI-HIYA-HI.
 Mikal
 Local god. Western Semitic (Phoenician). The
 cult was followed strongly on Cyprus. Some
 authorities believe he was invoked as a plague
 god.
 house chief kami)
 House god. Shinto [Japan]. One of a number of
 domestic guardian KAMIS, he is particularly con
cerned with the protection of storehouses.
 Milkastart
 Local tutelary god. Western Semitic. Known only
 from Umm el-Ammed where his cult apparently
 co-existed with that of BAAL SAPON. One of two
 major temples built at Umm el-Ammed in the
 third century BC was probably dedicated to
 MILKASTART, and the name is regarded as a syn
cretization of MELQART and ASTARTE.
 Milkom
 Tutelary god. Western Semitic (Ammonite). One
 of the deities mentioned in the Vetus Testamentum
 (1 Kings 11.5) as being worshiped by the Israelite
 king Solomon. Also Milcom.
 Mi-Lo Fo
 God. Chinese Buddhist. The local name given to
 the BODHISATTVA MAITREYA. Like the Indian
 model he is represented as a rubicund figure.
 Attributes include roses and a purse.
 MIMIR
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). God of wisdom and
 inspiration.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and possibly earlier until Christianization
 (circa AD 1100). SYNONYMS Mimr; Mimi; Mim.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known.
 ART REFERENCES none known, but possibly the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri).
MINERVA 199
 An AESIR god who lives in the world of the Frost
 Giants. He guards the well of knowledge, filled by
 a spring which flows beneath the World Tree,
 Yggdrasil, and which is supplied from the
 primeval waters. The god OTHIN drank from the
 spring to acquire knowledge, having forfeited one
 of his eyes to Mimir. Said to be the wisest among
 the gods. According to some sources he was sent
 as hostage to the VANIR in their war with the Aesir
 and was killed by them (see Othin). Some authors
 argue that he is more properly a giant than a god.
 Said to be accompanied often by the silent god
 HOENIR. Mimir warns Othin of the final
 onslaught at Ragnarok (doom).
 MIN
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Fertility god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 the end of Egyptian history (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS Menu (Egyptian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Qift at the western end of
 the Wadi Hammamat, lying between Luxor
 and Qena; Akhmim, north of Qena.
 ART REFERENCES sculpture including fragmented
 limestone colossi from Qift dating from 3000
 BC or earlier; stone reliefs, wall paintings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts, coffin texts,
 etc.
 Min is the most significant deity in the Egyptian
 pantheon in respect of sexual virility. In some
 genealogies he is the son of ISIS, in others he rep
resents Isis’s consort with HORUS as their child.
 Min is depicted in anthropomorphic form wear
ing a modius bearing two plumes and a hanging
 ribbon. He is generally drawn in profile, legs
 together and with his left arm raised into the
 angle made by his royal flail. The most obvious
 feature of the iconography is a strongly erect
 penis. Min is represented in older art by two 
serrated cones projecting horizontally from a disc.
 His sacred animal is probably a white bull and he
 is also associated with the tall lettuce species (Lac
tuca sativa), the shape of which may be reminis
cent of an erect phallus.
 By the end of the second millennium, Min had
 become partly syncretized with Horus as a god
 Min-Horus. Min is also a guardian deity of mines,
 hence his cult centers at Qift and Akhim, which
 were bases for gold-mining expeditions. Temple
 buildings at both sites are only known from the
 Greco-Roman period. Min was celebrated as part
 of the coronation rites of a ruler in Egypt, thus
 ensuring the sexual vigor and fertility of the new
 pharaoh. The festival is found depicted at Thebes
 in association with Rameses II and III. At the time
 Min was frequently presented with offerings of
 flowers and sacred lettuces.
 Minaksi (fish eyed)
 Local fish goddess. Hindu. Regarded as a SAKTI
 of S ˇIVA (i.e. PARVATI) and the daughter of KUBERA.
 She is the mother of Ugra. Minaksi is known
 mainly from southern India where one of her
 main temples is at Madurai.
 Minato-No-Kami
 God of river mouths and estuaries. Shinto
 [Japan]. The son of IZANAGI and IZANAMI and
 father of the heavenly and earthly water dividers.
 MINERVA
 ORIGIN Roman. Goddess of war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC until
 AD 400.
 SYNONYMS PALLAS, ATHENA (Greek). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT main Capitoline temple
 shared with JUPITER and JUNO, also an impor
tant sanctuary on the Esquiline (see Athena).
200 Minos
 ART REFERENCES depicted with Juno and Jupiter
 on the Great Arch of Trajan at Beneventum
 erected in AD 115; frequently appearing on sar
cophagi offering new life beyond the grave. 
See also ATHENA.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 Minerva is probably derived from an Etruscan
 goddess Menrva but later becomes modeled on
 the Greek goddess ATHENA. Like the latter, she
 sprang fully armed from the head of JUPITER
 (ZEUS), whose head had been cleaved with Vul
can’s ax. As Minerva Medica she is the tutelary
 goddess of Rome. She is perceived variously as
 goddess of war and peace, but also of wisdom and
 the arts and crafts including needlework. Annual
 festivals in her honor included the Minervalia and
 Quinquatria (March 19-23) at which the Palla
dium statue which had allegedly fallen from
 Olympus was carried in procession.
 Minos
 Minor underworld god. Greco-Roman. A son of
 Zeus and Europa. The mythical king of Crete.
 One of three judges of the dead souls entering
 Hades. His cult is linked with the worship of bulls.
 Mirsa
 God of light. Pre-Christian Caucasus region.
 Probably derived from the Persian god MITHRA.
 Also the deity responsible for fire.
 MITHRA (friend)
 ORIGIN Persian [Iran]. God of the upper air.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to 
AD 200.
 SYNONYMS MITRA (Hindu); MITHRAS (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout area of Persian
 influence.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Avesta.
 Originating in India, Mithra is a god of light who
 was translated into the attendant of the god
 AHURA MAZDA in the light religion of Persia;
 from this he was adopted as the Roman deity
 Mithras. He is not generally regarded as a sky
 god but a personification of the fertilizing power
 of warm, light air. According to the Avesta, he
 possesses 10,000 eyes and ears and rides in a char
iot drawn by white horses.
 In dualistic Zoroastrianism, which effectively
 demoted him, Mithra is concerned with the end
less battle between light and dark forces; he rep
resents truth. He is responsible for the keeping
 of oaths and contracts. He was born from a rock
 and, according to legend, engaged in a primeval
 struggle with Ahura Mazda’s first creation, a wild
 bull, which he subdued and confined to a cave.
 The bull escaped, but was recaptured by Mithra,
 who slit its throat. From the blood sprang plant
 life on earth. His chief adversary is AHRIMAN,
 the power of darkness. Mithra is not generally
 worshiped on his own, but as an integral part of
 the Mithraic worship of Ahura Mazda, where he
 acts as an intercessor between gods and men. In
 the Hellenic period he was transformed more
 closely to the role of a sun god. 
See also AHURA MAZDA.
 Mithras
 God of soldiers. Greco-Roman. Derived from the
 Indian-Persian model. He became particularly
 prominent among military people throughout the
 Roman Empire during the first and second cen
turies AD, as a god symbolizing loyalty and truth.
 The cult was performed in an underground tem
ple, the mithraeum, and involved the sacrifice of a
 bull. Mithraism, under Roman influence, was an
 exclusively male cult.
Miti
 Moccus 201
 Maternal spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The consort of QUIKINNA’QU. According to tra
dition her father is twilight man, Gi’thililan, who
 deserted her when she was very young. She is
 regarded as the mother of the Koryak people,
 whose immediate sons and daughters are
 EME’MQUT, NA’NQA-KA’LE, YINE’ANE’UT and
 Cana’ina’ut.
 Mi-Toshi-No-Kami (the august harvest
 kami)
 Agricultural god. Shinto [Japan]. The offspring of
 O-TOSHI-NO-KAMI, the harvest god of rice, and
 Kagayo-Hime (refulgent princess), he is in charge
 of crops other than rice.
 Mitra (friend)
 Minor sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). An
 Aditya, one of six descendants of ADITI, he was
 originally associated with VARUNA (Vedic), 
ruling the day while Varuna ruled the night. It
 is from this model that first MITHRA (Persian) 
and then MITHRAS (Roman) were derived. He 
is also the god of intimate friendship. Attrib
utes: two lotuses, trident and a sacrificial drink 
or soma.
 Mi-Wi-No-Kami
 God of wells. Shinto [Japan]. One of three deities
 responsible for wells, worshiped jointly in the Mi
Wi-Jinja shrine. He is particularly the god of
 domestic wells. 
Mixcoatl-Camaxtli (cloud serpent)
 God of war. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. Also a deity of hunting and fire who received
 human sacrifice of captured prisoners. According
 to tradition, the sun god TEZCATLIPOCA trans
formed himself into MIXCOATL-CAMAXTLI to
 make fire by twirling the sacred fire sticks.
 Mizu-Ha-No-Me
 Water goddess. Shinto [Japan]. The senior water
 deity who was engendered from the urine of the
 primordial creator goddess Izanami during her
 fatal illness, having been burned producing the
 fire god HI-NO-KAGU-TSUCHI.
 Mkulumncandi
 Creator god. Swazi [Swaziland, South Africa].
 There is no worship of this deity, though he is
 known as the “great first one.”
 Mlentengamunye (one leg)
 Messenger god. Swazi [Swaziland, South Africa].
 The intermediary between mankind and the 
creator god MKULUMNCANDI.
 Mlk-Amuklos
 Heroic god. Western Semitic [Syrio-Palestine]
 and Cyprus. Known from inscriptions circa 1100
 BC and possibly one of the original pre-Hellenic
 models from which APOLLO was derived.
 Mnemosyne
 Goddess of memory. Greek. A consort of ZEUS
 and mother of the legendary nine Muses of
 Helicon.
 Moccus
 Local swine god. Romano-Celtic (Continental
 European). Assimilated with Mercury.
 See also MERCURIUS.
202 Modimo
 Mokos
 Modimo
 Universal god. Tswana [Botswana, South Africa]. A
 monotheistic deity possibly, though not with cer
tainty, influenced by Christianity. Not specifically
 a creator god, since the universe and MODIMO have
 “always been.” Perceived as the river of existence
 which flows endlessly through space and time. He
 rules the light and dark opposites in the universe,
 as well as the proper order of life on earth.
 Modron (another)
 Mother goddess. Celtic (Welsh). The mother of
 MABON, whom she subsequently loses. Her cult is
 closely linked with that of Mabon and she may
 originally have been one of the aspects of the god
dess(es) MORRIGAN. In Christian times some
 authors believe that she became St. Madrun.
 Mogounos
 Local tribal deity. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Assim
ilated with APOLLO.
 Mohini (illusion)
 Minor incarnation of VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). Mohini is an avatara who appears in the
 form of an enchantress whose form Visˇnu adopted
 briefly to deceive demons attempting to remove
 the ambrosia created by churning the primeval
 ocean of milk (see also GARUDA). Visˇnu used the
 same guise to dupe and seduce the god S ˇIVA.
 Moirai
 Collective name for a group of goddesses. Greek.
 The Fates of human life: KLOTHO, the spinner,
 LACHESIS, the caster of lots, and ATROPOS, the
 unturnable inevitability of death. The daughters
 of ZEUS and THEMIS, depicted with spindle, scroll
 and scales respectively. Also Moires.
 Goddess of fertility. Pre-Christian Slavonic 
European. Identified in the Nestor Chronicle as a
 goddess of midwifery. Her cult was taken over by
 that of the Virgin Mary.
 Molek
 God. Western Semitic (Ammonite). Synonymous
 with the god Moloch (Hebrew) of the Vetus 
Testamentum to whom Israelite children were
 sacrificed by burning (1 Kings 11.7 and 2 Kings
 23.10)
 Moloch See MOLEK.
 Moma
 Creator god. Uitoto Indian [South America].
 Originally the creator of mankind. When he was
 slain he entered and ruled the underworld. Also
 the apotheosis of the moon.
 Mombo Wa Ndhlopfu (elephant face)
 Tutelary god. Ronga [Mozambique, southern
 Africa]. An ancestral deity who lives in and con
trols the forests, also appearing in the guise of a
 huge snake. He is propitiated by the sacrifice of a
 cockerel.
 MON (great god).
 ORIGIN Kafir [Afghanistan—Hindukush]. War
rior god and hero.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 origins and persisting in certain localized parts
 today.
 SYNONYMS Mandi.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly at the village of
 Pashki and at Dewa (Prasun region), but also at
MORRIGAN 203
 numerous smaller sanctuaries throughout Kafir
 region.
 ART REFERENCES wooden sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES Robertson G.S. The Kafirs of
 the Hindukush (1896), Morgenstierne G. Some
 Kati Myths and Hymns (1951).
 Mon is a senior deity in the Kafir pantheon who
 challenges and defends mankind against demons
 and giants. He is the first offspring of the creator
 god Imra. He is also a weather god who controls
 clouds and mist. Mon is perceived as a deity of
 vast size and vigor who creates glaciers with his
 footprints. He is also a god of flowing water.
 Some legends place him as a creator of mankind
 and law-giver, but only mirroring the actions of
 the supreme creator IMRA. He appears as a medi
ator between heaven and earth.
 Mon is depicted, in wood, either in human form
 carrying a golden bow and quiver made by his
 brother Kshibere, or as a humped bull. Alterna
tively he is represented by a standing stone slab
 with two attendant smaller stones.
 According to legend, when the giants locked up
 the sun and moon in a gold house, Mon turned
 himself into a child and in this guise was pro
tected by a giantess mother. After many attempts
 to break into the house, he succeeded, restored
 the sun and moon to their place in the heavens
 and assisted Imra in the creation of mankind.
 Moneta
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Roman. The spirit
 of the mint, known particularly from the second
 century BC.
 Montu
 Local god of war. Egyptian. Worshiped in and
 around the district of Thebes in Upper Egypt.
 He is known from circa 2000 BC and possibly
 earlier, but came to special prominence oversee
ing the aggressive posture of Theban kings from
 the XI to XVIII Dynasty (2133-1320 BC). Montu
 is depicted in human form but with a falcon’s
 head surmounted by twin plumes, a sun disc and
 the uraeus (cobra). At some stage, probably as
 Month (Greek), he became identified with a
 sacred bull, Buchis.
 Mor
 Sun goddess. Celtic (Irish). The progenitrix of
 the royal lineage of the kings of Munster.
 Morpheus
 Minor god of dreams. Greek. The son of HYPNOS,
 there is no record of worship of this deity.
 MORRIGAN (queen of demons)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). War, fertility and vegeta
tion goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 origins until Christianization (circa AD 400).
 SYNONYMS MACHA (Ulster); Medb or MAEVE
 (Connaught); Etain Echraide (Tara); also 
probably Badb Catha; ERIU; Fodla; Nemain;
 RHIANNON.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various sanctuaries through
out Ireland.
 ART REFERENCES inscriptions and carvings on
 Romano-Celtic altars, stone pillars, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings.
 A complex goddess displaying various characteris
tics which are both generative and destructive (see
 also ANAT, INANA, ISˇTAR, ATHENE). At the festival
 of Samain, she mates with the DAGDA to ensure
 the future prosperity of the land and as Queen
 Maeve (Medb) of Connaught she was ritually 
204 Mors
 Morta
 wedded to the mortal king whose antecedent was
 Ailill. As Nemain (panic) and Badb Catha (raven of
 battle), she takes on a more warlike and destructive
 aspect. Rather than engaging directly in conflict,
 she uses her supernatural powers to spread fear
 and disarray. The Irish hero Cu Chulainn was thus
 visited on the battle field by BADB driving a char
iot and dressed in a red cloak and with red eye
brows presenting an intimidating appearance. She
 is capable of changing her shape into various ani
mal forms and in the guise of a raven or a crow is
 able to foretell the outcome of battle.
 Morrigan is also closely associated with horse
 symbolism, befitting a horse-oriented culture
 with strong links east toward Asia. Mare forms
 the basis of the names Macha and Medb. She may
 also at times have been syncretized with the horse
 goddess EPONA. As with other Celtic goddesses
 Morrigan is an intrinsic part of the land rather
 than a tribal deity, the “Sovereignty of Ireland.”
 The Celtic goddess is frequently described as a
 triad of separate aspects. Hence Morrigan,
 Nemain and Badb are linked and become collec
tively the Morrigna (see also MATRES). In associ
ation with the vitality of Irish kings, Morrigan
 assumed the appearance both of a young girl and
 of a hag, the latter signalling the banishment or
 slaughter of a ruler who had become infirm or
 otherwise scarred with signs of mortality.
 Mors
 Minor god of death. Roman. Mors replaces the
 Greek THANATOS and, according to legend, is
 one of the twin sons of NYX, goddess of the night.
 He lives in part of the remote cave occupied by
 SOMNUS, god of sleep, beside the river Lethe.
 Ovid depicts him as a hideous and cadaverous fig
ure dressed in a winding sheet and holding a
 scythe and hour glass. Known particularly
 through Lacedaemonian culture where twin stat
ues of Mors and Somnus were placed side by side.
 Goddess of death. Roman. In later Roman times
 she becomes linked with the birth goddesses
 DECIMA and NONA, as a trio of goddesses of fate,
 the PARCAE.
 Morva
 Sky spirits. Andaman Islands [Sea of Bengal].
 Invisible but thought to be of human form.
 Morvran (sea crow)
 Local god of war. Celtic (Welsh). The son of
 CERIDWEN and TEGID FOEL. Legend has it that
 he was extremely ugly and that his mother tried to
 imbue him with wisdom by preparing a special
 brew of inspiration. It was drunk by Gwion.
 Morvran was invincible in battle because his 
enemies thought him a demon.
 MOT (death)
 ORIGIN Canaanite and Phoenician [northern
 Israel, Lebanon and Syrian coastal regions].
 God of natural adversity.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 times until circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Muth (Phoenician).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT possibly Byblos.
 ART REFERENCES none known.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ugaritic texts from Ras
 S
 ˇamra; Philon of Byblos; inscriptions.
 Mot is the Canaanite representation of adversity in
 the natural world. He lives in a pit within the earth
 and is responsible for its annual death from drought
 and heat: “he has scorched the olive, the produce of
 the earth and the fruit of the trees.” He engages in
 the classic confrontation with the Canaanite hero
 and national god, BAAL. Though the duel results in
 Baal’s demise, his death is avenged by his twin 
Mujaji 205
 sister ANAT, who slays Mot, then cleaves, winnows,
 burns and grinds him with a millstone, in what
 appears to be a ritual allied to the sowing of seed
 and harvesting (see OSIRIS). Baal is later restored.
 The conflict probably formed the basis of an
 annual ritual drama at the Canaanite New Year
 which was held in the autumn. In the texts Mot is
 the son of Il and his mother is AS ˇERAH (ATHIRAT).
 Moyocoyani (maker of himself)
 Minor god of universal power. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group of
 deities known as the TEZCATLIPOCA complex.
 Mratna’irgin (right-hand dawn)
 Spirit of the dawn. Chukchee [eastern Siberia].
 One of four beings responsible for the dawn in
 different directions. 
See also TNE’SGAN, LIETNA’IRGIN and NA’CHIT
NA’IRGIN.
 Mrgasiras (head of a gazelle)
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA, wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Mu Gong
 God of immortality. Taoist (Chinese). The person
ification of the principle of Yang and the consort of
 Xi-Wang-Mu. He lives in the east, she in the west.
 See also HSI WANG MU.
 Muati
 Obscure local god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Associated in some texts with the mythical island
 paradise of Dilmun, he becomes syncretized
 with NABU.
 dMu-bDud Kam-Po Sa-Zan
 Sky god. Bon [Tibet]. The head of the ancient
 pantheon in the Bon religion.
 Mucalinda
 Tutelary god. Buddhist. The guardian of a lake
 near Bodh Gaya. He is identified as a king of the
 nagas or snake gods and is said to have protected
 the BUDDHA from a storm by coiling around him.
 Mugasa
 Sky god. Pigmy [central Africa]. Originally he
 headed a paradise land in which the first human
 beings lived. They disobeyed him, however, by
 entering his hut where he resided unseen, after
 which he left them and made them mortal. He is
 not worshiped in any conventional sense. Also
 Mugu.
 Mugizi
 Lake god. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa]. The
 guardian deity of Lake Albert, invoked with offer
ings by those wishing to cross the lake in boats.
 Muhingo
 God of war. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa].
 Invoked specifically by warriors before entering
 battle.
 Mujaji
 Rain goddess. Lovedu [South Africa]. She is said to
 reside in the northern Drakensberg Mountains and
 sends both destructive tempests and gentle gener
ative rain. In past times she was propitiated with
 sacrifices of cattle and occasionally young girls. She
 is represented by a lineage of mortal queens on
 whose fabulous reputation the author Rider Hag
gard based the novel She. Also Modjadji.
206 Mukasa
 Mukasa
 Supreme god. Buganda [Uganda, East Africa]. A
 benevolent deity whose main oracular sanctuary
 was sited on the island of Bubembe, Lake Victo
ria. His first high priest was Semagunga and, by
 convention, only the tribal leader was permitted
 to consult with the oracle there. Mukasa provides
 rain, food and cattle.
 Mula
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A malevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Mulindwa
 Guardian goddess. Bunyoro [Uganda, East
 Africa]. The tutelary protector of the tribal chiefs
 and their families constituting the royal clan.
 Mulliltu
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 The consort of ELLIL (ENLIL) and of ASSUR. She
 derives from the Sumerian goddess NINLIL.
 Mullo
 Mule god. Romano-Celtic. Known from inscrip
tions and apparently associated with the god
 MARS.
 Munakata-No-Kami
 Sea gods. Shinto [Japan]. A group of three KAMIS,
 generally identified as the SUMIYOSHI-NO-KAMI,
 who protect seafarers, including fishermen. They
 are the subject of special worship by the Jíngu
Kogo sect, whom they escorted to Korea in dis
tant times. They are also tutelary deities of poets
 and may have a purifying function. Their main
 sanctuaries are the Sumiyoshi Taisha in Osaka
 and the Munakata-Taisha. 
Mungan Ngour
 Creator god. Australian aboriginal. Chiefly
 revered among the Kurnai Koori aborigines in
 Victoria State. The Southern Lights or Aurora
 australis are regarded as a sign of his displeasure
 when the law and order given to humankind by
 the gods are abused. His son is Tundun, who is
 responsible for the secret ceremonies originally
 divulged only to men and including the initiation
 rights of passage from boyhood to maturity.
 When these were revealed to women, the
 Dreamtime ended, a period of chaos ensued 
and Mungan Ngour elected to live henceforth 
in the sky.
 Mungu
 Creator god. Swahili [East Africa]. The name
 applied to the notion of a single god in the heav
ens, influenced by the spread of Christianity. Also
 Mulungu.
 Munisvara
 Deified saint. Hindu. Technically a demigod but
 worshiped as a deity by Dravidians in southern
 India. Also Municami (Tamil).
 Munjem Malik
 Chthonic or earth god. Kafir [Afghanistan]. He
 appears as a rival and possible predecessor of
 the god IMRA, but one whose realm is in 
the earth rather than the sky. Imra controls
 mountains and high pastures. Munjem Malik
 rules the earth of the valleys. He presides over
Mutinus 207
 the council of gods. His main sanctuary was at 
Arte in the Parun valley where a large boulder
 represented his head.
 Munume
 God of weather. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa].
 Invoked during times of drought or deluge 
and propitiated by means of sacrifice, usually
 an ox from the tribal chief and sheep or fowl
 from the villagers. The blood is sprinkled on
 the floor of the sanctuary and the flesh is eaten
 at the door.
 Muraja
 Goddess of music. Buddhist. Deification of a kind
 of large drum or tambourine. Color: smoky.
 Attribute: tambourine.
 Murukan
 Hunting and war god. Dravidian and Tamil
 [southern India]. Identified with the Hindu god
 SKANDA. His vehicle is an elephant or a peacock.
 Color: red. Attributes: spear and staff with gar
land.
 Musdamma
 God of buildings. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Described as the “great builder of ENLIL,” Mus
damma is a minor deity appointed by the god
 ENKI to take responsibility for building projects
 and for houses.
 Musisi
 Messenger god. Ndonga [Namibia, southwest
 Africa]. The intercessor between the creator god
 KALUNGA and mankind. His father is Kalunga.
 Muso Koroni (the pure woman with the
 primeval soul)
 Chthonic fertility goddess. Bambara [Mali,
 West Africa]. The mother of all living things,
 she introduced mankind to the principles of
 farming. She has a terrifying appearance,
 depicted either in human form, sometimes 
with many breasts (cf. ARTEMIS at Ephesus), or
 as a panther. In the latter guise she uses her
 claws to bring on menstruation in women 
and to circumcise both sexes. Prior to circum
cision a youth is said to possess wanzo, an
 untamed wildness. Muso Koroni is pursued by
 the sun god, PEMBA, who impregnates her in
 the form of a tree (Acacia albida). Also Mousso
 Coronie.
 Mut
 The patron goddess of Thebes. Egyptian. In
 Upper Egypt she is the counterpart of SAKHMET,
 the Lower Egyptian goddess from Memphis.
 After superseding the goddess AMAUNET, she
 became locally the consort of the sun god AMUN,
 in which capacity she is the mother of the moon
 god KHONSU. She was also regarded as the divine
 mother of the Theban kings. Mut is depicted 
in human form wearing a vulture headdress sur
mounted by the twin crowns of Upper and
 Lower Egypt. She is typically dressed in a bright
 red or blue patterned gown. Less frequently she
 is drawn with a lion’s head. She enjoyed a cult
 center at Thebes where her sanctuary was known
 as the Iseru.
 Mutinus
 Minor fertility god. Roman. Depicted as strongly
 ithyphallic and invoked by women seeking to bear
 children.
208 Muttalamman
 Myoken-Bodhisattva
 Muttalamman (pearl-mother)
 Plague goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. Specifically identified with smallpox. Also
 Mutyalamma.
 Mylitta
 Goddess. Greek. The Hellenized version of the
 Akkadian goddess MULLILTU, consort of ELLIL
 and of ASSUR.
 Astral god. Buddhist Chinese. The apotheosis of
 the Pole Star, equating with AME-NO-KAGASE
WOin Japanese Shintoism.
 Myrrha
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic (Phoenician).
 Known from inscriptions as the mother of the
 god Kinnur. Also Syyrna.
6
 N
 NA CHA (here is a loud cry)
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). Guardian god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 300 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Li No Cha.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Chinese culture.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and untranslated.
 A somewhat ambiguous god who is generally
 regarded as benevolent, but whose traditions hint
 at a more destructive aspect. He was born a god of
 human parents, the reincarnation of an older
 deity, Ling Chu-Tzu, the “intelligent pearl.”
 According to tradition, his father was Li Ching,
 who threatened to kill his mother because she
 claimed she was made pregnant by the mystical
 actions of a Taoist priest who told her she was to
 bear the child of a unicorn. Na Cha is said to have
 fought in the Shang-Chou war on the side of the
 Chou dynasty circa 1027 BC. His chief adversary
 was the sea dragon king. Ultimately he became
 involved with the goddess Shih-Chi Niang
 Niang, accidentally killed her attendant and, in
 remorse, committed suicide.
 Na Cha is the tutelary god of Yung Lo, the
 third emperor of the Ming Dynasty, and is cred
ited with the mission of ridding the world of
 evil, but he himself attacks the guardians of 
both Taoist and Buddhist temples and can only
 be defended against by Li Ch’ing, the first min
ister of heaven. He is also titled “grand marshal
 of the skies” and “guardian of the gates of
 heaven.”
 He is depicted surrounded by a red aura, with
 a white face and wearing red silk trousers which
 emanate a dazzling golden radiance. His attrib
utes include a bracelet on the right wrist. Origi
nally he also carried a thunderbolt, but when his
 name changed to Li No Cha, circa AD 1420, this
 attribute changed to a pagoda.
 Na Ngutu
 God of the dead. West and central African. Essen
tially the guardian deity of warriors slain in battle.
 Nabu
 God of writing and wisdom. Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian). The son of MARDUK and
 ZARPANITU(M), his consort is TASMETU(M). He is
 symbolized by the inscribing stylus. A major deity
 in neo-Babylonian times from the eighth century
 BC onward, with an important sanctuary at Bor
sippa, near Babylon, known as the Ezida. He is
 209
210 Na’chitna’irgin
 considered a god of mountain regions, described
 as the “firstborn son of Marduk” and his image is
 closely involved in the New Year akitu festival.
 Also NEBO (Vetus Testamentum).
 Na’chitna’irgin (genuine dawn)
 Spirit of the dawn. Chukchee [eastern Siberia].
 One of four beings responsible for the different
 directions of the dawn. The brother of
 WU’SQUUS, spirit of darkness. 
See also TNE’SGAN, MRATNA’IRGIN and LIET
NA’IRGIN.
 Nachunde
 Sun god. Elamite [Iran].
 Nagakumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHAVANAVASI (dwelling in places).
 They have a youthful appearance and are associ
ated with rain and thunder.
 Nagaraja
 Snake god. Hindu. The generic title of a deity
 equating with the terms mahoraga (great serpent)
 or nagadeva. Such deities were worshiped in India
 as early as the Indus Valley civilization (prior to
 1700 BC).
 Nagini
 Goddess. Jain [India]. The counterpart of the
 Hindu goddess MANASA.
 Nagual
 Tutelary deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A generic name for a personal god. A
 nagual generally takes the form of an animal and
 it may be adopted either by a mortal being or by
 another deity.
 Nahi
 Guardian god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Generally of benevolent nature.
 Nahui Ehecatl
 Minor water god. Aztec (classical mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group of deities belonging
 to the TLALOC complex. Also (4)Ehecatl.
 Nahui Ollin (earthquake sun)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. According to most of the codices, at
 the time of the Spanish conquest there had been
 four previous world ages, each represented by a
 sun and terminated by a cataclysm. Ollin, the fifth
 sun, was created at Teotihuacan and at the con
quest was just under 2,000 years old. It is presided
 over by the god TONATIUH. Each creation is con
sidered to last 2028 x 52 terrestrial years and the
 present one is destined to be destroyed by a great
 earthquake. Tradition has it that Ollin was origi
nally a sickly or humble deity named NANAHUATL
 (the diseased one). Also (4)Ollin; Ollintonatiuh.
 Nai
 God of the ocean. Gan [Accra, Ghana, West
 Africa]. The second-in-command to the supreme
 god ATAA NAA NYONGMO. His eldest daughter is
 the goddess ASHIAKLE.
 Naiades
 Animistic water spirits. Greco-Roman. Female
 personalities assigned the guardianship of 
NAMMU 211
 fresh waters by the great gods, and invoked
 locally at sacred pools and springs. They were
 also regarded as minor patrons of music and
 poetry.
 Naigameya
 God. Hindu. Either the son or the brother of the
 god SKANDA. Generally depicted with the head of
 a goat.
 Na’ininen
 Creator being. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 Known as “outer one,” or “world,” he is perceived
 as a remote but benevolent spirit comparable to
 the Supreme Being, TA’YAN. Also Na’rninen
 (Chukchee).
 Nai-No-Kami
 Earthquake god. Shinto [Japan]. One of the RAI
JIN deities responsible for thunder, storms and
 rain. His worship began in AD 599.
 Nainuema
 Creator god. Uitoto Indian [South America]. He
 created the earth from his own imagination and
 stamped upon it until it was flat. He then engen
dered the forests and other living things from his
 saliva.
 Nairamata (no soul)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA. A SAKTI of HERUKA and a personifi
cation of knowledge. She bears five or six arms in
 different gestures and often stands upon a corpse.
 Color: blue or black. Attributes: arrows, club, cup
 and knife. Three-eyed.
 Naksatra(s)
 Generic title for a group of astral goddesses.
 Hindu. Stars or constellations which became per
sonified as deities, accounted as twenty-seven
 daughters of DAKSA and consorts of CANDRA or
 SOMA. They can exert benign or evil influence.
 Namasangiti (the chanting of the name)
 God. Buddhist. A form of AVALOKITESVARA, but
 also a distinct emanation of VAIROCANA. The 
personification of a sacred text. He stands upon a
 lotus. Color: white. Attributes: club, lotus, sword,
 half-staff and waterjar.
 NAMMU
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. Chthonic creator and
 birth goddess.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 4000 BC until
 circa 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF WORSHIP mainly identified with Ur.
 ART REFERENCES stele of Ur-Nammu (circa
 2050-1950 BC), etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation epics, including Enki
 and the World Order; Sumerian and Akkadian
 temple hymns and poems.
 Nammu is identified in various texts as the god
dess of the watery deeps. As a consort of AN she
 is the mother of ENKI and the power of the
 riverbed to produce water. Alternatively Nammu
 is the progenitrix of An and KI, the archetypal
 deities of heaven and earth. She also engendered
 other early gods and in one poem is the mother of
 all mortal life. She molded clay collected by crea
tures called sig-en-sig-du and brought it to life,
 thus creating mankind. She is attended by seven
 minor goddesses and may ultimately have become
 syncretized with NINHURSAG˜A.
212 Namtar
 Nanaja
 Namtar (fate)
 Messenger god(dess). Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). A go-between and either minister or 
maid-servant of the underworld goddess
 ERESˇKIGAL, who brings death to mankind at the
 appropriate time.
 Nana
 Mother goddess. Pre-Christian Armenian. Her
 cult became widespread and she may be equated
 with the Phrygian goddess KYBELE.
 Nanabozho
 Heroic god. Ojibwa [Canada]. A god of hunters
 who directly influences the success or failure
 which determines whether individuals survive or
 perish. His brothers are the four winds which
 exert changes in the seasons and weather. Nan
abozho gained control over them to ensure good
 hunting and fishing for the Ojibwa tribe.
 Nanahuatl (rumor)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. In cosmogony, when on the fifth day
 of creation the gods sat in judgment to elect the
 new sun god, Nanahuatl and TECCIZTECATL
 cremated themselves in the sacred fire. The
 heart of Nanahuatl ascended to become the new
 sun and that of Tecciztecatl became the moon.
 Tradition suggests that Nanahuatl is diseased
 and impoverished but of great courage, while
 Tecciztecatl is wealthy and a coward. In an alter
native tradition, in which Nanahuatl is the son
 of QUETZALCOATL and Tecciztecatl is the son of
 TLALOC, both deities are hurled into the fire by
 their fathers.
 NOTE: eventually all the gods sacrificed them
selves so that mankind might be engendered from
 their remains. Also Nanahuatzin.
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). She is also a war goddess who became
 syncretized with the Babylonian TASˇMETU.
 Nandi(n) (rejoicing)
 Bull god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Generally
 associated with S ˇIVA as a bull-vehicle and an
 embodiment of fertility. Color: white. The image
 usually stands in an anteroom of the temple
 guarding the place where the statue of S ˇiva is
 located. A S ˇiva devotee touches the image’s testi
cles on entry to a shrine. In anthropomorphic
 form he may be known as Nandisa.
 Nang Lha
 House god. Tibetan. A personal family guardian
 depicted with the head of a pig. He is propitiated
 with libations.
 NANNA (1) (full moon)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. Moon
 god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC until
 circa 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS As-im-babbar (new light), Suen or
 SIN (crescent moon) (Akkadian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Ur.
 ART REFERENCES glyptics, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation epics including Enki
 and the World Order and other texts. 
A major astral deity in the Sumerian pantheon,
 probably originating in very early pre-agricultural
 times, Nanna is the tutelary god of Ur. He is the
 firstborn son of ENLIL. His wife is NINGAL and he
 is the father of the gods UTU and IS ˇKUR and of the
 goddess INANA. During the Third Dynasty of Ur,
 the New Year akitu festival was performed in his
Nara 213
 honor. He was considered to light up the night, to
 measure time and to provide fertility. He is
 depicted as traveling in a carriage across the sky
 bringing light to the darkness.
 Nanna (2)
 Vegetation goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). The con
sort of Balder. According to some legends she
 died of a broken heart after BALDER was slain by
 HODER and went with him to HEL. 
See also HODER.
 Na’nqa-ka’le
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 He is one of the sons of QUIKINNA’QU and,
 according to tradition, sits in one place all the
 time painting his belly. He is, nonetheless, per
ceived as a strong and heroic figure.
 Nans ˇe
 Goddess of justice. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). A
 daughter of ENKI (or EA), she is linked with the
 interpretation of dreams. Mentioned sporadically
 in texts and most closely identified with the city
 of Lagasˇ with a cult center at Sirara, but also the
 subject of a highly ethical hymn from Nippur.
 Also Nasˇ, Nina.
 Nan-Sgrub (the black one)
 God. Buddhist [Tibet]. Possibly a counterpart of
 the Hindu god KALA. In Lamaism he is a form of
 YAMA. He stands upon a man. Color: dark blue.
 Attributes: cup and knife.
 Nantosuelta (winding river)
 Goddess of water. Celtic (Gallic). Identified as 
a possible consort of the god SUCELLOS. She 
frequently holds a pole surmounted by a dove-cote.
 In addition she carries the cornucopia of a fertility
 or mother goddess, but is also a domestic guardian
 deity and is often depicted with ravens, which may
 suggest further links with the underworld.
 Napaeae
 Animistic spirits of valleys. Greco-Roman.
 Female personalities assigned the guardianship
 of fertile green valleys by the great gods and
 invoked locally in small country shrines.
 Napir
 Moon god. Elamite [Iran]. Known from inscrip
tions.
 Nappatecuhtli (four-times lord)
 Minor god of mat-makers. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group of
 deities belonging to the TLALOC complex gener
ally associated with rain, agriculture and fertility.
 Nappinnai
 Local goddess. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil). Con
sort of KRSNA. Mentioned in the Vaisnavite and
 Saivite literature, the Krsna-Nappinnai cult was
 prominent in Tamil-speaking areas of southern
 India in the seventh to ninth centuries. According
 to tradition Krsna wed Nappinnai after a bull
baiting contest during which he took on and
 defeated seven bulls. Nappinnai may be a local
ized form of Sri-Laksmi. Also Pinnai.
 Nara (man)
 Minor incarnation(s) of the god VISˇNU. Hindu
 (Epic and Puranic). Some authorities place these
 as separate avataras, but they are usually linked.
214 Narada
 Two of the sons of DHARMA, who was born from
 the heart of BRAHMA, they spent a thousand years
 as severe ascetics in the Himalaya, where they
 were subject to various temptations by INDRA.
 They are described as sages. The texts depict
 Nara colored green and bearing two hands, while
 NARAYANA has four hands and is colored blue.
 They may also be paralleled by HARI and Krsna.
 Also NARAYANA.
 Narada (giver of advice)
 Minor but popular deity. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and
 Puranic). Narada is depicted as a sage who is also
 a messenger and teacher. Born from the head, or
 throat, of BRAHMA, and alternatively a minor
 incarnation of VISˇNU. In various roles he is a
 guardian deity of women, a musician and a wan
derer. Narada, often bearded, is generally
 depicted standing with the musical instrument
 which is his invention, the vina (lute). By con
trast to his benign nature he is also described as a
 “maker of strife” and as “vile.” Also Kali-karaka;
 Pisuna.
 Naradatta (daughter of Nara)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Narasinha (man-lion)
 Incarnation of the god Visˇnu. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The fourth avatara of the god is
 depicted as a man-lion hybrid. According to leg
end, the demonic king Hiranyakasipu had taken
 on a dangerous invulnerability. To thwart this,
 VISˇNU took the form of Narasinha and hid inside
 a pillar of the king’s palace whence he sprang,
 capturing Hiranyakasipu and tearing out his
 entrails. IconographicalIy, the scene is portrayed
 with the victim thrown across Narasinha’s lap and
 the god’s claws plunged into his body. Narasinha
 may also appear seated in a yoga position with the
 goddess LAKSMI on his knee.
 Narasinhi
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI of NARASINHA who is one of a group of
 ASTAMATARA mothers. In another grouping, one
 of nine NAVASAKTIS who, in southern India, rank
 higher than the SAPTAMATARAS. Also CANDIKA.
 Narayana
 Creator god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). More or
 less synonymous with VISˇNU, but specifically
 describing the embodiment of the “abode of
 man.” He is said to have sucked his toe while sail
ing the primeval ocean on a banana leaf, until his
 own inspiration created the world. Often depicted
 supported by the bird god GARUDA. 
See also NARA.
 Nareu
 Creator god. Melanesia [Vanuatu]. As in many
 comparable legends, he created the world inside
 the shell of a mussel. He engendered a son from
 sand and water who, in turn, created the sun and
 moon from his father’s eyes, rocks from his flesh
 and bones and mankind from his spine.
 Narisah
 Goddess of light. Manichaean. The so-called
 “virgin of the light,” she may also be androgynous
 as the father of the virgins of light who equate
 with the twelve zodiac signs.
 Narkissos
 Minor god. Greek. The son of the river god
 Kephissos, he wasted away after falling in love
 with his own image reflected in water. The gods
Nebethetpet 215
 took pity on him and changed him into the flower
 of the same name. In Roman religion he becomes
 Narcissus.
 Nataraja (lord of the dance)
 Form of the god S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic). Emerging
 from AD 1200 onward, this form depicts S ˇiva as
 “lord of the dance” ringed by fire and with one foot
 on a demon in the form of a black dwarf. Nataraja
 arguably epitomizes the moving power in the cos
mos. Largely seen in southern Indian bronzes
 which display the dance-form anandatandava.
 Natha
 Tutelary god. Buddhist [Sri Lanka]. One of 
four local emanations of the BODHISATTVA
 AVALOKITESVARA.
 Naunet
 Primordial goddess. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD representing chaos, she is
 coupled with the god NUN and appears in anthro
pomorphic form but with the head of a snake.
 The pair epitomize the primordial abyss. She is
 also depicted greeting the rising sun in the guise
 of a baboon.
 Navadurga(s)
 Generic title of a group of deities. Hindu. The
 nine forms of the god DURGA. The common
 vehicle is a chariot shaped like a lotus. Each car
ries a wide assortment of attributes.
 Navasakti(s)
 Generic title of a group of goddesses. Hindu.
 The nine MATARAS or mothers. In southern India
 they are considered virgin goddesses and are held
 in higher esteem that the comparable group of
 SAPTAMATARAS.
 Nayenezgani (slayer of alien gods)
 God of war. Navaho [USA]. The most powerful
 of the Navaho war gods. The son of the sun 
god TSOHANOAI and the fertility goddess 
ESTSANATLEHI. According to tradition, he van
quished a race of giants who had nearly destroyed
 the human race. He is a benevolent god, ready to
 help mankind in times of trouble. He also cures
 diseases brought about through witchcraft. Said
 to live at the junction of two rivers in the 
San Juan valley, he is invoked by warriors prepar
ing for battle. His priest wears a buckskin bag
 mask, painted black and adorned with five zigzag
 lightning streaks, the eye and mouth holes 
covered with white sea shells. He also wears a 
fox skin collar, a crimson cloth around the hips
 and a leather belt with silver ornamentation, but
 is otherwise naked. No depictions are made of
 this deity.
 Ndaula
 Plague god. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa]. Par
ticularly associated with smallpox. His shrines are
 usually situated on the edge of a community and
 on the frontiers of the tribal land so that he may
 be invoked to keep the disease in neighboring
 territory.
 Ndjambi
 Sky god. Herero [Namibia, southwest Africa]. A
 benevolent deity who protects and lifts up all who
 die natural deaths. The utterance of his name is
 generally forbidden.
 Nebethetpet
 Local primordial goddess. Egyptian. She was
 worshiped in Heliopolis and is a female counter
part to the sun god ATUM in creation mythology.
 Specifically she is the hand with which he grasped
 his penis to self-create the cosmos.
216 Nebo
 Nebo
 God of writing and wisdom. Western Semitic.
 Known from Syrio-Palestinian inscriptions and
 equating to the Akkadian NABU. Mentioned in
 the Vetus Testamentum.
 Nediyon
 Creator god. Early Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. Equates with a syncretization of VISˇNU
 and KRSNA. The name implies a deity of tall
 stature. Sangam texts describe him wearing a
 golden robe. Attributes: conch, prayer wheel and
 lotus. Also Neduvel.
 Nefertum
 Minor god of primordial creation. Egyptian
 (Lower). Specifically he is the blue lotus blossom of
 RE. Nefertum was worshiped in the Nile delta as
 the son of the cobra goddess WADJET. At Memphis
 he is the son of the goddess SAKHMET, while else
where in Lower Egypt his mother is considered to
 be the goddess BASTET. Also Nephthemis (Greek).
 Negun
 Minor goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Known from limited references and of uncertain
 function. Possibly associated with the goddess
 SIRARA. Her brother is Asˇai and they are linked
 with the cities of Adab and Kesˇ. Also Lisin.
 Nehalennia
 Goddess of seafarers. Romano-Celtic. Worshiped
 extensively between the second and thirteenth
 centuries AD, particularly in the Netherlands
 with sanctuaries at Domberg at the mouth of the
 Rhine and Colijnsplaat on the Scheldt. Probably
 began as a tribal deity of the Morini tribe. She 
is generally depicted with the attributes of 
fertility—a basket of fruit or cornucopia. She
 may also often have a small lapdog. Alternatively,
 she stands with one foot on the prow of a boat
 and grasps an oar or the rope.
 Nehebu-Kau
 Minor snake god. Egyptian. Known from circa
 1500 BC. Essentially a chthonic deity he is,
 according to tradition, the son of the god GEB.
 Allegedly having eaten seven cobras, Nehebu
Kau offers protection against snake bite and scor
pion sting. He is also one of the guardians of the
 Egyptian king in the afterlife.
 Neit
 God of war. Celtic (Irish). A minor deity identi
fied as the consort of the goddess MORRIGAN in
 her aspect as Nemain. Also the grandfather of
 Balor, he was killed at the second legendary Bat
tle of Moytura.
 NEITH
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Creator goddess.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 the end of Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Sais [Sa el-Hagar] in the
 Nile delta.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures, reliefs and
 wall paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; a papyrus
 from Dynasty XX; etc.
 Neith is a goddess of Lower Egypt specifically
 associated with Sais but soon becoming part of the
 national pantheon with a sanctuary at Memphis.
 According to legend, when Neith emerged from
 the primeval ocean to create the world, she fol
lowed the course of the Nile down toward the sea
Nephthys 217
 and, on reaching the delta, founded the city of Sais.
 She is also a birth goddess both of the cosmos and
 of other deities when she is depicted as the great
 celestial cow. She is the mother of Egyptian rulers.
 Neith is depicted in human form wearing the
 red crown of Lower Egypt and in ancient times
 her pre-anthropomorphic symbol was a shield
 bearing crossed arrows. She was sometimes called
 upon for advice and judgment, as in the case of
 the eighty-year battle of the gods between SETH
 and HORUS, when she advised the sun god RE in
 favor of Horus. In other legends she becomes the
 consort of Seth and the mother of the crocodile
 god SOBEK.
 Nekhbet
 Local mother goddess. Egyptian (Upper). Known
 from Nekhab (el-Kab), she is generally depicted
 in the form of a vulture with one or both wings
 spread and holding the symbols of eternity in her
 talons. Nekhbet is known from at least 3000 BC
 and is mentioned in the Pyramid Texts as the
 “great white cow”—a familiar epithet in respect
 of Egyptian mother or creator goddesses.
 Nekmet Awai
 Goddess of justice. Egyptian. Locally known
 from Hermopolis, she later became syncretized
 with the goddess HATHOR.
 Nemausius
 God of water. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Associ
ated locally with a sacred spring at Nimes in
 France.
 Nemesis
 Goddess of justice and revenge. Greco-Roman.
 The dreaded deity who, with the Furies, is
 responsible for transporting the souls of the guilty
 to Tartarus. She is also described as the deification
 of indignation. Her presence may be symbolized
 by the fabulous winged griffon. Her cult was pre
dominantly at Rhamnus (Attica), where a mag
nificent temple was built in her honor in the fifth
 century BC, and in Smyrna. She also had a temple
 at Iconium in Asia Minor. According to legend,
 ZEUS raped her and she bore HELEN in conse
quence. In certain respects she provides a paral
lel with the goddess ERINYS. Her cult became one
 of morality.
 Nemetona
 Goddess of sacred groves. Romano-Celtic. Con
sort to the Roman deity MARS. Evidenced at
 places such as Bath (England) and Mainz (Ger
many); but also in place names which include the
 etymological base nemeton (a shrine).
 Ne’nenkicex
 Creator god. Kamchadal [southeastern Siberia].
 The name given to the Christian god by the
 Kamchadals under influence of the Russian
 Orthodox church.
 Neper
 God of grain crops. Egyptian. The son of the
 snake spirit RENENUTET, he is subservient to
 HAPY, the god of the Nile flood, and has links
 with OSIRIS as a vegetation deity who dies and is
 reborn to the afterlife. In female form the deity
 becomes Nepit.
 Nephthys [Greek]
 Funerary goddess. Egyptian. Nephthys is the
 younger sister of ISIS, OSIRIS and SETH, who are
 the offspring of the chthonic god GEB and the
218 Neptunus
 sky goddess NUT in the Ennead genealogy of
 Egyptian deities defined by the priests of
 Heliopolis. Nephthys is depicted in human form
 wearing a crown in the style of the hieroglyphic
 for a mansion, the translation of her Egyptian
 name. She can also take the form of a hawk
 watching over the funeral bier of Osiris. Accord
ing to legend Nephthys liaised briefly with Osiris
 and bore the mortuary god ANUBIS. She is said to
 guide the dead Egyptian ruler through the dark
 underworld and to weep for him. Also Neb-hut
 (Egyptian).
 Neptunus
 God of irrigation. Italic and Roman. Identified
 with the planet Neptune, but thought to have
 originated as an agricultural deity concerned with
 watering. He was celebrated in the festival of Nep
tunalia on July 23. Also the patron deity of horse
racing. He became syncretized with the Greek
 god POSEIDON, but Neptune’s modern associa
tion with the sea is a misrepresentation.
 Nereides
 Animistic spirits of the sea. Greco-Roman.
 Female personalities, the best known of whom is
 AMPHITRITE, assigned the guardianship of the
 oceans by the great gods and invoked by seafarers.
 Also attendants of the god POSEIDON.
 Nereus
 Minor sea god. Greek. The son of PONTOS and
 GAIA, and the father of the NEREIDES. 
See also PROTEUS.
 NERGAL
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. Chthonic underworld god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS Erakal, Lugalgirra, Meslamtaea.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Kuthu and Tarbisu.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae and 
glyptics.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts particularly
 Nergal and Eresˇkigal.
 The son of ENLIL and NINLIL and the consort of
 the underworld goddess ERESˇKIGAL. He is
 depicted as a god of war and sudden death as well
 as being ruler of the underworld. He may be also
 seen as a plague god. His sanctuary is known as
 the Emesˇlam. He is usually depicted as a bearded 
figure emerging from the ground and carrying 
a double-edged mace-scimitar typically embel
lished with lion heads. By the Hellenic period he
 is identified with the god HERAKLES.
 Nerrivik
 Sea goddess. Inuit. The mother of all sea crea
tures, invoked by fishermen and seal hunters. 
See also SEDNA.
 NERTHUS (north)
 ORIGIN probably Danish [Sjaeland, Denmark].
 Fertility goddess associated with peace.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa AD100, though
 probably much earlier, until AD 400 or later
 (difficult to determine).
 SYNONYMS none known.
 CENTER(S) OF WORSHIP a sacred grove “in an
 island of the ocean” identified only by the
 writer Tacitus.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Germania 40 (Tacitus). 
Some authors argue that Nerthus is a female
 counterpart, possibly the sister, of the Viking god
Nike 219
 NJORD. Tacitus alludes to her as TERRA MATER
 and describes how her cult statue was carried
 around in a covered sacred wagon drawn by oxen
 (see also FREYR).
 The vehicle was taboo to all but the priest of
 the goddess and, after each tour, was returned to
 the grove where it was washed and stored. 
All ministering attendants were immediately
 slaughtered. A pair of elaborate ceremonial wag
ons, dated to about AD 200, were excavated from
 a peat bog at Dejbjerg (Denmark) and are
 thought to be of a type that carried such a deity.
 Nesu
 Tutelary god of royalty. Fon [Benin, West Africa].
 The guardian of the tribal chiefs, his shrine, the
 Nese-we, is located close by royal palaces.
 Nethuns
 God of fresh water. Etruscan. Identified with
 wells and springs and depicted as a naked bearded
 figure. He is probably to be equated with the
 Roman god NEPTUNUS.
 Neti
 Chthonic underworld god. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Chief
 gatekeeper of the netherworld. The servant of
 the goddess ERESˇKIGAL. Neti features promi
nently in the epic legend of Inana’s Descent into
 the Underworld when he opens the seven gates 
of the realm and admits the goddess, removing
 one emblem of her power at the threshold of
 each gate.
 Nextepehua (ash-scatterer)
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 of deities belonging to the MICTLANTECUHTLI
 complex.
 Ngai
 Creator god. Kikuyu and Masai [East Africa]. The
 name given to a single god in the heavens, influ
enced by the spread of Christianity. He is also per
ceived as, and may have evolved from, a weather
 god whose presence is symbolized by lightning.
 Ngunuwo
 Generic title of guardian deities. Ewe [Togo,
 West Africa]. The name means, approximately,
 the fates.
 Ni
 Sea god. Chimu Indian (pre-Columbian South
 America) [coastal areas of Peru]. A significant
 deity in the pantheon, revered by fishermen.
 Often linked with SI, the moon god.
 Niamye
 Creator god. Baule [Ivory Coast, West Africa].
 He engendered a consort for himself and 
proceeded to create all other living things on
 earth. His anger is evidenced by lightning and
 thunderbolts.
 Niha-Tsu-Hi-No-Kami
 Fire god. Shinto [Japan]. Specifically the fire KAMI
 responsible for household fires in the yard.
 Nike
 Goddess of victory. Greco-Roman. Depicted as a
 winged messenger bringing the laurel wreath to
 the victor of battle. Though of Greek origin,
220 Nikkal
 Nin Me En
 appearing in the Theogony of Hesiod, she was
 adopted by the Romans and worshiped 
extensively throughout Asia Minor, including
 Sardis. In some depictions the goddess ATHENA
 carries NIKE as a small winged figure. Also 
VICTORIA (Roman).
 Nikkal
 Moon goddess. Western Semitic (Syrian). The
 consort of the moon god Jarih and probably
 evolved from the Mesopotamian pantheon.
 Niladanda
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian deity of the
 southwestern quarter. Color: blue. Attributes:
 jewel, lotus, staff, sword and trident.
 Niladevi (black goddess)
 Consort of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Puranic).
 Mentioned only in the Vaikhanasagama text as the
 third wife of Visˇnu, no art representation of this
 goddess has been discovered. She may be identi
cal with the goddess Pinnai known in Tamil
speaking regions.
 Nilalohita
 God. Hindu. One of the EKADASARUDRAS or
 eleven forms of the god RUDRA.
 Nin Ezen (La)
 Goddess. Sumerian. An alternative name for the
 goddess of healing, GULA.
 Nin Mar Ki
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). See 
NINMAH.
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Probably
 equating to NINMENA.
 Nin Ur
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Probably syn
onymous with NINURTA.
 Ninazu
 Chthonic god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Less
 frequently encountered in the texts than NER
GAL. Son of ENLIL and NINLIL or, in alternative
 traditions, of ERESˇKIGAL and the father of 
Ning-is-zida. The patron deity of Esˇnunna until
 superseded by TISPAK. His sanctuaries are 
the E-sikil and E-kurma. Also identified as a
 god of healing, he is (unlike Nergal) generally
 benevolent.
 Nindara
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). The consort of
 the goddess NANSˇE.
 Nindub
 God. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Locally known
 and identified with the city state of Lagasˇ.
 Ninegal (strong-armed lord)
 God of smiths. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). A minor patron deity.
 Ningal (great queen)
 Reed goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Ningal is the daughter
 of ENKI and NINGIKUGA and the consort of 
the moon god NANNA by whom she bore UTU
NINHURSAG ˜A 221
 the sun god. She was probably first worshiped
 by cow-herders in the marsh lands of 
southern Mesopotamia. Chiefly recognized 
at Ur.
 Ningikuga (lady of the pure reed)
 Goddess of reeds and marshes. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). One of the
 consorts of ENKI and the daughter of AN and
 NAMMU.
 Ningilin
 Obscure deity. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). His symbol is probably
 the mongoose. Also Ninkilim.
 Ningirama
 God of magic. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). A minor deity invoked
 particularly as a protection against snakes.
 Ningirsu
 Tutelary god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). His mother is NINHUR
SAG˜A. Known from the city of Lagas (Girsu)
 where Gudea built a major temple in his honor,
 the Eninnu. His symbol is a lion-headed eagle and
 his weapon the mace S ˇarur. Texts describe
 Ningirsu making a journey to Eridu to notify the
 god ENKI of Gudea’s achievement.
 Ningiszida
 The god of light coming from the horizon.
 Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylonian
Akkadian). Tutelary god of Gudea of Lagasˇ, the
 son of NINAZU. Identified in Akkadian texts and
 on a seal of Gudea. Also GISZIDA.
 NINHURSAG ˜A (queen of the mountain)
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. Mother goddess.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC until
 circa 1750 BC.
 SYNONYMS NINMAH (great queen); NINTU (lady
 of birth); Mama or MAMI (mother); ARURU
 (sister of ENLIL); BELET-ILI (lady of the gods—
 Akkadian). Minor SYNONYMS include Nin
ziznak (lady of the embryo); Nin-dim (lady
 fashioner); Nagar-sagak (carpenter of insides);
 Nin-bahar (lady potter); Nin-mag (lady vulva);
 Nin-sig-sig (lady of silence); Mud-kesda
 (blood-stauncher); Ama-dug-bad (mother
 spreading the knees); Ama-ududa (mother who
 has given birth); Sag-zu-dingirenak (midwife
 of the gods); Ninmenna (lady of the diadem).
 CENTER(S) OF WORSHIP Tell el ‘Ubaid [Ur]. Mari.
 Other temples, according to literature, were
 located at Kesˇ, Adab (modern Bismaya) and
 Hiza, none of which have been found. Smaller
 temples and shrines scattered around southern
 Mesopotamia and beyond.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae, glyptics.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts—epics includ
ing Enki and World Order and Creator of the Hoe,
 temple hymns, etc.
 Ninhursag˜a is one of seven great deities of Sumer.
 Assuming her symbol to be the §omega, it has
 been depicted in art from circa 3000 BC, though
 more generally from early second millennium. It
 appears on some kudurru boundary stones—on
 the upper tier, which indicates her importance.
 She is principally a fertility goddess though tech
nically any female deity could take on the role.
 Temple hymn sources identify her as the “true and
 great lady of heaven” and kings of Sumer were
 “nourished by Ninhursag˜a’s milk.” Distinct from
 the goddess INANA, she enjoys closer links with
 fecundity and birth and is sometimes portrayed as
 a midwife, or with bosom bare and carrying a
222 Ninigi
 Nin’insinna
 baby on her left arm. She is typically depicted
 wearing horned headdress and tiered skirt; often
 with bow cases at her shoulders; not infrequently
 carrying a mace or baton surmounted by the
 omega motif or a derivation; sometimes accompa
nied by a lion cub on a leash. The tutelary deity
 to several Sumerian rulers, in Creator of the Hoe
 she completed the birth of mankind after the
 heads had been uncovered by ENKI’s hoe.
 Most Mesopotamian gods lived in mountains and
 the name Ninhursag ˜a bears significance because,
 according to legend, it was changed from NINMAH
 by her son NINURTA to commemorate his creation
 of the mountains. Her name “lady of silence”
 derives from the notion that the child in the womb
 is susceptible to both good and bad influence. Thus
 the wrong incantations may jeopardize the child’s
 well-being. As “lady of the diadem,” according to
 a Babylonian investiture ritual, she placed the
 golden crown on the king in the Eanna temple.
 Ninigi (Prince)
 Ancestral god. Shinto [Japan]. The deity who,
 according to tradition, is the heir apparent of the
 sun goddess Amaterasu. He was sent to earth
 from heaven to rule at the behest of the gods. His
 parents are Taka-Mi-Musubi and Ame-No-Oshi
Ho-Mimi and he takes the title of “divine grand
child.” He is the ancestral deity of the imperial
 dynasties.
 Nin-Ildu
 God of carpenters. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Minor tutelary deity.
 Nin-Imma
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Deification of the female
 sex organs, fathered by Enki with Ninkurra.
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). A daughter of An and
 Urasˇ and probably an alternative name for Isˇtar.
 She is the consort of the god Pabilsag and is men
tioned in respect of a sanctuary built by Warad
 Sin during the Isin dynasty. Texts describe her
 going to present Enlil with gifts in Nippur. Other
 inscriptions suggest she was the mother of the
 god Damu (Dumuzi).
 Ninkarnunna
 Barber god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). An attendant of the god
 Ninurta.
 Ninkigal
 Chthonic god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Worshiped at Ur and Umma 
during the period of the third dynasty of Ur.
 Celebrations included the eses monthly lunar
 festivals.
 Ninkurra
 Minor mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Ninkurra is linked
 briefly as consort to Enlil (her grandfather), by
 whom after nine days of gestation she gave birth
 to the goddess Uttu. In alternative mythology she
 was the mother of Nin-imma, the deification of
 female sex organs.
 Ninlil
 Goddess of the air and of grain. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian). She is the daughter of the god of
 stores, Haia, and the barley goddess, Ninsebar
gunnu. The consort of the air god Enlil, who
 impregnated her with water to create the moon
Nintu 223
 god Nana, she also conceived the underworld god
 Nergal when Enlil impregnated her disguised as
 the gateman of Nippur. In a similar manner she
 conceived the underworld god Ninazu when Enlil
 impregnated her disguised as the “man of the
 river of the nether world, the man-devouring
 river.” According to some texts she is also the
 mother of Ninurta, the god of the plough and
 thunderstorms.
 Ninmah
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian 
and Babylonian-Akkadian). Probably an early
 syncretization with Ninhursag˜a. Identified in
 creation texts acting as midwife while the
 mother goddess Nammu makes different 
kinds of human individuals from lumps of clay
 at a feast given by Enki to celebrate the 
creation of humankind. Also regarded as 
the mother of the goddess Uttu by Enki. 
See also Ninhursag˜a.
 Ninmena  (lady of the crown)
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Probably became syncretized with Ninhursag˜a.
 Ninni
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). A modern
 mis-reading of Innin, which is itself an outmoded
 version of the name Inana.
 Nin-s ˇar (lady plant)
 Minor mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). Nin-sˇar is linked briefly as consort to either
 Enlil (her father) or Enki by whom, after nine
 days of gestation, she gave birth to the goddess
 Ninkurra who, in turn, became the mother of the
 goddess Uttu.
 Ninsikil
 The goddess of Dilmun. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). The patron deity of the mythical paradise
 land of Dilmun which seems to have been per
ceived as somewhere off the coast of the Persian
 Gulf but firmly beyond the frontiers of Sumer. It
 is Ninsikil who pleads with Enki to provide the
 earth with the boon of fresh water in the sacred
 rivers Tigris and Euphrates.
 Nins ˇubur
 Messenger god(dess). Mesopotamian (Sumerian
 and Babylonian-Akkadian). The servant of the
 goddess Inana, she is particularly prominent in
 the legend of Inana’s Descent and the Death of
 Dumuzi. In Akkadian texts the sex changes to a
 male personality, the minister of Anu.
 Ninsun(a) (lady wild cow)
 Cow goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Tutelary goddess of
 Gudea of Lagasˇ. Consort of the Sumerian heroic
 king Lugalbanda and also identified as the mother
 of the hero Gilgamesˇ.
 Nins ˇus ˇinak
 National god. Elamite [Iran]. Derived from a
 Sumerian model.
 Nintinugga
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). See Gula.
 Nintu
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). According to legend she
 pinched off fourteen pieces of primordial clay
 which she formed into womb deities, seven on
224 NINURTA
 the left and seven on the right with a brick
 between them, who produced the first seven pairs
 of human embryos. She is closely identified with
 the goddess Ninhursag˜a and may have become
 Belet Ili (mistress of the gods) when, at Enki’s
 suggestion, the gods slew one among themselves
 and used his blood and flesh, mixed with clay, to
 create mankind.
 NINURTA (lord plough)
 Orgin Mesopotamian (Sumerian and Babylon
ian-Akkadian) [Iraq]. God of thunderstorms
 and the plough.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS probably Ningirsu.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Nippur and, as Ningirsu, at
 Girsu.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae, glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES creation epics including Atra
hasis and Anzu; temple hymns, etc.
 Ninurta is the Sumerian god of farmers and is
 identified with the plough. He is also the god of
 thunder and the hero of the Sumerian pantheon,
 closely linked with the confrontation battles
 between forces of good and evil that characterize
 much of Mesopotamian literature. He is one of
 several challengers of the malignant dragon or
 serpent Kur said to inhabit the empty space
 between the earth’s crust and the primeval sea
 beneath. Ninurta is the son of Enlil and Ninhur
sag˜a, alternatively Ninlil, and is the consort of
 Gula, goddess of healing. He is attributed with
 the creation of the mountains which he is said to
 have built from giant stones with which he had
 fought against the demon Asag.
 He wears the horned helmet and tiered skirt
 and carries a weapon S ˇarur which becomes per
sonified in the texts, having its own intelligence
 and being the chief adversary, in the hands of
 Ninurta, of Kur. He carries the double-edged
 scimitar-mace embellished with lions’ heads and,
 according to some authors, is depicted in non
human form as the thunderbird lmdugud (sling
 stone), which bears the head of a lion and may
 represent the hailstones of the god. His sanctuary
 is the E-padun-tila.
 Ninurta is perceived as a youthful warrior and
 probably equates with the Babylonian heroic god
 Marduk. His cult involved a journey to Eridu
 from both Nippur and Girsu. He may be com
pared with Isˇkur, who was worshiped primarily by
 herdsmen as a storm god.
 Nirmali
 Birth goddess. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Goddess of
 the childbirth but usually separated from the rest
 of the village. She is invoked by women during
 labor or menstruation. Her sacred animal is the
 ram. There is an argument that she is, in fact, a
 manifestation of the goddess Disani rather than a
 distinct deity. Also Shuwe.
 Nirrti (destruction)
 1. Destructive goddess of darkness. Hindu (Vedic
 and Puranic). Known chiefly from the Rg-veda,
 Nirrti has a generally malignant aspect and is
 associated with pain, misfortune and death. She is
 believed to live in the south (the land of the dead).
 She is dark-skinned, wears dark dress and receives
 the “dark husks” of sacrifice. She is feared by
 many Hindus, whose offerings are frequent and
 repeated. In later Hinduism, Nirrti changes sex
 and becomes a dikpala god of terrifying appear
ance, guarding the southwestern quarter; he has
 various consorts including Davi, Kalika and
 Krsnangi. He stands upon a lion, a man or a
 corpse. Attributes: javelin, shield, staff, sword and
 teeth.
Nona 225
 2. God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian. Color:
 blue. Stands upon a corpse. Attributes: shield
 and sword.
 Niruktipratisamvit
 Goddess of etymological analysis. Buddhist
 (Vajrayana). One of a group of four. Color: red.
 Attributes: chain and lotus.
 Nissaba
 Goddess of writing and wisdom. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian). A daughter of AN and probably orig
inally a vegetation deity. Her symbol is the
 inscribing stylus. She is a patron deity of Unug
 [Warka].
 Nispannatara
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana).
 NJORD (north)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). God of the sea and
 winds.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period circa
 AD700and earlier, until Christianization (circa
 AD 1100).
 SYNONYMS possibly NERTHUS, though with
 change of sex from female to male.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known, but many place
 names along the Norwegian coast and inland by
 lakes and fjords suggest a widespread devotion.
 ART REFERENCES none known, but probably the
 subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose
 Edda (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); runic
 inscriptions.
 Njord originates as a VANIR deity, but during
 the war between Vanir and AESIR he is handed
 over as a hostage and becomes the pledge of
 truce between the two races. He is a god of 
seafarers and fishermen, and brings the wealth
 of the sea to mankind. He also controls the
 winds and storms. Consort of SKADI, the daugh
ter of the giant Thiassi, he is the father of FREYR
 and FREYJA. According to one poem, he lives
 among an enclosure of ships, Noatun. The 
use of ships as burial chambers was probably
 closely associated with Njord, and further links
 between ships and fertility seem well estab
lished, strengthening the connection with this
 Vanir deity.
 Nodotus
 Minor god of cereal crops. Romano-Celtic.
 Specifically the deity responsible for the well
being of grain stalks.
 Nomi-No-Sukune
 God of Sumo wrestlers. Shinto [Japan]. Accord
ing to tradition in the Nihongi text he came 
to prominence during the reign of the 
emperor Suinin-Tenno when he matched and
 worsted a strong man, Kuyahaya, in a wrestling
 contest. He killed the latter by aiming a kick 
at his ribs.
 Nommo
 Generic title of a group of gods. Dogon [West
 Africa]. The primordial spirits at the head of
 whom is the creator god AMMA. They are associ
ated with rain and fertility and have imparted cer
tain skills to mankind.
 Nona
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. Responsible for
 the ninth month of gestation, she is often linked
226 Nong
 Nrtya (dance) 
with the goddess DECIMA. In later Roman times
 she becomes one of a trio of goddesses of fate,
 with Decima and MORTA, the goddess of death,
 collectively known as the PARCAE.
 Nong
 God of winter and cold weather. Kafir
 [Afghanistan]. Nong lives in a glacier. He cracks
 the ice and is seen in the melt water. He is per
ceived as a misogynist and depicted in a wooden
 effigy, though whether in human form is
 unclear. His cult center seems to have been the
 village of Zumu in the southern Hindukush.
 Also Zuzum.
 Nortia
 Goddess of fate. Etruscan. She enjoyed an impor
tant sanctuary at Volsini, where her presence was
 symbolized by a large nail. In a New Year rite, the
 nail was hammered into a block of wood, proba
bly derived from an old fertility ritual symboliz
ing the impregnation of life into the new year. She
 has been identified with the Greek goddess
 TYCHE.
 Nosenga
 Tribal god. Korekore (Shona) [Zimbabwe, south
ern Africa]. He is accessible to mankind through
 a mortal medium or oracle known as Hore, who
 lives in the town of the tribal chief and is con
sulted only with the chief’s permission. Nosenga
 has several human priestess consorts who are
 wedded to him in chastity in the fashion of
 Christian nuns.
 Notus
 God of the southwest winds. Roman. Derived
 from a Greek model. Also Auster.
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of the ASTAMATARAS. Color: green or various.
 Attribute: staff.
 Nsongo
 Moon goddess. Bangala [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. The sister and consort of
 the supreme sun god LIBANZA. In the epic legend
 of Nsongo and Lianja she is the twin sister and
 consort of a deified folk-hero.
 Nu Kua
 Creator goddess. Chinese. A primordial deity
 who may be androgynous and who engendered
 mankind out of lumps of yellow clay. The inven
tion of the flute is also attributed to her. Also Nu
Gua.
 Nu Mus Da
 Tutelary god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). The
 patron deity of the lost city of Kazallu, mentioned
 in texts.
 NUADU (wealth)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Tribal war god associated
 with healing.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Nuada argatlam; Nodens (Romano
Celtic); Nudd (Welsh).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT the best known is the sanc
tuary of Nodens at Lydney, Gloucestershire,
 England.
 ART REFERENCES none specific, though possibly
 the subject of anonymous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings; votive inscriptions.
NUT 227
 One of the TUATHA DE DANANN who lost an 
arm at the Battle of Moytura against the Fir Bolg.
 The arm was replaced by the physician god
 DIANCECHT who made a prosthesis out of silver,
 hence Nuada argatlam (Nuadu of the silver hand).
 The original sanctuary at Lydney in Gloucester
shire was taken over and enlarged by the Romans
 who renamed the god Nodens. Also considered to
 be the father of the Irish royal dynasty.
 Nudimmud
 Creator god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Rapidly
 syncretized with the Akkadian god EA.
 Nuli’rahak (big woman)
 Sea spirit. Siberian Inuit. A fearsome old woman
 who lives in the ocean depths and owns all the sea
 creatures. She feeds off the bodies of drowned
 fishermen. 
See also ARNA’KUAGSAK.
 Nun
 Primordial god. Egyptian. One of the eight
 deities of the OGDOAD representing chaos, he is
 coupled with the goddess NAUNET and appears in
 anthropomorphic form but with the head of a
 frog. No cult is addressed to Nun but he is typi
cally depicted holding aloft the solar barque or
 the sun disc. He may appear greeting the rising
 sun in the guise of a baboon. Nun is otherwise
 symbolized by the presence of a sacred cistern or
 lake as in the sanctuaries of Karnak and Dendara.
 Nunbarsegunu
 Obscure mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian and Babylonian-Akkadian). Mentioned in cre
ation texts as the “old woman of Nippur,” she is
 identified as the mother of NINLIL, the air goddess.
 Nunbarsegunu allegedly instructs her daughter in
 the arts of obtaining the attentions of ENLIL.
 Nurelli (Nooralie)
 Creator god. Australian aboriginal. Chiefly
 revered among the Wiimbaio aborigines living in
 the area of the Murray River, he is believed to
 have created the land of Australia and then
 brought law and order to humankind. His son is
 Gnawdenoorte.
 Nus ˇku
 God of light. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). The son of ENLIL. Also a
 god of fire, he is symbolized by a lamp. Sanctuar
ies have been identified at Harran and Neirab.
 NUT
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Creator goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC and
 probably earlier, until the end of Egyptian his
tory circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Heliopolis, Karnak and
 many other sanctuaries throughout Egypt. 
ART REFERENCES wall paintings in the royal
 tombs at Thebes; sarcophagi, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts, etc.
 Nut is the most important female principle of the
 creation force in Egyptian cosmogony. According
 to the Ennead genealogy of the Heliopolis priests,
 she is the daughter of the god S ˇU and the goddess
 TEFNUT. Generally, however, she is seen as the
 creator goddess who, with the sun god, gives birth
 to the other deities of the pantheon. In legend she
 becomes the consort of her brother, the chthonic
 god GEB. Their partnership generates ISIS,
 OSIRIS, SETH and NEPHTHYS. In her earliest
228 Nu’tenut
 appearances Nut is a celestial cow stretching
 across the sky, often held aloft by the figure of the
 air god S ˇu. This depiction continues into later
 times. In human form she often appears as a slim,
 arched figure, nude and balanced on her toes and
 fingertips, which touch the four cardinal points of
 the compass. In this posture she forms an arch
 over Geb, whose erect penis points upwards
 toward her. She is alternatively often supported
 and separated from Geb by S ˇu.
 Nut is perceived as the barrier of the firma
ment which separates the ordered cosmos from
 primordial matter. The thunder is her laughter.
 The solar barque travels along the arch of her
 body, entering her mouth as night falls to pass
 through her and emerge at dawn from her
 vulva.
 In a funerary context, when the ruler dies he is
 said to be enfolded by the arms of Nut and to pass
 within her body: “the doors of the sky are opened
 to him.”
 Nu’tenut
 Earth spirit. Chukchee [eastern Siberia]. The
 owner of the world who sits in a large house built
 of iron. He is surrounded by the spirits of sun,
 moon, sky, sea, dawn, darkness and world who
 are suitors for his daughter (unnamed).
 Nyakaya
 Crocodile goddess. Shilluk [Sudan]. A deity resid
ing in the Nile, she is the consort of Okwa and the
 mother of the first Shilluk king. Shilluks continue
 to sacrifice to Nyakaya.
 Nyame
 Creator god. Akan [southern Ghana, West
 Africa]. An androgynous being symbolized in his
 male aspect by the sun, and his female aspect by
 the moon. He gave mankind its soul and is the
 controller of destiny. He enjoys a dedicated
 priesthood and is worshiped in the form of a tree
 trunk. Also Odomankoma; Onyame; Onyanko
pon; Totrobonsu.
 gNyan
 Tree spirits, Tibetan. Malevolent forces residing
 in the mountains which can bring sickness or
 death.
 Nyavirezi
 Lion goddess. Rwanda [central Africa]. According
 to legend she was originally a mortal daughter of
 the tribal chief. While walking, she was trans
formed into a lioness. Though returning to
 human form, she occasionally became leonine
 again and, in this guise, slew at least one husband
 who discovered her secret.
 Nyx
 Primordial goddess. Greek. The essence of the
 night whose sons were the twin brothers HYPNOS,
 god of sleep, and THANATOS, god of death.
 Nzambi
 Creator god. Bakongo [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. He created the first mor
tal pair or, in alternative tradition, an androgy
nous being in the guise of a palm tree called
 Muntu Walunga (the complete person). He also
 endowed this being with intelligence. In wooden
 sculptures the tree bears a woman’s head and
 breast on one side and a bearded face on the
 other. Eventually the tree divided into two sepa
rate sexes. Also Nyambi; Nzambe; Yambe; Zambi.
Nzapa
 Nze 229
 Nze
 Creator god. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. One of seven deities
 invoked at sunrise each morning. The progeni
tor of all life on earth, he also gave mankind 
laws and controls destiny or fate. He has four
 children who specifically appear in the guise of
 palm trees.
 Moon god. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. One of the seven children
 of KETUA, the god of fortune and LOMO, the god
dess of peace. He is closely linked with women
 and fertility. At menstruation he is said to have
 “cut the girl” and, during pregnancy, “the moon
 is dark for her.”
6
 O
 Obarator
 God of agriculture. Roman. Specifically respon
sible for overseeing the top-dressing of crops.
 Obatala
 Fertility god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa]. The
 first deity engendered by the creator god OLODU
MARE. His consort is Yemowo. Among other
 responsibilities, he makes barren women fertile
 and shapes the fetus in the womb. He is considered
 to be the sculptor of mankind. He is depicted wear
ing white robes and symbolizes cleanliness. Offer
ings include coconuts and maize fruits. A jar of
 clean water is carried by a priestess to his sanctu
ary each morning and the water is drunk by women
 to make them fertile. Also Orishanla (archaic);
 Orisha-Popo; Orisha-Ogiyan; Orisha-Ijaye.
 Occator
 God of agriculture. Roman. Specifically respon
sible for overseeing growth and harvesting of
 crops.
 Ocelotl
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The sun deity representing the first of
 the five world ages, each of which lasted for 2,028
 heavenly years, each heavenly year being fifty
two terrestrial years. Assigned to the earth and
 presided over by TEZCATLIPOCA. According to
 tradition, the age was populated by a race of
 giants and it ended in a catalclysmic destruction
 caused by huge and ferocious jaguars which
 devoured them. Illustrated by the Stone of the Four
 Suns [Yale Peabody Museum]. Also Oceloto
natiuh; Yoaltonatiuh; Tlalchitonatiuh.
 Ocelus
 God of healing. Romano-Celtic (British). He
 becomes largely syncretized with the Roman god
 MARS, thus there is an inscription to Mars Ocelus
 at Carlisle.
 Odin See OTHIN.
 Oduduwa
 Creator goddess. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 The consort, or alternatively the daughter, of
 the supreme god OLODUMARE. She is perceived
 as the substance, or matrix, of the earth which
 Olodumare impregnated to generate life. She is
 also a goddess of war and her sons include the
 230
Okeanides 231
 great heroic Yoruba god OGUN. According to
 some traditions Oduduwa is also perceived as 
a god.
 Ogdoad
 Primordial forces. Egyptian. The elements of
 chaos, eight in number, which existed before
 the creation of the sun god and which are
 known from Khemnu in Middle Egypt (Greek
 Heliopolis). The Ogdoad also had a sanctuary 
at Medinet Habu. They created, out of them
selves rather than by sexual coupling, the
 mound which emerged from the primeval
 waters and upon which rested the egg from
 which the young sun god emerged. They are
 usually depicted as baboons heralding the sun as
 it rises. They are grouped in pairs and include
 NUNand NAUNET representing the primordial
 abyss, KEK and KAUKET representing darkness,
 HEH and HAUHET representing infinity, and
 AMUN and AMAUNET representing hidden
 power.
 Ogma See OGMIUS. 
Ogmios See OGMIUS. 
Ogmius
 God of poetry and speech. Celtic (Irish). Very lit
tle is known of him, but the Roman writer
 Lucian mentions a Romano-Celtic god of 
wisdom, Ogmios, apparently assimilated with
 HERCULES and described as an old man with
 lion’s skin holding a crowd of people chained to
 his tongue by their ears.
 NOTE: a goddess Ogma is also mentioned; she
 may have been a mother goddess in the original
 Irish pantheon.
 Ogiuwu
 God of death. Edo [Benin, West Africa]. Believed
 to own the blood of all living things which he
 smears on the walls of his palace in the other
world. Until recent times human sacrifice was
 made regularly to this deity in the capital of the
 Edo region, Benin City.
 Ogun
 God of war, hunting and metalwork. Edo [Benin,
 West Africa]. This rather loosely defined deity
 was sent by the god OSANOBUA to cut open the
 land to allow crops to be planted. He is the
 strength inherent in metals and piles of metal
 objects are left beside his sanctuaries. As a god of
 war he defends the tribe and is depicted wearing
 armor and with red eyes. As a god of hunters and
 farmers he is generally benevolent.
 Ohoroxtotil (god almighty)
 Creator god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The creator of the sun and the 
deity who made the world inhabitable for mankind
 by destroying the jaguars which once infested it.
 Oi
 Sickness god. Suk [western Kenya, East Africa]. A
 spirit of personal illness rather than plague. The
 sick person’s house is emptied and the priest exor
cizes Oi out of the dwelling.
 O-lwa-Dai-Myojin
 God of stoneworkers. Shinto and Buddhist
 [Japan]. Probably more a Buddhist deity, but also
 revered in Shintoism.
 Okeanides
 Sea deities. Greco-Roman. Minor goddesses
 assigned the guardianship of oceans by the great
232 Okeanos
 gods and invoked by seafarers. In alternative 
tradition, they are river gods, the sons of
 OKEANOS.
 Okeanos
 God of the oceans. Greek. A deity who remained
 at his post when most of the other gods were
 summoned to Olympus by ZEUS. His consort is
 TETHYS and he fathered children who included
 the OKEANIDES, mainly river gods, and a large
 number of daughters headed by STYX, and includ
ing DORIS, METIS, and TYCHE. 
Oki-Tsu-Hiko-No-Kami
 God of kitchens. Shinto [Japan]. One of the off
spring of O-Toshi-No-Kami, the god of harvests.
 The consort of Oki-Tsu-Hime-No-Kami and
 responsible for the caldron in which water is
 boiled.
 Oko (hoe)
 God of agriculture. Yoruba [Nigeria, West
 Africa]. According to tradition he descended
 from heaven and lived at a farm near the town
 of Irao, where he attained a great age. One 
day he disappeared, leaving only his staff 
which was taken as a symbol of his presence.
 Annually, at the start of the rainy season, a 
festival with strong fertility emphasis is held 
in his honor.
 O-Kuni-Nushi-No-Mikoto
 Creator god. Shinto [Japan]. The great organ
izer and consolidator of the earth in the 
creation mythology of Shintoism. He took up
 his duties after IZANAGI and IZANAMI had cre
ated the land. Tradition has it that he first
 underwent a series of ordeals and then reigned
 over the world. He has many consorts and innu
merable offspring.
 Ola Bibi
 Local plague goddess. Hindu. Worshiped in Ben
gal where she is associated with cholera.
 Olodumare
 Creator god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa]. He
 engendered the god OBATALA as his deputy. The
 souls of the dead are expected to make confession
 to Olodumare. When he created the earth, he
 filled a snail’s shell with dirt, placed inside it a
 hen and a pigeon and threw it down, whereupon
 the hen and pigeon began to scatter the earth and
 create land. Olodumare then sent a chameleon
 to report on progress. Sand was added, followed
 by a palm, a coconut and a kola nut tree. When
 these were established the god placed on earth the
 first sixteen humans. Also Alaaye; Elemii; Olojo
 Oni; Olorun; Orishanla.
 Olokun
 God of fresh waters and oceans. Fon and Yoruba
 [Benin and Nigeria, West Africa]. The eldest son
 of the creator god OSANOBUA. He is symbolized
 in the sacred river Olokun, which runs almost the
 length of Benin and from the source of which
 come the souls of unborn children. A girl baby is
 given a shrine of the god which includes a pot of
 river water and which she takes with her to her
 new home when she marries. The god is particu
larly popular among women and has a cult of
 priestesses. Olokun is also a guardian deity of
 mariners.
 Olorun See OLODUMARE. 
Omacatl
 Onuris 233
 Minor god of feasting and revelry. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the TEZCATLIPOCA complex. Also
 (2)Acatl.
 Ome Tochtli
 Fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Slaughtered and then revived by TEZ
CATLIPOCA. Head of the group classed as the Ome
tochtli complex of fertility deities who personified
 the maguey plant and the intoxicating drink
 brewed from it, pulque or octli. Also (2) Tochtli.
 O’meal
 Tribal spirit. Na’kwaxdax Indian [British Colum
bia, Canada]. The chief of the ancients who lives
 in “Narrow Entrance at Open Plain” and whose
 siblings are the “myth people.”
 OMETECUHTLI (two lord)
 ORIGIN Toltec-Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Supreme deity.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to
 Spanish conquest circa AD 1500 but probably
 much earlier.
 SYNONYMS Olin-Tonatiuh.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT None.
 ART REFERENCES codex illustrations; stone 
carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 The supreme being of Aztec religion, the god
 represents dual aspects of all living things and of
 the fecundity of the natural world. One of the
 group classed as the OMETEOTL complex. Prob
ably of Toltec origin, “he” is perceived as androg
ynous. He has no sanctuaries, but is personified in
 the moment of birth, or in the conception of life.
 He is depicted in human form and is often accom
panied by the further depiction of a couple
 engaged in sexual intercourse.
 The household hearth is sacred to Ometecuhtli
 and he is closely linked with the fire god XIUHTE
CUHTLI. For alternative creation mythology see
 TEZCATLIPOCA.
 Ometeotl  (two god)
 Primordial being. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. According to some traditions, the dual
 principle personified in a bisexual force which the
 Aztecs believed to be the only reality, all else
 being illusory. Ometeotl rules in the highest (thir
teenth) heaven, Omeyocan (place of duality)
 which rests above sun, moon, wind and other
 elements. Ometeotl impregnated itself to engen
der the four TEZCATLIPOCAS (aspects of the sun).
 Another female aspect, COATLICUE, gave birth to
 the national Aztec god HUITZILOPOCHTLI. No
 formal cult existed for Ometeotl, but he was con
sidered to be present in every aspect of ritual. 
See also TONACATECUHTLI and TONACACIHUATL.
 Omichle
 Primordial principle. Phoenician (Hellenic). The
 element of darkness in chaos which fuses, or con
sorts, with POTHOS to engender the spiritual and
 physical elements of the cosmos.
 Onuava
 Fertility goddess. Celtic (Gallic). Associated with
 the earth and known only from inscriptions.
 Onuris [Greek]
 God of hunting and war. Egyptian. Onuris is first
 known from This, near Abydos in Upper Egypt.
234 Opo
 Orcus
 In later times his main cult center was at Saman
nud in the Nile delta. His consort is the lion god
dess Mekhit. Onuris is generally depicted in
 human form as a bearded figure wearing a crown
 with four plumes and wielding a spear or occa
sionally holding a rope. He is sometimes accom
panied by Mekhit in iconography. Seen as a
 hunter who caught and slew the enemies of RE,
 the Egyptian sun god, some legends place him
 close to the battle between HORUS and SETH. In
 classical times, Onuris became largely syncretized
 with the Greek war god ARES. Also Anhuret
 (Egyptian).
 Opo
 God of the ocean. Akan [Ghana, West Africa].
 One of the sons of the creator god NYAME, he is
 also considered to be the god of the great inland
 lakes and rivers of Ghana.
 Opochtli (left)
 Minor god of lake fishermen and hunters. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 group classed as the TLALOC complex.
 Ops
 Goddess of harvests. Greco-Roman. Honored in
 an annual festival on August 25. She is also con
cerned with regulating the proper growth of
 seeds. A sanctuary is dedicated to her in the Regia
 in Rome.
 Oraios (wealth)
 Primordial deity. Gnostic Christian. One of the
 androgynous elements born to YALDABAOTH, the
 prime parent, and ruler of the seven heavens of
 chaos in Gnostic mythology.
 Chthonic underworld god. Roman. Modeled on
 the Greek god HADES.
 Ordog
 Chthonic malevolent god. Pre-Christian Hun
garian. After Christianization he became syn
cretized with the devil.
 Oreades
 Animistic spirits of the mountains. Greco
Roman. Female personalities assigned the
 guardianship of mountains by the great gods.
 Invoked by travelers to ensure their safety.
 Ori (mind)
 God of wisdom. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 The deity who, in heaven, guides the soul but
 who also acts as a personal guardian, controlling
 individual mental ability, so that one person
 becomes wise and another foolish.
 Orisanla
 Sky god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa]. Delegated
 by OLODUMARE as a creator of earth and living
 things.
 Oro
 God of war. Polynesian [Tahiti]. One of the sons
 of TANGAROA.
 Orotalt
 Tutelary god. Pre-Islamic Arabian. Thought to
 equate with the northern Arabian god RUDA
 (Ruldaiu). Mentioned by Herodotus in Hellenic
times as a supreme god and possibly syncretized
 OSIRIS 235
 with DIONYSOS.
 Orthia
 Mother goddess. Sparta. Locally worshiped and
 probably soon syncretized with the more widely
 recognized maternal deities of Asia Minor such as
 KYBELE.
 Orunmila
 God of destiny. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 He accompanied the creator god OLODUMARE at
 the creation of the world and when the destinies
 of mankind were decided. He is consulted in an
 oracular capacity at IFA and makes decisions on
 such matters as choice of sacrificial animals. He is
 also a god of healing and in many households
 enjoys personal shrines which include palm nuts,
 fragments of ivory and sea shells.
 Osande
 Guardian deity. Ovimbundu [central Angola,
 southwest Africa]. A benign elderly god who
 forms an integral part of ancestor worship. Con
sidered to be the founder of each family lineage.
 Osanobua
 Creator god. Edo [Benin, West Africa]. The
 father of the god OLOKUN, he is regarded as a
 benevolent deity controlling prosperity, health
 and happiness.
 OSIRIS
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Chthonic god of the under
world, also a corn or vegetation god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 the end of  Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none, but many epithets are applied,
 reflecting the universality of his cult.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT many throughout Egypt but
 chiefly at Abydos (Ibdju) in Upper Egypt and
 Busiris (Djedu) in the Nile delta of Lower
 Egypt. Other important sanctuaries are located
 at Biga (Senmet) in Upper Egypt south of
 Aswan, and at the Karnak complex of Thebes.
 Outside Egypt there is a major sanctuary at
 Philae in Greece.
 ART REFERENCES innumerable sculptures, stone
 reliefs, wall paintings and papyrus illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; coffin texts
 including the Book of the Dead, etc.
 Osiris is among the most significant and widely
 revered deities of the Egyptian pantheon. Accord
ing to the genealogy drawn up by the priests at
 Heliopolis, he was born at Rosetau in the necrop
olis (gate of the underworld) of Memphis. His
 parents were GEB and NUT and he was the eldest
 of four siblings including his sister and consort
 ISIS, his adversary SETH and younger sister NEPH
THYS. Isis bore the god HORUS having impreg
nated herself with the semen of Osiris after his
 death. Though Osiris is most closely linked with
 Isis, he is also associated with ANUBIS, the mor
tuary god of embalming and the scorpion-like
 mortuary goddess SERKET.
 Osiris is depicted in human form but often
 tightly wrapped in mummy linen with only his
 arms free, He holds the crook and flail. His
 crown, the atef, is distinctive, consisting of the
 conical white crown of Lower Egypt framed by
 tall plumes and rams’ horns. Often his skin is col
ored green. Osiris was perceived as the counter
part in death of the sun god RE.
 As a grain god, Osiris was worshiped in the
 form of a sack filled with seed which sprouted
 green. He is also depicted by models with articu
lated members which women paraded through
 the streets at festivals and manipulated to demon
236 Ostara
 strate the god’s virility. His relationship with the
 Egyptian kingship was crucial. Each king was the
 divine embodiment of Horus in life, but became
 Osiris on his death.
 The Osirian legend is known from pure Egypt
ian textual sources and from an embellished
 account of the Greek writer Plutarch. The latter
 describes how Osiris was persuaded by Seth to
 step into an exactly fitting sarcophagus during a
 drunken party. The coffin was nailed tight and
 thrown into the Nile. It was washed ashore at
 Byblos in the Lebanon where it became encased
 in the trunk of a growing tree. Eventually, the
 trunk was cut down and incorporated as a pillar in
 the palace of the local ruler. After years of search
ing, Isis found Osiris and brought his body home.
 She breathed life into it and impregnated herself
 with Osiris’s semen. She bore his son Horus.
 Meanwhile Seth found the body and once more
 destroyed it by hacking it into fourteen pieces
 and scattering them along the Nile valley. With
 the exception of Osiris’s penis, which Seth had
 thrown to a crocodile, Isis found all the pieces
 and buried them at the sites of various sanctuar
ies. She restored the penis with a replica which
 subsequently became a focus of the Osirian cult.
 The scattering of the body was allegorized with
 the winnowing and scattering of grain in the
 fields.
 The purely Egyptian account omits the inci
dent of the sarcophagus and the discovery at Byb
los. Isis is sometimes represented in the form of a
 hawk being impregnated by the erect phallus of
 the dead god. The reference to the fate of the
 penis with a crocodile is also omitted. In the
 Egyptian version, the god’s phallus was buried at
 Memphis.
 Ostara
 Sun goddess. Germanic. Associated with the
 coming of spring and one of the derivations of the
 term Easter, she equates with the Anglo-Saxon
 deity EOSTRE.
 Ostaraki (covering)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Osun
 River goddess. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 The daughter of Oba Jumu and Oba Do and the
 consort of the god SHANGO. The guardian deity
 of the river Osun, revered particularly in the
 towns and villages along the banks of the river
 where sacred weapons are kept in her shrines.
 Also a goddess of healing. She is worshiped par
ticularly by women and is honored in an annual
 festival, the Ibo-Osun, during which new cultic
 priestesses are selected.
 OTHIN (all father)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) and Germanic. Head
 of the Aesir sky gods and principal god of 
victory in battle. God of the dead.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period (circa
 AD700) and earlier through to Christianization
 (circa AD 1100) and beyond.
 SYNONYMS Odin; Sigtyr (god of victory); 
Val-father (father of the slain); One-eyed;
 Hanga-god (god of the hanged); Farma
god (god of cargoes); Hapta-god (god of 
prisoners).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Uppsala (Sweden).
 ART REFERENCES various stone carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose
 Edda (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); votive
 inscriptions.
 Othin is the chief among the Viking AESIR sky
 gods, the lord of hosts and god of victory who
Oxlahun Ti Ku 237
 lives in the Hall of Valhalla in Asgard. He rules
 over an army of warrior spirits, the Valkyries.
 Othin peoples Valhalla with chosen heroes, slain
 in battle on earth, who will defend the realm of
 the gods against the Frost Giants on the final day
 of reckoning, Ragnarok, the doom of the gods.
 Othin passes out magic weapons to his selected
 earthly heroes including Sigmund the Volsung
 (see also BAAL). In spite of his eminence Othin is
 considered to be untrustworthy, a breaker of
 promises. He rides a winged eight-legged horse,
 Sleipnir, and is able to change shape at will, an
 indication that he derives from an older, shaman
istic religion.
 His symbol is the raven and his weapon is a
 spear carved with runes or treaties said, when
 hurled by the god, to influence the course of com
bat. He is also symbolized by a knotted device, the
 valknut, probably representing his power to bind
 or unbind the minds of warriors and thus influ
ence the outcome of battle. Othin is perceived as
 a shaman, his constant desire the pursuit of occult
 knowledge through communication with the
 dead. He wanders the earth disguised as a traveler,
 and once pierced himself with his own spear and
 hung himself from the World Tree, Yggdrasill, to
 this end. He gave an eye to the god MIMIR as pay
ment for permission to drink from the well of
 knowledge which rises from a spring beneath the
 tree.
 Othin has links with the goddess FREYJA in lit
erature. The goddess SKADI, wife of NJORD in
 some legends, was reputed also to have borne
 children to Othin, thus linking him with the
 VANIR gods. Adam of Bremen reports a special
 festival of the gods in Uppsala when men and ani
mals were slaughtered and hung in trees. Follow
ers of Othin were also burnt on funeral pyres.
 Othin is thought to have evolved as a syncretiza
tion of the Germanic war gods WODAN and
 TIWAZ. He was the patron god of a fanatical war
rior cult, the Berserks.
 As Wotan, the image of Othin was popular
ized by Richard Wagner in his epic operatic
 cycle “Der Ring des Nibelung.” The god’s myth
ical biography is, however, most extensively
 drawn by the 12th-century Icelandic poet and
 historian Snorri Sturluson. He refers to Othin
 as “a mighty one,” but describes, in detail, how
 he was instrumental in the breaking of impor
tant oaths to the giants. It was this shortcoming
 that led eventually to the downfall of the Aesir
 pantheon. 
O-Toshi-No-Kami
 God of harvests. Shinto [Japan]. The son of
 SUSANO-WO and Kamu-O-Ichi-Hime, he heads
 the pantheon of agricultural deities and is gener
ally the guardian of rice fields.
 Ouranos
 Primordial god of heaven. Greek. The creator and
 incestuous consort of the earth mother GAIA with
 whom he engendered six giant sons—OKEANOS,
 Koeos, Kreos, HYPERION, IAPETOS and
 KRONOS—and six daughters—Klymene, RHEA,
 THEA, THETIS, MNEMOSYNE and Phoebe—the
 twelve collectively being known as the TITANS.
 Fearing their power, Ouranos hurled them into
 the abyss of Tartaros and chained them up.
 Owiot
 Moon god. Luiseno Indian [California, USA].
 The ancestral deity of the tribe.
 Oxlahun Ti Ku
 Sky gods. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. The collective name for a group of thirteen
 celestial deities who are probably still invoked by
 Mesoamerican Indians today.
238 Oya
 O-Yama-Tsu-Mi
 Oya
 River goddess. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa]. The
 consort of the god SHANGO, she is the guardian
 deity of the river Niger. Also a goddess of storms
 and thunder. Her sacred animal is the buffalo and
 her presence is symbolized by its horns.
 God of mountains. Shinto [Japan]. The most sen
ior apotheosis of mountains in Japan, he is one of
 the sons of IZANAGI and IZANAMI and is worshiped
 extensively.
6
 P
 Pa-bil-sag
 Tutelary god of Isin. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). The consort of the god
dess NIN’INSINNA. Identified with the city of Larak
 (lost), texts describe Pabilsag journeying to Nippur
 and presenting the god ENLIL with gifts. He is given
 the epithet of “the wild bull with multicolored legs.”
 Paca-Mama (earth mother)
 Chthonic earth goddess. Inca (pre-Columbian
 South America) [highlands of Peru]. Worshiped
 extensively by farmers but now largely syn
cretized with the Christian Virgin Mary.
 Pachacamac (earth creator)
 Creator god. South American Indian [Lima
 region of Peru]. Near the town of Pachacamac is
 the site of a huge pyramidal sanctuary dedicated
 to the god. In origin he is pre-Inca but the Inca
 rulers who took over the region allowed his wor
ship to continue; eventually he became syn
cretized with the god VAIRACOCHA.
 Padma (lotus)
 1. Snake god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of
 a group of seven MAHANAGAS. Attributes: rosary
 and water jar. Three-eyed.
 2. Goddess. An incarnation of LAKSMI, the con
sort of an avatara of VISˇNU. She is depicted as
 emanating from the padma or lotus (Nelumbium
 speciosum) which is the symbol of creation and one
 of the most important iconographic devices in
 Hinduism. Also KAMALA.
 Padmantaka (destructive to the lotus)
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the west
ern direction. Color: red. Attributes: jewel, red
 lotus, prayer wheel and sword. Three-headed.
 Padmapani (with lotus in hand)
 God. Buddhist. A BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate, and a distinct form of AVALOKITES
VARA. Color: white or red. Attributes: book, image
 of Amitabha on the crown, knot of hair, lotus,
 rosary, trident and waterjar. Three-eyed.
 Padmatara (lotus Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana).
 Padmosnisa
 God. Buddhist. Apparently connected with the
 guardian deities or dikpalas and associated with
 the western direction. Color: red.
 239
240 Paean
 Paean See PAIAWON.
 Pahteeatl (medicine lord)
 Minor fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the group of deities known
 as the Ometochtli complex and concerned with
 the brewing of the alcoholic drink pulque from
 the maguey plant.
 Paiawon
 War god. Greek and Cretan. Known from Knos
sos and mentioned in the Iliad (Homer) as Paean.
 Painal (hasty)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the group of deities
 known as the HUITZILPOCHTLI complex to
 whom sacrifice of captured prisoners was regu
larly offered.
 Pajainen
 God. Pre-Christian Finnish. The deity who kills
 the great bull in Finnish legend.
 Pajonn
 God of thunder. Pre-Christian Lappish. The
 name is derived from “the one who dwells in the
 heaven.”
 PAK TAI
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). Astral god of war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP probably from
 Shang Dynasty (second millennium BC) until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Hsuan T’ien Shang Ti; Shang-ti yeh
 (Taiwanese).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Palace of Jade Vacuity on
 Cheung Chau Island.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and untranslated.
 As first general of heaven’s armies, he is regarded
 as a guardian of the Chinese state comparable to
 KUAN TI, but older in mythology and identified
 with the north. According to tradition he lived
 circa 2000 BC and was deified during the war
 between the Chou and Shang dynasties. During his
 mortal lifetime he was allegedly responsible for the
 introduction of flood control and land drainage
 systems. Alternatively, he spent much of his life
 seeking a Buddhist-style perfection on the moun
tain of Wu T’ang Shan. He was taken to heaven to
 assist the established pantheon in defeating two
 traditional monsters, the tortoise and the snake.
 Pak Tai hurled them into a deep chasm and, on his
 return, was made first lord of heaven.
 He is also titled emperor of the north. His full
 title, Hsuan T’ien Shang Ti, means superior ruler
 of the dark heaven, as distinct from the moving
 and more accessible heaven ruled by the god
 HUANG TI. Before his deification, the north of
 China was believed to be ruled by the tortoise, the
 so-called dark warrior. 
Pak Tai is also closely connected with death and
 fertility. He is a guardian of society who may
 descend from heaven to restore stability in times
 of unrest or destruction. On the island of Cheung
 Chau he is believed to have been responsible for
 ending a plague which afflicted the islanders at
 the end of the nineteenth century.
 Pakhet
 Goddess of hunting. Egyptian. Known locally
 from the eastern desert regions with a sanctuary
 at Beni Hasan.
Palaemon
 Pancanana 241
 Minor sea god. Greco-Roman. Originally Melik
ertes, the son of Ino, Palaemon was deified by the
 gods when his mother hurled herself from a cliff
 with her son in her arms. According to versions of
 the legend she was either insane or escaping the
 wrath of Athanas, King of Thebes.
 Palaniyantavan
 Local god. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil). Known only
 from southern India and considered to be a form
 of SKANDA or of MURUKAN, who is an old Tamil
 tribal snake god.
 Pales
 Pastoral goddess. Roman. A guardian of flocks
 and herds. Her festival was celebrated annually in
 Rome on April 21.
 Pallas (Athene)
 Goddess. Greek. The full name of the deity who
 is thus Pallas of Athens. The origin and meaning
 of the word Pallas is unknown. 
See also ATHENA.
 PAN
 ORIGIN Greco-Roman. God of shepherds and
 personification of undisciplined procreation in
 nature.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC and
 earlier until Christianization circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Consentes.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Arcadia; Marathon (Attica).
 ART REFERENCES stone reliefs and carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Theogony (Hesiod), etc.
 According to tradition, Pan is the son of HERMES
 (Mercury) and a nymph, Penelope. One of the
 company of SATYRS, Pan possesses the horns and
 feet of a goat, is typically shown with phallic con
notations and is reputed to live in caves. Well
known as a pipe player, an interest stemming
 from an infatuation with the nymph Syrinx,
 whom the earth goddess GAIA changed into a
 clump of reeds to protect her from Pan’s amorous
 advances. The pipes of Pan are cut from hollow
 reeds and called the syrinx. The name Pan may
 also be applied in a pluralistic sense. Pan’s repu
tation extended to sudden frightening of travelers,
 whence derives the term “panic.” Pan is depicted
 wearing a garland of pine boughs and bearing the
 syrinx pipes and a shepherd’s crook.
 Panao
 Creator god. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Local deity wor
shiped in Ashkun villages in southwestern Kafiris
tan. Also a generic title for deities controlling the
 natural world and said to live in the mountains.
 These include Lutkari Panao (fertility), Saramun
 Panao (health), Plossa Panao (rain and good
 health), Passamun Panao (rain and good health),
 Indermun Panao (fruit and wine), and Malek Panao
 (nut trees). These gods were generally worshiped in
 sacred open spaces where their wooden images
 were regularly drenched with blood sacrifices.
 Pancabrahma
 Collective name for five aspects of S ˇIVA. Hindu.
 The five aspects are Aghora, Isana, Sadyojata,
 Tatpurusa and Vamadeva. Also Isanadayas.
 Pancamukha-Patradeva
 God. Buddhist. A “bowl-god.” Attributes: an alms
 bowl in each of sixteen hands. Five-headed.
 Pancanana
 Demonic deity. Hindu (Puranic). Regarded as a
 form of the god S ˇIVA possessing five faces, each
242 Pancaraksa
 Pao Kung
 face having three eyes. Depicted with the naked
 body of an ascetic, wearing a necklace of snakes.
 Shrines symbolize the god with a stone, its top
 painted red and usually placed beneath a tree.
 Pancanana is worshiped extensively in Hindu vil
lages throughout Bengal where women make
 invocations and anoint the stones, particularly
 when sickness strikes. There is a belief that chil
dren in the throes of epilepsy have been seized by
 the god.
 Pancaraksa (five-fold protection)
 Group of goddesses. Buddhist. Five tutelary or
 guardian deities who personify protective spells or
 magic formulae. They are thus known as “spell
 goddesses.”
 Pandara
 Goddess. Buddhist. The SAKTI of AMITABHA and
 a female BODHISATTVA or buddha-designate. She
 originates from the Tantric syllable PAM. Color:
 rose. Attributes: blue lotus, cup, knife and prayer
 wheel.
 Paneu
 A collective term for seven gods. Kafir [Afghan
istan]. The divine brothers are cast as the hunters
 and henchmen of the supreme goddess DISANI.
 Each is equipped with a golden bow and quiver.
 They are generally portrayed as merciless and
 malignant forces. Also Paradik, Purron.
 Pansahi Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu. A SAKTI and one of
 seven SAPTAMATARAS (mothers) who in later Hin
duism became regarded as of evil intent, inflicting
 sickness on children under the age of seven. Par
ticularly known from Bengal.
 God of magistrates. Chinese. Lived as a mortal
 from AD 999-1062 during the Sung Dynasty.
 Depicted with a dark face, implying impartiality,
 and wearing yellow and purple robes. Attributes
 include a wooden scepter. He is attended by two
 minor deities, one holding his seal of office and
 the other holding the rod of punishment.
 Papas
 Local god. Phrygian [northwestern Turkey].
 According to tradition, he inseminated a rock and
 so engendered the hermaphrodite being Agdistis.
 Later became syncretized with ZEUS.
 Papatuanuku
 Chthonic mother goddess. Polynesian (including
 Maori). According to tradition she evolved 
spontaneously in the cosmic night personified by
 TE PO and became the apotheosis of papa, the
 earth. In other traditions she was engendered,
 with the sky god RANGINUI, by a primordial
 androgynous being, ATEA. Paptuanuku and Rang
inui are regarded as the primal parents of the pan
theon who, through a prolonged period of
 intercourse, produced at least ten major deities as
 their children. In Maori culture Papatuanuku, like
 all deities, is represented only by inconspicuous,
 slightly worked stones or pieces of wood and not
 by the large totems, which are depictions of
 ancestors.
 Pap-nigin-gara (lord of the boundary stone)
 God of war. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Syncretized with NINURTA.
 Papsukkal
 Messenger god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Identified in late Akkadian texts and
Parna-Savari 243
 known chiefly from Hellenistic Babylonian times.
 His consort is AMASAGNUL and he acts as both
 messenger and gatekeeper for the rest of the pan
theon. A sanctuary, the E-akkil, is identified from
 the Mesopotamian site of Mkisˇ. He becomes syn
cretized with NINSˇUBUR.
 Paramasva (great horse)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). Considered to be a
 form of HAYAGRIVA depicted with four legs and
 trampling the four major Hindu deities under
foot. Color: red. Attributes: arrow, bow, head of
 a horse, great lotus, lotus, staff and sword. Three
eyed.
 Paramita
 Descriptive name of a philosophical deity. 
Buddhist. Applied to one of the group of 
twelve whose spiritual father is RATNASAMBHAVA.
 Common attributes: banner with a pearl, and 
a lotus.
 Parasurama (Rama-with-the-ax)
 Incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The sixth avatara of Visˇnu (see also
 RAMA) in which form he saved the world from an
 army of tyrannical warriors. According to legend,
 Rama, the son of a wise man, became a skilled
 bowman and in gratitude he went to the
 Himalaya where he stayed, devoting himself to
 S
 ˇIVA. His consort is DHARANI. Though without
 his bow, Rama acted as a champion of the gods in
 a war against the demons and was rewarded with
 an ax. In another legend, Visˇnu took the form of
 Parasurama to rid the world of despotic rulers.
 This avatara appears in human form, with 
two arms and with an ax in the right hand. Other
 attributes: arrow, bow, knife, skin and sword. Also
 Parasuramavatara.
 Parcae
 Goddesses of fate. Greco-Roman. Originally a
 pair of birth goddesses, DECIMA and NONA, later
 joined by a goddess of death, MORTA.
 Parendi
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Hindu (Vedic).
 Associated with the acquisition of wealth.
 Pariacaca
 Weather god. Pre-Inca central Andean [South
 America]. The deity responsible for rain and
 thunder, personified by the falcon.
 Pariskaravasita (control of purification)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spiritual
 regeneration. Color: yellow. Attribute: jeweled
 staff.
 Parjanya (rain giver)
 God of rain. Hindu (Vedic). Became replaced
 by, or syncretized with, INDRA in later Hin
duism, but in the Vedas he is seen as a god of 
gentle, fructifying rain. May be regarded as an
 ADITYA.
 Parna-Savari (dressed in leaves)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA and BODHISATTVA or buddha-designate.
 Also one of a group of DHARANIS (deifications of 
literature). She is particularly recognized in the
 northwest of India. Her vehicle is GANESA
 surmounting obstacles. Color: yellow or green.
 Attributes: arrow, ax, bow, flower, noose, peacock
 feather, skin and staff. She is depicted as having
 three eyes and three heads.
244 Parsva
 Parsva
 Jain. The 23rd tirthankava and therefore the
 penultimate in the line of mythical salvation
 teachers. Possibly a historic person who lived in
 the 8th century BC, he was succeeded by Maha
viva or Vardhamana, who was definitely a person
 in history. Parsva has been credited as the myth
ical founder of Jainism. 
Partula
 Minor goddess of birth. Roman. Concerned with
 parturition.
 PARVATI (daughter of the mountain)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India].
 Mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400 until
 present times.
 SYNONYMS Sakti; Ahladini-Sadini; SATI; UMA.
 Many epithets including Amba (mother); Aja
 (she goat); GAURI (corn goddess aspect);
 BHUTAMATA (mother of goblins).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, chiefly in bronze
 but also in stone; reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana epic and various
 Puranic texts.
 Parvati may have originated from the mountain
 tribes in the Himalaya. As a goddess of fertility she
 is the youngest of the benign aspects of the goddess
 Sakti. She also appears as a reincarnation of Sati.
 She is the daughter of HIMAVAN (the Himalaya)
 and MENA, a sister of VIS ˇNU and the younger sis
ter of GANGA. She becomes the consort of the god
 S
 ˇIVA and, as such, personifies the extreme example
 of the devoted and steadfast Hindu wife. Her sons
 include GANESA and SKANDA.
 She is presented to S ˇiva, the ascetic, as a beau
tiful dancing girl. On becoming aware of his lack
 of interest, she pursues a life of self-denial until he
 finally appears to her as an old Brahman and takes
 her as his consort.
 Parvati is depicted with two arms when accom
panying S ˇiva, but four when standing alone; she
 may be elephantheaded or carrying Ganesa as a
 baby, and appears in many varieties. Attributes:
 conch, crown, mirror, ornamented head-band,
 rosary and occasionally a lotus.
 Pasupati (lord of animals)
 God of animals. Hindu [India]. His consort is
 Svaha and his son is SANMUKHA. He is thought to
 have been derived from an earlier pre-Indo Aryan
 deity worshiped by the Indus Valley civilization as
 a horned god with three faces, sitting surrounded
 by animals. In Hindu culture regarded as an
 aspect of S ˇIVA and depicted standing upon a
 corpse.
 Patadharini (bearing a cloth)
 Goddess of passage. Buddhist. She watches over
 curtains and doorways. Color: blue. Attribute: a
 curtain.
 Pattinidevi (queen of goddesses)
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Singhalese) [Sri Lanka].
 A deification of Kannaki, the consort of Kovolan
 who, according to ancient Tamil tradition, jour
neyed to the town of Madurai to sell a gold anklet.
 Through trickery she was convicted of theft and
 executed, but was canonized. According to
 another tradition, she was born from a mango
 pierced by a sacred arrow. In southern India and
 Sri Lanka a goddess of chastity and fidelity in
 marriage. Also a guardian against diseases, includ
ing measles and smallpox. She is associated with
 fire-walking rituals. Attributes: cobra-hood
 behind the head, and a lotus.
Pavana (purifier)
 Penates 245
 God of the winds. Hindu. His consort is Anjana.
 Also VAYU.
 Pax
 Spirit of peace. Roman. Became well-known as
 Pax Romana and Pax Augusta from the second
 century BC and was accorded a shrine on 
the Field of Mars. Depicted as a young woman
 bearing a cornucopia, an olive branch and a
 sheaf of corn.
 Peitho
 Goddess of persuasion. Greek. A minor atten
dant of the goddess APHRODITE.
 Peju’lpe
 Guardian spirits. Yukaghir [southeastern Siberia].
 Attendant deities who look after the well-being of
 animals in their care. They are benevolent toward
 the hunter so long as he observes certain regula
tions and kills only when necessary.
 Pekko
 God of cereal crops. Pre-Christian Finnish and
 Baltic regions. In Finland he is PELLON PEKKO
 and specifically a god of barley used in brewing
 beer. In Estonia he is a corn god whose image,
 made of wax, was kept in the corn chest. He was
 originally honored on a day taken over by a
 Christian festival for St. Peter.
 Pele
 Volcano goddess. Polynesian [Hawaii]. Accord
ing to tradition she arrived in Hawaii in a canoe,
 having sailed from Tahiti. She may derive
 locally from the more familiar Polynesian moon
 goddess, HINA, since one of her alternative
 names is Hina-Ai-Malama (Hina who devours
 the moon).
 Pellon Pekko
 Vegetation god. Pre-Christian Finnish. The deity
 responsible for the germination and harvesting
 of barley used to make beer. The first brewing is
 dedicated to Pellon Pekko. He may have largely
 become syncretized with St. Peter under Christ
ian influence. 
See also PEKKO.
 Pemba (great thing)
 Creator god. Bambara and Mande [Mali, West
 Africa]. He was created out of the empty or Fu
 and his first task was to form the egg of the
 world. He descended to earth as an acacia seed
 (Acacia albida) which first grew to a mighty tree
 and then died. From the wood Pemba generated
 human souls and a female being whom he
 impregnated to engender all human and animal
 life. His brother is the god FARO, creator of the
 river Niger.
 Pen Annwen
 Underworld god. Celtic (Welsh). Virtually syn
onymous with PWYLL and PRYDERI.
 Penates
 Hearth deities. Roman. These gods are a pecu
liarly Roman innovation, unknown to the Greeks.
 The penates, chosen individually by the head of
 the household, oversaw the domestic affairs of
 most Roman families. They were considered suf
ficiently important that, if a move was anticipated,
 they were taken to and established in the new res
idence a priori. They are represented in the form
246 Perende
 of small statues made of anything from clay to
 gold according to the wealth of the owner, and
 were provided with regular offerings of scraps of
 food.
 Perende
 Storm god. Pre-Christian Albanian. In the
 ancient Illyrian culture his presence was
 announced by thunder and lightning. The name
 subsequently became adopted to identify God in
 the Christian sense.
 Perkons
 God of thunder. Pre-Christian Latvian. Depicted
 armed with iron weapons, he is also a fertility god
 who brings beneficial rain. Also Perkunas
 (Lithuanian).
 Perkunas See PERKONS. 
Perse
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Greek. The con
sort of the sun god Helios and the mother of
 Kirke and Pasiphae, she personifies the under
world aspects of the moon. Also Neaira.
 PERSEPHONE
 ORIGIN Greek. Chthonic goddess of death.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1200 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS KORE; Persephassa; Pherrephatta
 (Attic); PROSERPINA (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Eleusis; temple to Demeter
 and Persephone in Syracuse.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Hymn to Demeter, Iliad
 (Homer); Theogony (Hesiod).
 The daughter of ZEUS and the corn goddess
 DEMETER, Persephone’s persona is intricately
 entwined with that of her mother; the two may
 be seen as aspects of each other, though Perse
phone’s name suggests an earlier, independent
 identity as a major goddess in prehistory. Perse
phone is perceived as Kore, the immature daugh
ter, or aspect, of the corn mother, but also
 specifically as mistress of the dead and ill-fated
 consort of the underworld god HADES-Aidoneus
 or Aides.
 According to tradition Persephone leaves her
 mother’s house to pick flowers with a group of
 girls, the OKEANIDES. As she bends to collect a
 particularly beautiful bloom, the earth suddenly
 opens and the god of the underworld rides out in
 a chariot drawn by black horses to seize her and
 abduct her to Hades, where she is to reign as his
 queen. The flower meadow is traditionally
 believed to lie on the island of Sicily close to the
 Lago di Pergus at Enna, though other sites,
 including one near Syracuse, contest the claim.
 Subsequently, Demeter wanders the earth in
 fruitless search for her child. Eventually she
 locates Persephone and HERMES is allowed to
 bring her back to the upper world but, because
 Persephone has tasted the pomegranate of death,
 she may return only for two thirds of each year.
 When Persephone returns to her mother as Kore,
 the girl, nature flourishes, but when she descends
 to Hades as his queen, Demeter is distraught and
 angry and the living world shrivels and dies. 
According to one legendary source, Zeus in the
 form of a snake raped Persephone and sired
 DIONYSOS, though Dionysos’s mother is more
 generally regarded as SEMELE.
 Perun (striker)
 God of thunder. Pre-Christian Slavonic (Balkan).
 His attribute is a club and his sacred animal is the
 bull. He is known to have been worshiped at Kiev.
Peruwa
 Pidray 247
 Horse god. Hittite. Known only from inscrip
tions. Also Pirwa.
 Phanebal (face of Baal)
 Minor attendant god. Western Semitic. A youthful
 warrior deity with right hand raised who appears on
 coins struck at Ascalon from the time of Augustus.
 Phanes
 Primordial sun god. Greek. The first god to emerge
 from the cosmic egg engendered by KRONOS, he
 personifies light emerging from chaos. According
 to one tradition, his daughter is NYX, the night.
 Phorkys
 Minor sea god. Greek. According to Hesiod, he is
 the son of PONTOS and GAIA. The consort of a
 sea-serpent, Keto, and the father of the Gorgons
 and Graii. Also Phorkos.
 Phosphoros
 God of the morning star. Greek. His mother is
 EOS, the dawn, and he is depicted as a naked
 youth running ahead of her, carrying a torch. In
 Roman culture he becomes Lucifer.
 Phul Mata
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism became one of the
 SAPTAMATARAS regarded as of evil intent, inflict
ing sickness on children under seven years old.
 Particularly known from Bengal.
 Phyi-Sgrub (the external one)
 God. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. A form of the
 god YAMA who rides a buffalo or a bull. Color:
 blue, yellow or white. Attributes: noose, prayer
 wheel and staff surmounted by a skeleton.
 Picullus
 Chthonic underworld god. Romano-Celtic
 (Prussian). He becomes syncretized with the devil
 in Christian times.
 Picvu’cin
 God of hunters. Chukchee [Eastern Siberia]. A
 diminutive figure who rides on a sled drawn by
 mice. He is the guardian of reindeer and other
 animals and is invoked by sacrifice, usually of
 camp dogs.
 Pidari (snake-catcher)
 One of the consorts of S ˇIVA. Hindu (Puranic and
 later). A benevolent NAVASAKTI. The cult of
 Pidari probably evolved in the sixth and seventh
 centuries AD and is generally restricted to south
ern India. She is considered an aspect of the god
dess KALI and is invoked in many villages to
 ward off evil and demons. She has most of the
 attributes of Kali and may also have snakes
 around her breasts, but may additionally be 
represented by a stone. Her cult moved at one
 time and reached a climax in eastern India
 between the eighth and twelfth centuries.
 Attributes: cup, fire, noose and trident. Also
 Pitali; Kala-Pidari.
 Pidray
 Minor fertility goddess. Canaanite and Phoeni
cian. Mentioned in epic creation texts and treaties
 at Ugarit (Ras S ˇamra) as the first daughter of
 BAAL. She is the consort of BAAL SAPON, the
 mother of Tly and may be the goddess Peraia
 described by the Greek writer Philo.
248 Pietas
 Pitao Cozobi
 Pietas
 Minor god. Roman. A sanctuary dedicated to him
 circa 191 BC is still in existence in Rome. He
 became Pietas Augusta and is associated with fam
ily solidarity and patriotism.
 Pilumnus (staker)
 Minor guardian god. Roman. Concerned with
 the protection of an infant at birth. A ceremony
 to honor the deity involved driving a stake into
 the ground.
 Pinikirz
 Mother goddess. Elamite [Iran]. Known only
 from inscriptions.
 PISTIS (faith)
 ORIGIN Gnostic Christian. Primordial female force.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP probably circa 200
 BC to circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Pistis Sophia.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT undefined cells in areas of
 early Christian influence.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Nag Hammadi codices.
 The exact origin of Pistis is never made clear and
 the Nag Hammadi narratives are in places con
fused and contradictory. It is, however, an unmis
takably female principle typical of most religions
 in their concept of the origin of the world. Pistis
 appears to be a benign female element among the
 primordial immortals who ruled before even the
 cosmos was created. She is closely allied with
 SOPHIA (wisdom). Pistis appears to have been
 formed out of infinity before the “shadow” which
 was to evolve into chaos, and from which the cos
mos would take shape, defined itself within lim
itless light.
 See also SOPHIA and YALDABAOTH.
 Maize god. Zapotec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Worshiped by the Monte Alban cul
ture of Zapotec-speaking peoples in the Valley of
 Oaxaca. Sculptures were often adorned with casts
 of maize ears.
 Piyusaharana
 Obscure physician god. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). Identified in the texts as the eighteenth
 of the thirty-nine minor incarnations of the god
 VISˇNU; said to be a “carrier of nectar.”
 Pluto
 God of the underworld. Roman. Derived from
 the Greek model of HADES, he abducted the
 daughter of CERES, PROSERPINA, to reign as his
 queen. The three-headed dog Cerberus was 
set to guard the gate of Hades and through 
the kingdom flowed the two rivers of death, the
 Cocytus and the Acheron which could be crossed
 only by the ferryman Charon. According to
 Roman tradition, the entrance to the underworld
 was at Avernus in Rome where the Christian
 church of St. Maria del Inferno was built. 
See also HADES.
 Plutos
 Minor god of riches. Greek. A son of DEMETER
 who was abandoned in childhood and reared by
 the goddess of peace, EIRENE, who is sometimes
 depicted holding him in her lap. Plutos was
 blinded by ZEUS because of his discrimination in
 favor of the righteous.
 Poeninus
 Mountain god. Romano-Celtic (Continental Euro
pean). Known locally from the alpine regions and
 generally thought to be assimilated with JUPITER.
Poleramma
 POSEIDON 249
 Plague goddess. Telegu [India]. Associated with
 smallpox and offered blood sacrifices.
 Pollux
 Horse god. Roman. 
See also POLYDEUKES.
 Poluknalai
 Goddess of animals. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Locally
 revered, with the goddess DISANI, among Askun
 villages in the southwest of Kafiristan.
 Polydeukes
 Horse god. Greek. One of the Dioskouroi twins;
 the other is Kastor. According to tradition, they
 are together associated with a Spartan cult
 whence they originated. The pair probably derive
 from the Indo-European model of the ASVINS in
 Vedic mythology. Kastor is mortal while Poly
deukes is immortal. Thus, during battle, Kastor is
 mortally wounded but, even in death, the two
 brothers remain inseparable. They rescue indi
viduals from distress and danger, particularly at
 sea, and are thought to be embodied in the elec
trical discharges known as St. Elmo’s Fire. Also
 Castor and POLLUX (Roman).
 Pomona
 Goddess of orchards and gardens. Roman. Con
sort of VERTUMNUS generally represented by gar
den implements and offered fruits and flowers.
 PON (something)
 ORIGIN Yukaghir [central Siberia]. Supreme cre
ator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from prehistoric
 times until circa AD 1900.
 SYNONYMS Pon-yu’lec (something got dark);
 Pon-o’moc (something has become good);
 Pon-ti’boi (something makes rain); Cu’kun.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no fixed sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES none known.
 LITERARY SOURCES Jochelson Memoirs of the
 American Natural History Society Vol. 10 (1905).
 Pon is a vague and indefinite creator spirit who con
trols all visible phenomena of nature. As far as can
 be ascertained, no specific cult was ever addressed to
 this deity; he seems to be a remote figure, largely out
 of touch with everyday life. No invocations or
 prayers are addressed to Pon, nor are sacrifices.
 Pontos
 God of the sea. Greek. His mother and consort is
 GAIA and he is the father of the sea gods NEREUS
 and PHORKYS.
 Pore
 Creator god. Guyanan Indian [South America].
 Engendered the earth and all living things. Also
 Pura.
 Portunus
 God of passage. Roman. The deity responsible
 for guarding the entrance of the city and the
 house alike. He was celebrated in the Portunalia
 festival, held annually on August 17, when keys
 were thrown into a fire to bless them. He is also
 the guardian of the Tiber estuary, the main access
 by sea to the city of Rome.
 POSEIDON
 ORIGIN Greek. God of the sea and mariners.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP from circa 1600 BC
 through Minoan Crete (art evidence only) until
250 Posis Das
 circa AD 400. SYNONYMS Poseidaon (Myce
naean); Poteidan (Dorian).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Cape Sunium [southern
 Greece]; Pylos [Crete]; Mount Mykale
 [Turkey]; early sanctuary on the island of
 Kalauria; otherwise widespread through areas
 of Greco-Roman influence, particularly at
 Berytus [Syria].
 ART REFERENCES sculpture, plaques, coins, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad (Homer); Theogony
 (Hesiod), etc.
 Poseidon is perceived as a sea god, one of the
 three sons of KRONOS and RHEA. His brothers are
 ZEUS and HADES. He is the father of Theseus
 who became king of Athens, and is also linked
 with the ancestral king of the city, Erechtheus,
 whom he supposedly rammed into the ground.
 Among his other sons are Neleus, king of Pylos,
 and Pelias of Iolkos in Thessaly. He is also, by tra
dition, the father of the ancestors of the Aeolian
 and Boeotian races.
 The horse is sacred to him and he is said to
 have inseminated the ground from which was
 conceived the first horse. Poseidon’s chief consort
 is AMPHITRITE, but other consorts emphasize the
 affinity with horses. They include the infamous
 Gorgon, Medusa, from whose dead body came
 the winged horse Pegasus and the warrior
 Chrysaor. A liaison with the goddess ERINYS pro
duced another fabulous winged horse, Areon. In
 a parallel legend Areon’s mother is DEMETER
 while in the guise of a mare.
 Poseidon appears never to have been envisaged
 in youthful form, but always as an elderly, bearded
 deity who carries the emblem of a trident harpoon.
 According to tradition, Zeus took the sky, Posei
don the sea, and Hades the underworld, while the
 earth was shared between all three. Poseidon was
 a popular oracular deity, suggested in one legend to
 be the first keeper of Delphi. Another oracle at
 Cape Tainaron is dedicated to Poseidon. 
There exist ruins of a striking Poseidon sanc
tuary, constructed of white marble, on the cliffs of
 Cape Sunium at the extreme southern tip of
 Greece, past which all ships sail when making for
 Athens. Regattas were held there in honor of the
 god and he was particularly invoked during the
 tuna-hunting season which was conducted using
 traditional trident harpoons. 
On Argos horses were sacrificed to Poseidon,
 drowned in a whirlpool, while on Pylos and else
where he received the offering of slaughtered
 bulls.
 Posis Das
 Sky god. Greek. In pre-Hellenic times the con
sort of the earth mother GAIA. One of the pri
mordial partnership identified in Theogony
 (Hesiod). He later becomes syncretized with
 ZEUS.
 Pothos
 Primordial being. Phoenician (Hellenic). Accord
ing to the cosmogony, he is desire, and consorts
 with OMICHLE, darkness, to engender out of
 chaos the spiritual force Aer, and its living physi
cal manifestation Aura.
 Potina
 Minor goddess. Roman. Associated with the safe
 drinking ability of infants.
 Poxlom
 God of disease. Mayan (Tzeltal Indian, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Apparently perceived
 as a star in the sky or a ball of fire. He may also be
 depicted as a fertility god shelling maize or as a
 fisherman, doctor, musician or hunter. An image
 of the god was discovered in the Christian church
Prajnavardhani 251
 in Oxchuc, and the Indians were forced to revoke
 and spit on the icon before it was publicly burnt.
 Prabhakari (light-maker)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of sev
eral deified BHUMIS recognized as different spir
itual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: red. Attributes: sun disc on a great lotus
 and staff.
 Prabhasa (shining dawn)
 Attendant god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of
 a group of VASU deities answering to the god
 INDRA. Attributes: cup, hook, Sakti and staff.
 Pracanda (furious)
 Distinct form of the goddess DURGA. Hindu
 (Epic and Puranic). One of a group of NAVADUR
GAS or “nine durgas.”
 Pradhana (most important)
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of a group of nine NAVASAKTIS who, in southern
 India, rank higher than the SAPTAMATARAS.
 Pradipatara
 Minor goddess of light. Buddhist (Mahayana).
 Pradyumna
 God of love. Early Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. The son of KRSNA and RUKMINI, and the
 elder brother of SAMA. Equating with
 KAMADEVA, or Kama returned to life after being
 killed by S ˇIVA. In later Hinduism regarded as an
 avatara of VISˇNU with consorts including
 MAYADEVI and Kakudmati.
 Prajapati (lord of creatures)
 Primordial being. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and
 Puranic). In the Vedic legends he is described var
iously as the creator of the world and the creator
 of heaven and earth. He is an androgynous being
 who impregnated himself by fusing elements of
 mind and speech. In later epics he is the guardian
 deity of the sexual organ. Prajapati is also a name
 of the god BRAHMA in later Hinduism.
 Prajna (wisdom)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Regarded as the
 SAKTI of a number of Mahayana gods, or specifi
cally of ADIBUDDHA.
 Prajnantaka
 God. Buddhist. One of the dikpalas, guardians of
 the southern direction. Color: white. Attributes:
 jewel, lotus, sword, trident and white staff.
 Prajnaparamita
 Goddess. Buddhist. The personification of the reli
gious text Prajnaparamita and the SAKTI of VAJRAD
HARA. An emanation of the deity AKSOBHYA. Also
 a philosophical deity, the spiritual offspring of RAT
NASAMBHAVA. The embodiment of transcendental
 intuition. She stands upon a lotus. Color: white,
 reddish white or yellow. Attributes: blue lotus,
 book, cup, knife, jeweled staff and red lotus.
 Prajnapti (teaching)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Prajnavardhani (growth of wisdom)
 Deification of literature. Buddhist. One of a
 group of DHARANIS. Color: white. Attributes:
 staff and sword on blue lotus.
252 Prakde
 Prasuti
 Prakde (parade)
 Local deity. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Known from
 Ashkun villages in southwestern Kafiristan and
 perhaps one of the seven divine PANAO or Paradik
 brothers.
 Pramudita (delighted)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One 
of several deified BHUMIS recognized as 
different spiritual spheres through which a 
disciple passes. Color: red. Attributes: jewel and
 staff.
 Pranasakti
 Goddess. Hindu. A terrifying deity ruling the
 “centers of physical life.” She stands upon a lotus.
 Attribute: a cup filled with blood.
 Pranidhanaparamita
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: blue. Attributes: jewel
 and sword on blue lotus.
 Pranidhanavasita (control of abstract 
contemplation)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spiritual
 regeneration. Color: yellow. Attributes: blue lotus
 and jeweled staff.
 Prasannatara (the gracious Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Regarded
 as a form of RATNASAMBHAVA who tramples on
 Hindu gods including INDRA, BRAHMA, RUDRA
 and Upendra. Color: yellow. Carries a large vari
ety of attributes. Three-eyed.
 Goddess. Hindu. The daughter of Svayambhuva
 MANUand one of the consorts of DAKSA.
 Pratibhanakuta (excellent intelligence)
 God. Buddhist. A BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate. Color: yellow or red. Attribute: sword
 on lotus.
 Pratibhanapratisamvit
 Goddess of context analysis. Buddhist (Vajrayana).
 One of a group of four. Color: green. Attributes:
 three-pronged staff and bell.
 Pratisamvit (analytical science)
 Generic name for four goddesses. Buddhist
 (Vajrayana). The personifications of logical analysis.
 Pratyangira (whose speech is directed westward)
 Goddess of terrifying aspect. Hindu. She rides
 upon a lion. Attributes: cup, drum, flaming hair,
 snake noose and trident.
 Pratyusa (scorching)
 Attendant god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of
 a group of VASU deities answering to the god
 INDRA. Attributes: hook, knife, Sakti and sword.
 Prende
 Goddess of love. Pre-Christian Albanian. The
 consort of the thunder god Perendi who became
 absorbed into Christianity as a saint.
 Priapos
 Fertility god. Greco-Roman and Phrygian. The
 son of DIONYSOS and APHRODITE, he was also a
Proserpina 253
 guardian of mariners. Priapos was not regarded
 as a significant deity in Greece until very late
 times—during the Macedonian period, circa
 fourth to second century BC—and was only
 locally popular during the Roman Empire
 period. He is particularly known from Phrygia
 and is depicted as a satyr-like creature with 
pronounced genitals.
 Priapus
 God of the shade. Roman. A rural deity whose
 worship appears to have been restricted to the
 shores of the Hellespont and clearly derives from
 the god PRIAPOS.
 Prithivi See PRTHIVI.
 Priti (pleasure)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A daughter
 of DAKSA and consort of the god of love
 KAMADEVA. One of twelve SAKTIS associated with
 the god VISˇNU in his various incarnations.
 Priyadarsana (pleasant to the eye)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 PROMETHEUS (forethought)
 ORIGIN Greek. Heroic god and creator of man.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC and
 probably earlier until Christianization circa
 AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT predominantly Athens. 
ART REFERENCES sculptures, relief carvings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Theogony (Hesiod);
 Aeschylus drama.
 Prometheus, one of four sons of the Titan
 IAPETOS and his consort Klymene, is probably
 best known as a heroic opponent of ZEUS. He
 stole fire from the latter and gave it to mankind
 as the boon which separates the human race
 from all other living creatures. Legend accords
 to Prometheus, and his brother EPIMETHIUS
 (afterthought), the creation of mankind and the
 role of its protector, in response to which Zeus
 created Pandora and her box of problems, set
 loose to afflict the human race. Zeus also
 imprisoned Prometheus by fastening him to a
 great rock in the Caucasus mountains with
 adamantine chains and sending an eagle to con
sume his liver. He was rescued by HERAKLES,
 who killed the eagle and liberated the god from
 his torment.
 Promitor
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Responsible
 for the growth and harvesting of crops.
 Pronoia (forethought)
 Primordial being. Gnostic Christian. The 
feminine aspect of one of the androgynous 
principles born to YALDABAOTH, the prime par
ent, and ruling the seven heavens of chaos in 
Gnostic cosmogony. Also described in other
 Gnostic tracts as Protennoia, the voice of the
 thought, and alternatively the voice of LOGOS
 (logic), who descends to earth in human 
form and plays a part in the primordial salvation 
of the world.
 Proserpina
 Goddess of death. Roman but derived from 
a Greek model. Abducted by the underworld
 god PLUTO to reign as his queen (see PERSE
PHONE).
254 Proteus
 Proteus
 Minor sea god. Greek. Depicted as an old man
 who attends Triton and whose principal concern
 is the creatures of the oceans. He also has oracu
lar powers. The poet Cowper wrote:
 “In ages past old Proteus, with his droves 
Of sea calves sought the mountains and the
 groves.”
 Also known as GLAUKOS, NEREUS and
 PHORKYS.
 Providentia
 Goddess of forethought. Roman. Recognized
 from the reign of Tiberias in second century BC.
 Proxumae
 Generic title of a group of goddesses. Romano
Celtic. Personal guardian deities.
 Prsni
 Primordial earth goddess. Hindu (Vedic). The so
called “dappled cow” of the Rg Veda. She is also
 perceived as the brightly colored soma stalk and is
 linked with a male counterpart, also Prsni, the
 dappled bull of the sun.
 PRTHIVI (earth mother)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic) [India]. Mother god
dess of earth.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1500 BC and
 probably earlier through to present day.
 SYNONYMS Bhudevi. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific. 
ART REFERENCES sculptures in bronze and other
 metals; stone reliefs, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda and other texts
 including the Atharva-veda.
 In Vedic literature Prthivi is the female aspect of
 the creator god DYAUS PITAR. The two formed
 the once inseparable primordial cosmos until sep
arated by the god VARUNA. According to one
 illogical legend of Prthivi’s genealogy, she was the
 daughter of Prithu who had granted the blessing
 of life on earth and who, in her turn, had emerged
 from the arm of the corpse of King Vena.
 Prthivi is a chthonic or earth goddess with
 whom the sky god Dyaus couples when he fertil
izes her with rain. She is said to kiss the center of
 the world and she symbolizes the eternal patience
 and resilience of the earth, permitting herself to
 be abused without rancor. She is also a vegetation
 goddess, the source of all plant life. In some leg
ends Prthivi is perceived as the consort of the rain
 god INDRA, who protects her, and of lesser-known
 creation deities including PARJANYA, Prajapait and
 Visvakarma. VISˇNU strides over her body. As the
 inseparable partner of Dyaus she is rarely
 addressed alone, though in the Atharva-veda
 Dyaus is not mentioned. Usually the pair are
 referred to as Dyavaprthivi. Though the goddess
 was present in early Indian culture, she persists
 into late Hinduism and may be associated with
 Visˇnu as one of the personifications of his Sakti.
 Many Hindus worship Prthivi at dawn and
 before ploughing and sowing. In the Punjab, the
 first milk from a cow is offered to the goddess by
 allowing it to soak into the earth. With similar
 sentiment a dying man may be laid on the earth
 to be received by Prthivi.
 Prthu (broad)
 Creator god. Hindu (Vedic). The head of the
 solar pantheon who introduced agriculture to the
 human race and who, in later Hinduism, is iden
tified as an avatara of VISˇNU.
 Pryderi 
Chthonic god. Celtic (Welsh). The son of PWYLL
 and RHIANNON. According to tradition, he was
Pu’gu 255
 abducted as an infant from his cradle by a huge
 talon or claw, with the implication that the
 abduction was instigated by an adversary from
 the underworld, perhaps the family of Gwawl, a
 rejected suitor of Rhiannon. Pryderi was found
 in a stable and rescued by Teirnyon, who
 brought the child up as his son. Eventually the
 true parents of Pryderi were identified and he
 was returned to his family. His consort is Cigfa
 and he succeeded Pwyll to the title ‘Lord of
 Dyfed.’ 
PTAH
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Creator god and god of
 craftsmen.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP circa 3000 BC, pos
sibly earlier, until the end of Egyptian history
 circa AD 400. SYNONYMS Ptah-Nun; Ptah
Naunet; Khery-bakef.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly at Memphis, but with
 sanctuaries throughout the Nile valley.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, relief carvings, wall
 paintings, papyrus illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts, etc.; the
 Shabaka Stone.
 Ptah is the patron deity of Memphis in Lower
 Egypt at the southerly approach to the Nile
 delta. With ATUM, the sun god of Heliopolis,
 he is the main rival claimant to seniority as a
 creator god in the Egyptian pantheon. His con
sort is the lion-goddess SAKHMET and, by impli
cation only, his son is NEFERTUM, the god of the
 primeval lotus flower. Ptah is depicted in human
 form wearing a closely fitting robe with only his
 arms free. His most distinctive features are the
 invariable skull-cap exposing only his face and
 ears, and the was or rod of dominion which he
 holds, consisting of a staff surmounted by the
 ankh symbol of life. He is otherwise symbolized
 by his sacred animal, the bull.
 According to the genealogy laid down by the
 Memphis priests, Ptah upstaged Atum as the
 “father of the gods.” He generated not only
 Atum but the whole Heliopolis pantheon (see
 ENNEAD) by thinking and speaking the cosmos
 into existence. All life and matter was gener
ated by the heart and the tongue of Ptah. In
 this cosmogony, NUN represents the amorphous
 primeval matter out of which Ptah generated
 himself as a bisexual entity, the maleness of
 which is Ptah-Nun and the femaleness Ptah
Naunet. Ptah is occasionally known by the title
 Khery-bakef, meaning “he who is under his
 tree,” suggesting that he was syncretized with a
 older local tree god at Memphis whose symbol
 is the moringa tree.
 In addition to his role as creator god, Ptah is
 also the patron deity of craftsmen and his pres
ence is often denoted in art by dwarfish crafts
men who work at various trades including
 jewelry. Ptah is envisaged as molding mankind
 out of base materials. In Greco-Roman times he
 became identified with the Greek god of
 smithies, HEPHAISTOS.
 Pu Ma
 Generic name for deities. Polynesian. The title
 given to any god of high rank.
 Pudicita 
Goddess of chastity. Roman. Depicted as a
 matronly lady, her cult fell from popularity as
 the Roman Empire veered increasingly toward
 decadence.
 Pu’gu
 Sun god. Yukaghir [eastern Siberia]. A spirit 
associated with justice and honorable living who
 punishes those who are evil or violent.
256 Pukkasi
 Purvaphalguni
 Pukkasi
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist
 (Vajrayana) and Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a 
group of gauri. Color: yellowish white or blue.
 Attribute: waterjar.
 Punarvasu
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Concerned
 with restoring lost or stolen property.
 Punitavati (purified)
 Local goddess. Hindu. Worshiped at Karaikkal
 near Ammaiyar. The deification of a Brahman
 businessman’s wife.
 Puranai (fullness)
 Mother goddess. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern
 India]. A NAVASAKTI and one of the consorts of
 Aiyanar.
 Purandhi
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Hindu (Vedic). Asso
ciated with the acquisition of wealth and some
times identified with Indra or other male deities.
 Purusa
 Primeval creator god. Hindu (Vedic). Described
 as the primordial being from whom the cosmos
 was formed, possibly the male component of the
 great mother, MATA. In later Hinduism regarded
 as an avatara of VISˇNU.
 Purvabhadrapada
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A moderately disposed NAKSATRA;
 daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Purvasadha
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A moderately disposed NAKSATRA;
 daughter of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Pusan (nourisher)
 Sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). The origi
nal Vedic list of six descendants of the goddess
 ADITI or ADITYAS, all of whom take the role of sun
 gods, was, in later times, enlarged to twelve,
 including Pusan. He is the charioteer of the sun
 and a guardian deity of journeys and pathways.
 Color: golden. Attributes: four lotuses.
 Pusi
 Fish god. Polynesian [Tikopia]. The apotheosis of
 the reef eel who probably accompanied the Ton
gan ancestors who migrated to Tikopia.
 Puspa (flower)
 Mother goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One
 of the group of ASTAMATARAS (mothers). Color:
 white. Attribute: a flower.
 Puspatara (flower-Tara)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color:
 white. Attribute: a forest garland.
 Pustí (growth)
 Fertility goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). In
 northern India she is the second consort of
 VISˇNU, but elsewhere may also be linked with
 SARASVATI and named as a consort of GANESA.
Pusya
 Pwyll 257
 Pwyll
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Puta
 Goddess of agriculture. Roman. Specifically
 responsible for the proper pruning of trees and
 shrubs. 
Chthonic god. Celtic (Welsh). The so-called
 “Lord of Dyfed” who, according to tradition,
 brought the pig to Wales having received it as a
 gift from ARAWN, the underworld god. He earned
 the reward by substituting for Arawn and fighting
 his enemy Hafgan, in payment for an unintended
 slight to Arawn, whom he met one day while out
 hunting. His consort is RHIANNON and his son is
 PRYDERI.
6
 Q
 Qaitakalnin
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The brother of Big Raven, QUIKINNA’QU, and of
 the mother spirit Ha’na (A’na).
 Qamai’ts
 Creator goddess. Bella Coola Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. Said to live in the upper heaven,
 Atsa’axl, from where she controls the earth. Accord
ing to tradition the mountains were once malevolent
 beings who made the world uninhabitable, until she
 conquered them and reduced them in size. She is
 never invoked or prayed to. Also Tsi Sisnaaxil (our
 woman); Ek Yakimtolsil (afraid of nothing).
 Qa’wadiliquala
 Supreme god. Dza’wadeenox Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. The guardian of the tribe but
 also a river deity responsible for bringing the
 salmon each year. Said to live in the river Gwae. His
 eldest son is TEWI’XILAK, the god of goat hunters.
 His attributes include a headband of red cedar bark.
 Qaynan
 God of smithies. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian.
 Known from inscriptions.
 Qeskina’qu (big light)
 Sky spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia]. One of
 the sons of QUIKINNA’QU, he is the apotheosis of
 daylight, a precious commodity during the long
 winter months.
 Qos
 Local weather god. Pre-Islamic northern Ara
bian. Apparently known as the deification of an
 outcrop of black basalt on the north side of the
 Wadi Hesa [near Kirbet Tannur]. Also a god of
 rainbows. Depicted seated on a throne flanked
 by bulls. Attributes include a branched thunder
bolt held in the left hand. A worshiper is seen
 offering him an eagle.
 Quades ˇ (the holy one)
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic, probably
 originating in Syria. She epitomizes female sex
uality and eroticism in the mold of ASTARTE. She
 was adopted by Egypt with the fertility gods
 MIN and RESˇEP and became partly associated
 with the goddess HATHOR. She is usually
 depicted nude standing on the back of a lion (see
 also INANA and NINHURSAG˜A) between Min to
 whom she offers a lotus blossom, and Resˇep for
 whom she bears snakes. Her cult followed the
 258
Quiahuitl 259
 typically ancient Near Eastern pattern of a
 sacred marriage carried out by her votary priest
esses and their priests or kings.
 Quat
 Creator god. Polynesian [Banks Islands]. As with
 many Polynesian deities, the god is depicted as
 being very inactive, sitting around all day doing
 nothing.
 Qudsu
 Personification of holiness. Western Semitic.
 Known from inscriptions at Tyre where a human
 figure stands naked on a lion, wearing a spiral
 headdress and holding lotus blossoms and ser
pents.
 QUETZALCOATL (the feathered serpent)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to 
AD 1500 and probably much earlier.
 SYNONYMS nine-wind; White Tezcatlipoca;
 TLAHUIZCALPANTECUHTLI.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Teotihuacan, Cholula,
 Xochicalco, Malinalco and others.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures, murals,
 codex illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 One of the four suns which are manifestations of
 the sun god TEZCATLIPOCA. He presided over the
 second of the five world ages represented by the
 sun EHECATL. The heroic creator god of the
 Aztecs, he is also identified as the god of the wind.
 According to one of many traditions he fashioned
 mankind from his own blood and provided food
 by turning himself into an ant so as to steal a grain
 of maize which the ants had hidden inside a
 mountain. A titanic struggle between Quetzal
coatl and the black Tezcatlipoca resulted in the
 creation and destruction of four worlds or suns
 prior to the current sun. Conversely, Quetzal
coatl and Tezcatlipoca together bore the respon
sibility for restoring the shattered universe and
 initiating the fifth sun, Ollin. They are said to
 have passed through the body of the earth mon
ster TLALTECUHTLI and split it in two to form
 heaven and earth. 
Later Quetzalcoatl descended to the under
world Mictlan to obtain from its rulers the bones
 and ashes of generations of mankind to create the
 humanity of the fifth sun. He is said to have
 dropped the bones and broken them, thus
 accounting for the differing statures of men.
 First depicted as a feathered serpent, he was
 known to the Nahua Indians as Quetzalcoatl who
 also revered him for his gift of science and arts.
 Worshiped at Teotihuacan from circa AD 750 or
 earlier. Temples of Quetzalcoatl include a six
tiered step-pyramid at Teotihuacan, and the huge
 manmade pyramid of Cholula on the Puebla
 plain, the largest ancient structure in the New
 World. The bearded Spanish conquistador
 Cortez was believed by the emperor Motecuh
zoma to be Quetzalcoatl.
 Represented iconographically as a composite
 feathered hybrid, his aspect or avatara Tlahuiz
calpantecuhtli was perceived as the Morning Star.
 NOTE: Topiltzin Quetzalcoatl was also a his
torical figure born circa AD 935.
 Quiahuitl
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The sun deity representing the third of
 the five world ages each of which lasted for 2,028
 heavenly years, each heavenly year being fifty
two terrestrial years. Assigned to the element fire
 and presided over by the rain god TLALOC.
 According to tradition, the age ended in a cata
clysmic destruction caused by a great fiery rain.
260 QUIKINN.A’QU
 The human population perished and in doing so
 were transformed into dogs, turkeys and butter
flies. Illustrated by the “Stone of the Four Suns”
 [Yale Peabody Museum]. Also Quiauhtonatiuh;
 Tletonatiuh.
 QUIKINN.A’QU (big raven)
 ORIGIN Koryak [Kamchatka peninsula, south
eastern Siberia]. Founder of the world.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from early
 times until circa AD 1900.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no fixed sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES none specific, though wooden
 carvings may relate.
 LITERARY SOURCES Jochelson Memoirs of the
 American Natural History Society Vol. 10
 (1905).
 A spirit of a primitive culture still heavily influ
enced by animism. Quikinn.a’qu is not only a
 deity but also the first man and a powerful
 shaman. Everything had existed before, but he
 was responsible for revealing that which hitherto
 had been concealed. He is married to MITI and
 said to have twelve children, the most significant
 of whom are EME’MQUT and Yina-a-naut (see also
 AESIR) who are in constant conflict with the evil
 spirits or Kalau. 
Quikinn.a’qu is the subject of many heroic
 adventures in which he undertakes to make safe
 the activities of mankind. He possesses a raven
 cloak with which he can indulge in shape-chang
ing and fly to the heavens. Acts as a celestial
 majordomo and an intercessor with the creator
 god. According to legend, he died when he
 swallowed the sun. His daughter took it from
 his mouth and returned it to the sky. 
Little of this deity was known to the outside
 world until the turn of the 20th century. In 1900
 the Swedish-American ethnologist Waldemar
 Jochelson spent a considerable time living 
with Siberian tribes, including the Kovyak in 
the Kamchatka Peninsula, and discovered an
 extensive repertoire of tradition surrounding
 Quikinn.a’qu.
 Quinoa-Mama
 Minor goddess of the quinoa crop. Pre
Columbian Indian [Peru]. Models of the deity
 were made from the leaves of the plant and kept
 for a year before being burned in a ritual to ensure
 a good quinine harvest.
 Quirinus
 God of war. Roman. One of a triad of warrior
 gods including JUPITER and MARS. He originated
 as the tutelary god of the Sabines, living on the
 Quirinal, one of the seven hills of Rome. His war
rior status is primarily one of defense and he is
 depicted bearded and in a compromise of military
 and clerical clothing. The myrtle is sacred to him.
 Quzah (archer)
 Mountain and weather god. Pre-Islamic northern
 Arabian. Probably equating to QOSˇ and wor
shiped by the Idumaean tribe to the south of
 Judea as a storm god. Also claimed to have been
 known near Mecca. Attributes include a bow
 which shoots arrows of hail.
6
 R
 RADHA (prosperity)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India]. God
dess of emotional love.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1000 BC and
 earlier until present day.
 SYNONYMS BHUMIDEVI [southern India].
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES virtually none.
 LITERARY SOURCES later Puranic literature—the
 works of Vidyapati (1352-1448), including the
 Brahma-vaivarta-purana.
 Radha is a goddess whose role is limited to that of
 a favored mistress of KRSNA. She only emerges
 fully as a goddess from the twelfth century AD
 onward and she is one of the central figures in the
 poetry of Vidyapati, who places her as a cosmic
 queen. One of the creation accounts describes
 how Krsna divides himself into two parts, one of
 which is Radha. They make love for an age and
 their sweat and heavy breathing become the
 world’s oceans and winds. Radha gives birth to the
 golden egg of the universe, which floats on the
 primal waters for a year until the god VISˇNU
 emerges. 
Other mythology accounts that Radha enjoys
 an illicit relationship with an adolescent 
Krsna. Their tryst is set in the village of Vraja
 and in the surrounding forests at a time before
 Krsna takes as his consort RUKMINI and later
 SATYABHAMA.
 Radha is sometimes considered to be an
 avatara of LAKSMI and thus a consort of Krsna,
 and in southern India, as Bhumidevi, she
 becomes associated with SARASVATI. She always
 stands as the personification of emotional love in
 stark contrast to SATI, the faithful and legitimate
 consort of Visˇnu’s other avatara, RAMA. In the
 bhakti cult she symbolizes the yearning of the
 human soul to be drawn to Krsna. Attribute: a
 lotus.
 Rahu (seizer)
 Primordial cosmic deity. Hindu. The son of
 KASYAPA or RUDRA, according to legend he seizes
 the sun and moon to generate eclipses. 
Rahu is depicted with four hands and a tail, 
or as a head alone, his body having been
 destroyed by VISˇNU. He stands upon a lion or in
 a chariot drawn by eight black horses. Color:
 dark blue. Attributes: half moon, knife, sword
 and trident.
 Raijin
 Weather god(s). Shinto [Japan]. A generic 
title for a large group of deities controlling thun
261
262 Rajamatangi
 der, storms and rain. Among the most 
significant is RYUJIN, the dragon god of thunder
 and rain.
 Rajamatangi
 Goddess. Hindu. She stands upon a lotus. Attrib
utes: blue lotus, lute, moon and parrot.
 Raka (1)
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Hindu (Vedic.).
 Associated with the acquisition of wealth.
 Raka (trouble) (2)
 God of winds. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. The
 fifth child of VARI-MA-TE-TAKERE, the primor
dial mother. 
His home is Moana-Irakau (deep ocean). He
 received as a gift from his mother a great basket
 containing the winds, which became his children,
 each allotted a hole in the edge of the horizon
 through which to blow. The mother goddess also
 gave him knowledge of many useful things which
 he passes on to mankind.
 Rakib-El
 Moon god. Western Semitic (Syrian). Known
 chiefly from inscriptions circa eighth century BC.
 Rakta-Yamari (red Yamari)
 God. Buddhist. An emanation of AKSOBHYA and
 a variety of YAMARI. Color: red.
 Raktalokesvara
 God. Buddhist. A variety of the BODHISATTVA
 AVALOKITESVARA. he is generally depicted sitting
 beneath an asoka tree with red blossoms and 
is popularly known as the “Red Lord.” His
 attributes include a hook, bow, red lotus flower,
 arrow and noose. 
Raluvimbha
 Creator god. Baventa [northern Transvaal,
 South Africa]. The tribal chief converses with
 the god, who is responsible for all natural phe
nomena from thunderstorms to floods and
 plagues.
 Rama (pleasing)
 Incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The seventh avatara (sun aspect) of
 Visˇnu. Rama began as a comparatively minor
 incarnation who became one of the great heroes of
 the Ramayana epic, as well as featuring in the
 Mahabharata. The son of Dasaratha and Kausalya,
 he was a king of Ayodhya who, in the Ramayana,
 slew the demon Ravana that had captured his 
consort SITA and was upheld as a deity par excel
lence in respect of manhood and honor, though his
 subsequent treatment of his wife might be
 regarded as cavalier (see Sita).
 The Ramayana epic was composed by the poet
 and sage Valmeeki during the reign of
 Ramachandra and it gave form to a story that
 had been in existence for many centuries as an
 oral tradition. Valmeeki portrayed Rama not as
 an incarnate deity but as a great mortal hero.
 The saga is strongly political and serves to unite
 a vast and fragmented people in a common
 focus, irrespective of caste and language. It
 defines the historical schism between the Hindu
 culture of India and the largely Buddhist tradi
tion of Sri Lanka. 
Rama rides in a chariot and is depicted in
 human form with two arms, typically holding a
 sugar cane bow and with a quiver at his shoulder.
 Also Ramacandra.
Ran
 RATNASAMBHAVA 263
 Ratnapani (with a jewel in the hand)
 Storm goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). The consort
 of the god AEGIR. She was presumed to gather
 mariners in her net having carried them to the
 bottom of the sea in whirlpools. She was propiti
ated with money and other offerings thrown
 overboard.
 Rang
 God of hunting. Nuer [Sudan]. The rays of the
 sun are his flaming spears. Also Garang.
 Ranginui
 Sky god. Polynesian (including Maori). The so
called sky father of the Polynesian culture whose
 consort is PAPATUANUKU, the earth mother. 
During a prolonged period of inseparable inter
course they became the prime parents of the
 Polynesian pantheon of gods. The children found
 life between the bodies of the parents too
 cramped and conspired to force them apart.
 Though one offspring, TUMATAUENGA, wanted
 to slay them, the advice of TANEMAHUTA, the for
est god, prevailed and RANGINUI and Papatu
anuku were merely forced apart.
 Rasnu
 God of passage and justice. Persian [Iran]. The
 guardian of the bridge which leads to the other
world. He weighs souls in the scales at the final
 judgment.
 Rati
 Goddess of sexual desire. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A daughter of DAKSA (in some texts
 S
 ˇIVA) and the consort of the god KAMADEVA. One
 of twelve SAKTIS associated with the god VISˇNU in
 his various incarnations. Attribute: a sword.
 God. Buddhist. A form of RATNASAMBHAVA and
 also a dhyanibodhisattva or meditation BUDDHA.
 Color: yellow or green. Attributes: a jewel and
 the moon disc.
 Ratnaparamita
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: red. Attributes: jew
eled staff and moon on a lotus.
 RATNASAMBHAVA (born of a jewel)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The third DHYANIBUD
DHA or meditation BUDDHA.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Ratnaheruka.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic.
 ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculptures;
 paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric rit
ual texts.
 One of five mystic spiritual counterparts of a
 human buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism. A prod
uct of the ADIBUDDHA who represents the
 branch of the cosmos concerned with sensation.
 He originates from the yellow mantra symbol
 TRAM and lives in the southern paradise. The
 head of a group of deities who carry jewels and
 are family symbols, his SAKTI is MAMAKI and he
 is normally accompanied by two lions or horses.
 Color: yellow. Attributes: jewel and three
 monkish robes. 
Ratnasambhava is also taken as a tutelary deity
 in Lamaism [Tibet] in which case his attri
butes include a bell and a jewel. Emanations 
include APARAJITA, JAMBHALA, MAHAPRATISARA, the
 PARAMITAS, PRASANNATARA, RATNAPANI, VAJRATARA,
 VAJRAYOGINI and VASUDHARA. (See also AKSOBHYA,
264 Ratnolka
 Rauni
 AMITABHA, AMOGHASIDDHI and VAIROCANA.)
 Color: yellow. Attributes: bell and jewel.
 Ratnolka (jewel meteor)
 Goddess of light and deification of literature.
 Buddhist. One of a group of DHARANIS. Color:
 yellow. Attribute: jeweled staff.
 Ratnosnisa
 God. Buddhist. An USNISA deity apparently linked
 with the guardian sky deities or dikpalas in the
 southern direction. Color: blue.
 Ratri
 Goddess of the night. Hindu (Vedic). Ratri is the
 personification of darkness bedecked with stars.
 Her sister is USAS, the dawn goddess, who, with
 Agni the fire god, chases her away. She is per
ceived as the guardian of eternal law and order in
 the cosmos and of the waves of time. 
Ratri is generally regarded as a benign deity
 who offers rest and renewed vigor, and who may
 be invoked to ensure safety through the hours of
 darkness. She deposits the gift of morning dew.
 However she also offers a bleaker aspect as one
 who brings gloom and barrenness.
 Raudna (rowan tree)
 Goddess. Pre-Christian Lappish. The consort of
 the thunder god HORAGALLES.
 Raudri
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of a group of nine NAVASAKTIS who, in southern
 India, rank higher than the SAPTAMATARAS. She
 may also equate with the terrifying aspect of 
PARVATI as DURGA or KALI.
 Storm goddess. Finno-Ugrian. Consort of the
 thunder god UKKO and responsible for rainbows
 after storms.
 Rbhus (skilful)
 Sun gods. Hindu (Vedic). Identified in the Rg
 Veda as the craftsmen of the gods and linked with
 the Maruts. They are led by INDRA.
 RE
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Creator god and sun god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC
 until the end of Egyptian history, circa AD
 400.
 SYNONYMS Ra (Roman and Greek); Re-Atum;
 Re-Khepri; Amun-Re.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Heliopolis and elsewhere
 through the Nile valley.
 ART REFERENCES sculpture, stone reliefs, carv
ings, wall paintings, papyrus illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts, coffin texts,
 etc; the Westcar Papyrus.
 Re is one of several manifestations of the sun
 god and creator god of Egypt, emphasizing a
 fragmented tribal past in the pre-Dynastic
 period. According to legend he created himself
 out of the mound that emerged from the
 primeval ocean. In other depictions he arose as
 a child from the primeval lotus blossom. He is
 generally depicted in the form of a falcon wear
ing the sun disc on its head, surrounded by the
 serpentine form of the cobra-goddess WADJET.
 Re is also perceived as god of the underworld.
 He is known in some inscriptions as “Re in
 OSIRIS, Osiris in Re,” in which case he often 
rides in his barque as a human figure with a ram’s
 head surmounted by a sun disc and accompa
nied by the cobra goddess. The notion of the
Revanta 265
 “Eye of Re” is a very complex one, suggesting
 several things including, in essence, his power
 and perfection.
 The cult of Re took on major importance at
 Heliopolis from the middle of the third millen
nium when the V Dynasty rulers entitled them
selves as the sons of Re. Closely linked with the
 underworld god Osiris, the notion took shape
 that the combined deity was Re by day as the sun
 climbed above the eastern horizon and became
 Osiris, lord of the western horizon, at the onset of
 night.
 Re was regarded with a considerable amount of
 fear. The cobra element suggests his ability to
 deliver instant nemesis. By contrast, he is said to
 have created mankind from his tears. Several
 minor deities were also, by repute, generated out
 of drops of blood falling from Re’s penis which he
 self-mutilated (see SIA).
 Redarator
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Associated
 with second ploughing and invoked by sacrifice,
 generally with TELLUS and CERES.
 Renenutet
 Snake goddess. Egyptian. Also possessing fertil
ity connotations, she guarded the pharaoh in the
 form of a cobra. There is some evidence that
 she enjoyed a cult in the Faiyum, the highly fer
tile region of the Nile valley. She is depicted
 either in human form or as a hooded cobra, in
 which case she bears close association with the
 goddess WADJET who is embodied in the uraeus.
 Her gaze has the power to conquer enemies. In
 her capacity as a fertility goddess she suckles
 infant rulers and provides good crops and har
vests, linked in this capacity to OSIRIS and the
 more ancient grain god NEPER. She is also a
 magical power residing in the linen robe of the
 pharaoh and in the linen bandages with which he
 is swathed in death. 
At Edfu Renenutet takes the title “lady of the
 robes.” In the Greco-Roman period, she became
 adopted by the Greeks as the goddess Her
mouthis and was syncretized with ISIS.
 Reret See TAWERET.
 Res ˇep (A)Mukal
 War and plague god. Western Semitic (Canaan
ite and Phoenician), originating in Syria. Intro
duced into Egypt by the XVIII Dynasty during
 the sixteenth century BC and rapidly achieved
 some prominence. His wife is Itum and he 
was also known as Resˇep-Amukal and Resˇep
Sulman. 
Resˇep is probably modeled on the Meso
potamian NERGAL. He is depicted as a youthful,
 warlike god, often with a gazelle’s head springing
 from his forehead, and with a spear in his right
 hand. In Egyptian iconography he is depicted
 wearing the crown of Upper Egypt surmounted
 in front by the head of a gazelle. He has links
 with the Theban war god MONTU and was
 thought of as a guardian deity in battle by many
 Egyptian pharaohs; he is said to have shot fire
brands with a bow and arrow. He also exerted a
 benign influence against disease. The influence of
 Resˇep extended to Cyprus during the pre
Hellenic period and at the time of Hellenization
 he was allied to and perhaps syncretized with
 APOLLO. Also Rasˇap, Resˇef.
 Revanta (with wealth)
 God of hunters. Hindu. The son of SURYA and
 SANJNA. Known mainly from eastern India and
 Gujarat, he protects mankind against the dangers
 of the forest. Infrequently depicted in art.
266 Revati
 Riddhivasita (control of prosperity)
 Revati
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Rhadamanthos
 Minor chthonic underworld god. Greco-Roman.
 One of three judges attending the goddess of 
justice THEMIS evaluating the souls of the dead
 entering Hades.
 Rhea
 Primordial goddess. Greek. The daughter of
 OURANOS and GAIA, she is the consort of 
KRONOS and mother of ZEUS and other gods of
 Olympus, known only from the Theogony 
(Hesiod) and Iliad (Homer). She is also recog
nized in Roman literature under the same name.
 Also Rheie.
 Rheie See RHEA.
 Rhiannon
 Chthonic horse goddess. Celtic (Irish). The
 daughter of Hefaidd Hen and consort of PWYLL,
 she rides upon a white mare and is associated
 with the underworld and with fertility. May be
 virtually synonymous with the Romano-Celtic
 goddess Rigantona whose name means “great
 queen.” Authors suggest she is modeled on the
 goddess MODRON and she partly equates with
 EPONA.
 Riddhi (prosperity)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of the
 consorts of GANESA, but otherwise very close in
 appearance to LAKSMI. She carries Laksmi’s
 attributes when standing alone.
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spiritual
 regeneration. Color: green. Attribute: moon disc.
 Rigisamus
 God of war. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Assimilated
 with MARS.
 Rind
 Chthonic goddess. Northern Germanic and
 Nordic (Icelandic). She is mentioned as a consort
 of OTHIN and mother of VALI. Also Rinda; Rindr.
 Ritona
 Goddess of river fords. Romano-Celtic. Known
 from inscriptions and associated with the Treveri
 tribe.
 Rohini (red)
 1. Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). She is the
 mother of BUDHA.
 2. Goddess of learning. Jain. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Roma
 Tutelary goddess. Greek and Roman. The deity
 was actually conceived by the Greeks and shrines
 were set up at centers including Smyrna and
 Ephesus.
 Rongomai
 Whale god. Polynesian and Maori. He is the 
son of TANGAROA, the creator deity responsible
 for the oceans and the fish, and the father of
 KAHUKURA, the deity responsible for the appear
Rudra 267
 ance of the rainbow. He is also regarded as the
 ancestor of several Maori clans. 
Various traditions are associated with Rongo
mai. In some regions of New Zealand he is also
 regarded as a god of war and is thought to have
 discovered the magic arts during a visit to the
 underworld, including the power of kaiwhatu, a
 preventative charm against witchcraft. Rongomai
 is sometimes mistakenly identified with RONGO
MATANE, or Rongo, though the latter is generally
 considered a distinct personality. As the god
 responsible for the well-being of whales Rongo
mai may take the form of a whale, a guise in which
 he once challenged MARU, a more widely recog
nized New Zealand war god. Separate mythology
 places him in the heavens in the form of a comet.
 Rongomatane
 God of agriculture. Polynesian (including Maori).
 He is the father of cultivated food and the special
 gardener of the kumara or sweet potato which is
 a vital crop in Polynesia. In New Zealand the first
 sweet potatoes are offered to Rongomatane. In
 the traditions of the Hervey Islands, Rongo is one
 of the five sons of the moon god, Vatea, and the
 mother goddess, Papa.
 Rosmerta (great provider)
 Fertility goddess. Romano-Celtic (Gallic and
 British). Consort to the god Mercury. Probably
 locally worshiped and often depicted carrying a
 basket of fruit, purse or cornucopia. She and Mer
cury frequently appear together. In addition to
 her purse, she may bear a twin-headed ax or,
 alternatively, she may carry Mercury’s caduceus
 (snake-entwined wand).
 See also MERCURIUS.
 Rsabha (the bull)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). An unusual
 avatara of VISˇNU. Said to be similar to the Jain
 deity Rsabhanatha and therefore may represent
 an attempt to meld the two religions by absorb
ing Jainism locally.
 Ruamoko
 God of volcanoes and earthquakes. Polynesian
 and Maori. According to tradition, Ruamoko is
 the youngest son of RANGINUI and PAPATUANUKU
 and is possessed by a formidable temper. When
 his older siblings set about separating the prime
 parents from their eternal lovemaking in order to
 allow light into the space between sky and earth,
 he was enraged and his boisterous tantrum
 became revealed in the violence of volcanic erup
tions and earthquakes. 
Ruamoko is of less importance than PELE, the
 chief volcano goddess of Polynesia, who is
 revered mainly in Hawaii.
 Rubanga
 Creator god. Alur [Uganda and Democratic
 Republic of Congo, Africa]. His sacred bird is
 the ibis.
 Ruda
 Tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian. An
 androgynous being symbolized by the evening
 star. Also ARSU (Palmyra).
 Rudiobus
 Probably a horse god. Romano-Celtic (Gallic).
 Known from an inscription at Neuvy-en-Sullias
 which includes a depiction of a stallion.
 Rudra (howler)
 Weather god. Hindu (Vedic). An early deity,
 largely superseded by S ˇIVA, who controls the gales
 and storms. Often linked with the fire god AGNI
 and the rain god INDRA. Generally a malignant
268 Rudracandra
 god, Rudra lives in the mountains and is deemed to
 be either tall or dwarf, depending on the severity of
 the storm. He brings death and disease to man and
 domestic animals through his “thousand shafts,”
 and is considered to be highly unpredictable.
 Rudracandra
 Distinct form of the goddess DURGA. Hindu. One
 of a group of nine NAVADURGAS, known as the
 “nine durgas.”
 Rudracarcika
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Puranic). One of the
 ASTAMATARAS, alternatively a variety of the god
dess DURGA.
 Rudrani
 Goddess. Hindu. An epithet of DURGA, imper
sonated by a young pre-menstrual girl in the
 Durga festivals.
 Rugievit
 Local tutelary and war god. Slav. Identified by
 the historian Saxo Grammaticus as inhabiting the
 island of Rügen, depicted with seven heads and
 carrying a sword.
 Ruhanga
 Creator god. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa]. The
 initiator of the world, he is regarded as a distant
 figure and seldom invoked.
 Rukmini (with gold ornaments)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The daugh
ter of Bhismaka, she is the first consort of KRSNA
 and typically stands to his right. Her son is KAMA.
 She is also an avatara of LAKSMI. Attribute: a
 lotus. Also Rukmabayi.
 Rumina
 Minor goddess. Roman. Associated with breast
feeding.
 Rundas
 God of fortune. Hittite and Hurrian. Also associ
ated with hunting, he is symbolized by a double
 eagle carrying prey in its talons.
 Rupini
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Ryangombe
 Tutelary god. Rwanda [East Africa]. An ancestral
 deity and king of the spirit world who has an orac
ular capacity.
 Ryujin
 Dragon god. Shinto [Japan]. A deity control
ling thunder and rain and probably the most
 significant of the group of weather gods 
known as the RAIJIN. He is of Chinese origin
 and more Buddhist than Shinto. He does not
 appear in the sacred Shinto texts Kojiki or
 Nihongi, but enjoys shrines in many Shinto
 sanctuaries and is worshiped by farmers, par
ticularly in times of drought. He lives in the
 sea, lakes and large ponds from which he
 ascends in mists and winds. He generates dark
 rain clouds which then burst. His main festival
 takes place in June.
6
 S
 Sa
 Chthonic creator god. Kono [eastern Guinea,
 West Africa]. One of a pair of creator deities, with
 ALATANGANA. Sa inhabited the primeval swamps
 before the sky or the light existed and before there
 were any living things on earth. He had a daugh
ter who eloped with Alatangana and bore fourteen
 children, three pairs of black and four pairs of
 white, all of whom spoke different languages and
 to whom Sa gave the tools of survival.
 SABAOTH
 ORIGIN Gnostic Christian [eastern
 Mediterranean]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP uncertain origins
 until circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS none, but see below.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT undefined cells within the
 area of early Christian influence.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Nag Hammadi codices.
 Sabaoth, in Gnostic cosmogony, is one of the
 seven offspring of the “primal parent” YALD
ABAOTH. The narrative which emerges in such
 works as Origin of the World is confused and in
 places contradictory. Sabaoth rebelled against his
 father, who had become arrogant and impious,
 and backed the primordial female force SOPHIA
 who, having been responsible for Yaldabaoth, was
 horrified at what she had created. She describes
 Yaldabaoth as “a blind god, SAMAEL.” Sabaoth is
 joined by seven benign archangels and in the first
 great battle of the cosmos comes to rule over all,
 including the forces of chaos. Arguably Sabaoth
 equates to the god of Israel, YHWH.
 Sabazios
 God. Phrygian [northwestern Turkey]. Eventually
 Hellenized, identified with ZEUS and DIONYSOS
 and linked with Dionysiac mysteries, appearing 
in Athens from circa 400 BC. His device is a right
 hand cast in bronze and decorated with symbols
 representing his benevolence. His influence
 extended into Roman culture where he reached a
 height of popularity circa AD 200. As late as AD 300
 there are frescoes of Sabazios in the tomb of Vibia
 whose husband was a priest of the god’s cult.
 Sadaksari (Lokesvara)
 Variety of AVALOKITESVARA. Buddhist-Lamaist
 [Tibet]. The form of Avalokitesvara that is incar
nate in the succession of Dalai Lamas. Color:
 white. Attributes: book, conch, jewel, lotus and
 rosary.
 269
270 Sadbhuja-Sitatara
 Sajara
 Sadbhuja-Sitatara
 God. Buddhist. An emanation of AMOGHASIDDHI
 and a variety of SITATARA. Color: white. Attributes:
 arrow, blue lotus, bow, image of Amoghasiddhi on
 crown, lotus and rosary. Three-headed.
 Sadhumati (good)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of sev
eral deified BHUMIS recognized as different spir
itual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: white. Attributes: staff, and sword on a
 blue lotus.
 Sadrapa
 God of healing. Western Semitic (Syrian) and
 Pontic. He is depicted on reliefs as a youth hold
ing a scorpion or snake. Known originally from
 Palmyra, his popularity spread to Carthage and,
 during the Hellenic period, to the Greek coast.
 Also Satrapis (Greek).
 Sagaramati (mind of the ocean)
 God. Buddhist. A BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate. Color: white. Attributes: conch, and
 sword with staff.
 Sahar
 Moon god. Western Semitic (Aramaic). Known
 from inscriptions.
 Sai’ Al Qaum (the good and beautiful god
 who does not drink wine)
 Local guardian deity. Western Semitic (Nabataean).
 Known from two inscriptions at Palmyra which
 suggest him to be a protector of caravans. Attributes
 include a helmet. He may have developed from an
 Egyptian god Sai (Greek: Psais).
 Rainbow god. Songhai [eastern Mali, West
 Africa]. Perceived as a rainbow-colored snake and
 symbolized by a tree where white rams are sacri
ficed and hung. The animals’ blood is sprinkled
 on the tree. The ritual is accompanied by a rain
 dance.
 SAKHMET (the powerful one)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Goddess of war.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 the end of Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Sachmet; possibly S ˇESMETET.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Heliopolis, Memphis and
 other sanctuaries along the Nile valley.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, particularly at Kar
nak from sixteenth century BC onward; wall
 paintings, royal tombs at Thebes, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES coffin texts, royal tombs at
 Thebes, etc.
 Sakhmet is a significant deity in the Egyptian
 New Kingdom at Memphis. Her father is the
 sun god RE and she is the consort of PTAH. She
 is, by implication, the mother of the god of 
the primordial lotus blossom, NEFERTUM. In
 iconography Sakhmet is generally depicted in
 human form, but with the head of a lioness 
surmounted by a sun disc. Occasionally she is
 drawn with a rosette pattern over each breast
 (see ISˇTAR).
 Sakhmet is, to an extent, syncretized with the
 goddess MUT, who is the consort of the sun god
 of Thebes, AMUN. In the Karnak complex large
 numbers of Sakhmet’s statues, typically hewn in
 black granite and in which she holds the ankh
 symbol of life or a papyrus stem, were raised in
 the precinct of the Mut sanctuary.
 She is said to breathe fire against the enemies of
 the pharaoh and, like HATHOR in her attempt to
 destroy the human race, she can be the vengeful
Salus 271
 “eye of Re.” She is sometimes linked with Hathor
 who is described as the “mistress of the house of
 Sakhmet.” In a more benign aspect, Sakhmet is a
 guardian goddess against disease.
 S
 ˇakka(n)
 God of cattle. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). A patron god of herdsmen, probably
 deriving from the Sumerian god LAHAR. Also
 Amakandu, Sumuqan.
 Sakra (the mighty one)
 God. Buddhist. The god of the month asvina and
 an epithet of the Vedic god INDRA.
 Sakti (energy)
 Personification of a god. Hindu, Jain and Bud
dhist. The effective power, or creative force, of
 a deity in the form of a female aspect. In a 
more specific context, the SAKTI identifies the
 creative force of the god S ˇIVA, particularly the
 ugra or violent aspects DURGA and KALI. The
 Sakti may frequently have the same characteris
tics and carry the same attributes as the 
principal god. In Tantrism, the unity of 
opposites is defined by the Sakti, which is the
 yoni or female sexuality that unites with the 
male lingam of S ˇiva.
 Sakumo
 God of war. Gan [Accra region, Ghana, West
 Africa]. The guardian deity of the Gan tribe.
 Sakyamuni (the sage of the Sakyas)
 God. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. The historical
 BUDDHA, known mainly from Tibet. He stands
 upon a lotus. Color: golden. Attribute: a bowl.
 S
 ˇala
 War goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). A consort of ADAD, she carries a double
headed mace-scimitar embellished with lion heads.
 Salagrama
 Aniconic form of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (late). A
 fossil ammonite shell embodying the god and
 forming a part of daily ritual in many Vaisnava
 households as well as appearing in monasteries.
 Salevao
 Primordial god of rocks. Polynesian. He is the
 brother of SAVEA SI’ULEO, god of the dead, and
 the consort of PAPATUANUKA, the earth mother,
 who became pregnant and gave birth to Moa in
 the center of the earth. (Moa may have been the
 ancestor of mankind, roughly equating to Adam.)
 S
 ˇalim
 God of evening. Western Semitic (Syrian). Gen
erally linked with S ˇAR, the god of dawn.
 Salm of Mahram (image of Mahram)
 Local tutelary god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian.
 Correspondence of the Babylonian king Nabonidus
 (559-539 BC) mentions that this deity was wor
shiped at Taima, an important trade and religious
 center where he was head of the pantheon. Gods in
 the region were often named after local places and
 personified by a stone stele carved with schematic
 anthropomorphic features and a winged disc show
ing strong Egyptian influence. Also Salman.
 Salus (salvation)
 Minor god of health. Roman. A sanctuary dated
 to 302 BC on the Quirinal, one of the seven hills
272 Sama
 of Rome, is dedicated to the deity. He was also
 worshiped within the colonies of the empire.
 There is an altar at Corbridge in Northumber
land, England with a votive inscription to Salus.
 Attributes include a bowl and a snake.
 Sama
 Obscure heroic god. Dravidian (Tamil) [south
ern India]. Known circa first to fifth century AD.
 The younger brother of the god of love KAMA
 and equating to SAMBA, worshiped in northern
 India.
 Samael
 Creator god. Gnostic Christian. The “blind god.” 
See also YALDABAOTH.
 Samantabhadra (all-good)
 God. Buddhist. A form of VAIROCANA and a
 dhyanibodhisattva (spiritual meditation buddha).
 He sits on a throne carried by a white elephant.
 Color: blue, green or white. Attributes: bell, cup,
 jewel, lotus with prayer wheel or sword. In Tibet
 he is also known as Kun-tu-bzan-po. 
See also BO HSIAN.
 Samantaprabha (possessing universal splendor)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of 
several deified BHUMIS recognized as different
 spiritual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: red. Attributes: an image of AMITABHA
 carried in the hand, and a staff.
 S
 ˇamas ˇ
 Sun god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 The patron deity of Sippar and Larsa. His consort
 is the mother goddess A-A. S ˇamasˇ derives from
 the god UTU in the Sumerian pantheon. He is
 associated with justice. His symbol is the sun disc
 and a star surrounded with radiating sunbeams.
 He may carry a single-headed scimitar embel
lished with a panther head. His sanctuary is
 known as the E-babbar. Also associated with
 human-headed bulls. His attendant deities
 include Mesˇaru, justice, and Kettu, righteousness.
 He came to much greater prominence in the 
pantheon at Babylon from about the eighteenth
 century BC.
 Samba
 Heroic god. Hindu [northern India]. The son of
 KRSNA and RUKMINI, alternatively the son of
 VISˇNU. The younger brother of the god KAMA
 and consort of INDUKARI. Also one of the minor
 incarnations of Visˇnu worshiped in the cult of the
 pancaviras by the Vrisni clans.
 Samkarsana
 Localized form of BALARAMA. Dravidian (Tamil)
 [southern India and Sri Lanka]. Has a complexion
 “white like milk,” wears a blue robe with a red
 garland and carries a nanjil (plough).
 Sampsa (sedge)
 Vegetation god. Pre-Christian Finnish. He is per
ceived as a giver of life to seed which lies dormant
 through the winter months. His unnamed con
sort, to whom he is wed in a form of sacred 
marriage which takes place at sowing time, is also
 his stepmother.
 S
 ˇams
 Sun deity. Pre-Islamic Arabian. In the north the
 being is male, in the south female. Probably
 derived from S ˇAMASˇ.
Samvara (keeping out)
 Saning Sari 273
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of the emana
tions of AKSOBHYA and also of HEVAJIRA. In
 Lamaism he is a four-headed tutelary yi-dam god.
 His SAKTI is VAJRAVARAHI. He stands upon one or
 more four-armed Hindu deities including Kalara
tri and BHAIRAVA. Color: blue or black. Attrib
utes: ax, bell, cup, drum, image of Aksobhya on
 the crown, image of four-faced BRAHMA, knife,
 moon disc, skin, staff and trident.
 San Chou Niang Niang
 Mother goddess. Chinese. First deified during
 the Sung Dynasty (AD 960-1279) to combat the
 popularity of KUAN YIN, no mortal existence is
 recognized for this deity who is referred to 
simply as “heavenly mother.” By tradition she
 rules over the “islands of the blessed,” the three
 mythical islands which are the home of the gods.
 She is depicted wearing a yellow robe signifying
 imperial rank and carries the attribute of a
 scepter. Typically she displays an enigmatic smile.
 gSan Sgrub
 God. Bon and Lamaist [Tibet]. Originally a Bon
 deity who became syncretized as a variety of the
 god YAMA in Lamaism. His animal is the bull and
 he may appear bull-headed. Color: red. Attrib
utes: cup, knife and prayer wheel.
 Sandhya
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The daugh
ter of BRAHMA and consort of S ˇIVA or other deities.
 San-Dui
 Tutelary god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a
 group of Lamaist tutelary or yi-dam deities cho
sen on an individual basis as personal guardians.
 Color: blue. Attributes: bell, jewel, lotus, prayer
 wheel, regal trappings, staff and sword. Three
eyed and three-headed.
 Sangarios
 River god. Phrygian [northwestern Turkey]. A
 Hellenized version of an Asiatic god whose
 daughter, NANA, is, according to some traditions,
 the mother of the vegetation god ATTIS. She
 impregnated herself with an almond seed.
 Sango
 God of thunder. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 His sacred animal is the ram whose bellowing is
 likened to the noise of thunder. Attributes include
 an ax which is worn on the head and bears six eyes.
 Sani
 1. Astral god. Hindu. The son of SURYA and
 CHAYA and the personification of the planet 
Saturn. Stands upon a lotus or rides in an iron
 chariot drawn by eight piebald horses. Color:
 black or blue. Attributes: arrow, bow, rosary, staff
 and trident.
 2. Astral god. Buddhist. Stands upon a tortoise.
 Color: blue-black. Attribute: a staff.
 Saning Sari
 Rice mother. Javan. Represented by parts of the
 rice plant known as indoea padi (mother of the
 rice). At planting, the finest grain is picked out
 and sown in the nursery bed in the form of the
 goddess, after which the rest of the grain is sown
 round about. At transplanting, the shoots making
 up the rice mother are given a similar special
 place in the paddy field. At harvesting, the rice
 mother plants are “found” and brought home for
 the following year’s planting.
274 Sanjna
 Santa (appeased)
 Sanjna (conscience)
 Goddess. Hindu. The daughter of TVASTAR, a
 consort of SURYA and, in some texts, the mother
 of YAMA.
 Sanju
 Harvest goddess. Kafir [Afghanistan]. A little
reported deity, the consort of the war god GISH
 and daughter of SANU. She controls the har
vesting, threshing and winnowing of grain and
 the safe storage of wheat and butter. She carries
 a golden winnow and is either depicted in
 human form or as a goat. Her cult is known
 chiefly from the village of Pronz in the south
ern Hindukush where she enjoyed an important
 sanctuary with stone seats around the icon, part
 of which reportedly still exists. Wooden statues
 depict her in human form, nude to the waist.
 Alternatively, she is perceived as a bird that acts
 as a messenger. The blood of sacrificial animals
 was poured over the figure. Also Sulmech;
 SANU.
 Sankari
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of the SAPTAMATARAS.
 Sankha(pala)
 Snake god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of 
a group of seven MAHANAGAS or nagadevas.
 Attributes: cup and rosary. Three-eyed.
 Sanmukha (six-headed)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A form of
 SKANDA and the son of PASUPATI and Svaha. God
 of the month asadha. His SAKTIS include VIJAYA
 and Jaya. He holds a large variety of attributes.
 Also Arumukan.
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who is one of a group of both SAPTAMATARA
 and ASTAMATARA mothers. Also CAMUNDA.
 Santana (offspring)
 Minor god. Hindu. The son of Ugra and DIKSA.
 Also the personification of one of the five trees of
 paradise.
 Santi (peace of mind)
 Goddess. Hindu. The consort of TRIVIKRAMA.
 Santoshí Mata
 Mother goddess. Modern Hindu. She first
 appeared in northern India in 1960 and has since
 developed a sizeable cult following. She is
 invoked to assist in gaining personal advancement
 and prosperity.
 Sanu
 God of obscure affinities. Kafir (Afghanistan).
 The father of the goddess SANJU and an adversary
 of the war god GISH. Described as a “Muslim,” so
 perhaps of foreign import. Also Sanru.
 Sao Ching Niang Niang
 Mother goddess. Chinese. One of the “nine dark
 ladies” of the pantheon who adopt a protective
 role. She removes rain clouds when they threaten
 to flood crops.
 S
 ˇapas ˇ
 Sun god. Western Semitic (Canaanite). Modeled
 on the Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian)
 god S ˇAMASˇ.
Saptamatara
 SARASVATI 275
 Generic title of a group of mother goddesses.
 Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Seven deities of evil
 influence, who generally inflict disease or other
 harm on children. Common color: red. Attrib
utes: cup and lotus.
 S
 ˇar
 God of the dawn. Western Semitic (Syrian). 
Generally linked with the god of evening, S ˇALIM.
 S
 ˇara
 Minor war god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Mainly identified with the
 city of Umma, north east of Unug (Uruk), and
 identified in some texts as the son of INANA (IS ˇTAR).
 Saraddevi (goddess of autumn)
 Fertility and vegetation goddess. Buddhist
Lamaist [Tibet]. Associated with autumn, and 
an attendant of the goddess SRIDEVI. Her sacred
 animal is an antelope. Attributes: cup, knife and
 peacock feather.
 Sarama (the nimble one)
 Attendant goddess. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and
 Puranic). She acts as a messenger to the god
 INDRA and guards his herds. In later Hindu texts
 Sarama is reputedly the mother of all dogs and is
 given the epithet the “bitch of heaven.” The Rg
 Veda accounts her as having punished the minor
 deity Panis for stealing cows.
 Saranyu (the fleet one)
 Primordial goddess of uncertain affinities. Hindu
 (Vedic). Saranyu is the daughter of the god TVAS
TAR, and the sister of VISVARUPA. Her consort is
 Vivasvat, by whom she is said to be the mother of
 YAMA and YAMI, the twin progenitors of the
 human race. Little else is known of her, but she is
 accounted as having an impetuous nature.
 See also VIVASVAN.
 Sarapis
 God. Late Egyptian. Known only from the
 Greco-Roman period of the early Ptolemies
 (fourth century BC) but persisting in Europe until
 second or third century AD. In Egyptian religion
 Sarapis is a hybridization of certain aspects of
 OSIRIS, the underworld god, and APIS, the bull
 god, who symbolizes the earthly presence of
 PTAH. Sarapis is perceived to epitomize both the
 fertility of the land and the life of the sacred bull
 after death. In Greek mythology he takes on
 aspects of ZEUS, HELIOS, ASKLEPIOS and
 DIONYSOS. He was worshiped extensively in the
 Roman Empire period. A sanctuary at York in
 England was dedicated by a soldier of the sixth
 legion, and magnificent statues were discovered
 in the Walbrook Mithraeum in London, and at
 Merida in Spain. Also Seraphis (Greek).
 SARASVATI (flowing water)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic, Epic, and Puranic) [India].
 Mother goddess and goddess of wisdom. Later,
 patron of the arts.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 600 BC, but
 undoubtedly based on much earlier prehistoric
 models, until present.
 SYNONYMS Brahmi; Vagdevi (goddess of speech).
 Other epithets include BHARATI.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout India.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze,
 but also in stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda and other Vedic
 texts; Ramayana epic and Puranic texts.
 Sarasvati, as an identifiable personality, may have
 begun as a Vedic river goddess (the actual river
276 Sarpanitu(m)
 Sarasvati has now disappeared but she may also be
 linked with the Indus, etc). In the Vedic capacity
 her waves are said to smash mountains and her
 voice is the roar of the torrent. Since her source
 of strength is the primeval water, she is inex
haustible and she is a bringer of fertility and
 bountiful harvests. Thus, by inference, she also
 provides prosperity. Her presence purifies and,
 in antiquity, she slew VRTRA, the demonic god of
 chaos. In her capacity as a Vedic goddess she is
 invoked on the sacrificial field with the lesser
 goddesses ILA, BHARATI, MAHI and HOTRA.
 In later Puranic literature Sarasvati (Brahmi)
 becomes the first consort of the creator god
 BRAHMA(see also GAYATRI). Other texts offer her
 in contention with LAKSMI as consort of VISˇNU.
 She also became syncretized with the goddess
 VAC. She is said to have invented Sanskrit and is
 identified as goddess of wisdom and of the arts.
 The Vedas are her inspiration and she may be
 known as the “mother of the Vedas.” A Hindu fes
tival in her honor is celebrated in early January or
 late February. She is a patron goddess of students,
 and books, pencils and pens are offered to her by
 children before they begin classes. Her image
 often appears on the portals of school gates.
 She is generally depicted with either two or
 four arms. Color: white. She may be seated or
 ride upon a swan or a peacock or a lotus. Attrib
utes include particularly the lute but also arrow,
 bell, book, bow, conch, club, hook, prayer wheel,
 rosary, waterjar and other items. She may offer a
 piece of sugar cane or a flower to Brahma. Infre
quently three-headed.
 Sarpanitu(m) See ZARPANITUM.
 S
 ˇarra Itu
 Fertility goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Originally the tutelary
 deity of the city of S ˇu-Sin. By Hellenistic times
 she probably became the more important god
dess Sarrahitu who is included in the pantheon at
 Uruk and mentioned in various cult texts where
 she is described as “the bride” and was presum
ably involved in a sacred marriage ceremony.
 S
 ˇarrahitu See S ˇARRA ITU.
 Sarritor
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Invoked dur
ing growing and harvesting of crops.
 S
 ˇarruma
 God. Hittite and Hurrian. Originally a Hurrian
 deity adopted by the Hittite state religion. The son
 of the weather god TESˇUB and his consort HEBAT.
 His sacred animal is a panther. Attribute: ax.
 Sarvabuddhadharma-Kosavati (with the
 virtues of all the buddhas)
 God of literature. Buddhist. The deification of
 texts. One of a group of DHARANIS. Color: yellow.
 Attributes: basket of jewels and staff.
 Sarvakarmavaranavisodhani (washing
 away the obstruction of all deeds)
 God of literature. Buddhist. The deification of
 texts. One of a group of DHARANIS. Color: green.
 Attribute: staff.
 Sarvanivaranaviskambhin (remover of stain)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A dhyaniboddhisattva
 or spiritual meditation buddha. Color: white.
 Attributes: book, jewel, moon disc, sword and
 staff.
Sarvapayanjaha (remover of miseries)
 Satis 277
 SATI (truth)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A dhyaniboddhisattva
 or spiritual mediation buddha. Color: white.
 Attribute: hook in two hands.
 Sarvasokatamonirghatamati (destroyer of
 sorrow)
 God. Buddhist. A dhyanibodhisattva or spiritual
 meditation buddha.
 Sarvastramahajvala (the great blaze of all
 weapons)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Sasanadevata
 Messenger goddess. Jain [India]. Generic name
 for one of a group of twenty-four who minister to
 the tirthankaras or saints of Jainism.
 Sasuratum
 Midwife goddesses. Western Semitic (Canaanite).
 A group of seven female deities fathered by BAAL.
 Also Kosharot (Hebrew).
 Satabhisa
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A malevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Satarupa (with a hundred forms)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Puranic). The daughter
 of BRAHMA with whom he committed incest 
and whose beauty caused him to generate 
four heads so that he might view her from all
 directions.
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India].
 Mother goddess.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Sakti, PARVATI
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze,
 but also in stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana and other texts.
 Sati is the older incarnation of the benign
 aspect of the goddess Sakti. Alternatively she is
 perceived as an incarnation of LAKSMI. Accord
ing to legend her father was DAKSA and her
 mother PRASUTI. She bore sixteen daughters,
 the youngest of whom was Sati. She is perceived
 as an ideal Hindu wife and mother who, as a
 maiden, falls in love with the god S ˇIVA. At her
 choosing-of-a-husband ceremony she is dis
tressed that her father has not invited S ˇiva and
 throws her bridal wreath into the air, whereupon
 S
 ˇ iva appears in front of her. She becomes the
 consort of S ˇiva, but the marital association is
 generally recognized when he is in his form
 known as Bhava, an epithet meaning “existence.”
 Eventually she dies at Daksa’s feet from the self
immolating heat of her own purity and zeal. She
 is reincarnated as Parvati.
 The mythology is the basis of the practice of
 self-sacrifice which came to be known as sati or
 suttee. She is also connected with fire-walking
 rituals.
 Satis (she who shoots; she who pours)
 Minor goddess. Egyptian. A guardian of the
 southern (Nubian) border of Upper Egypt. The
 consort of the ram god KHNUM and, by implica
tion, the mother of ANUKIS. She is depicted wear
ing the conical white crown of Upper Egypt,
 bearing tall plumes or antelope horns. Satis is
278 Satrughna
 described in Pyramid Texts, particularly the Step
 Pyramid at Saqqara, and there is reference to a
 sanctuary built for her at Elephantine. Also Satjit;
 Satet (both Egyptian).
 Satrughna (destroyer of foes)
 Minor god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The
 brother of LAKSMANA and a half-brother to the
 god RAMA. His mother is Sumitra. He may be
 depicted holding a fly whisk in each hand. 
See also LAKSMANA.
 Saturnus
 Astral god. Roman. Identified with the planet
 Saturn, but thought to have originated as an
 agricultural deity concerned with sowing of
 seed. A sanctuary existed on the Roman forum
 from as early as 450 BC, also functioning as the
 imperial treasury. Saturnus was celebrated 
in the Saturnalia festival (December 17-19) dur
ing which masters and slaves exchanged roles
 and candles were given as gifts to symbolize the
 winter darkness.
 Satyabhama (with true luster)
 Goddess. Hindu-Dravidian (Tamil). Known
 particularly from southern India as the second
 consort of KRSNA, who stands on her left; 
also as the secorid consort of VISˇNU. Attribute:
 a flower.
 Satyr
 Woodland god. Greco-Roman. Generic term
 for an assortment of divine beings with a 
human torso and the legs, hair and horns of 
a goat. They include the god PAN and the
 demigod Silenus who raised the adolescent 
BACCHUS.
 Saubhagya-Bhuvanesvari (buddha of good
 fortune)
 Goddess of good fortune. Buddhist. A gentle and
 benevolent deity. Color: red. Attributes: red lotus,
 and waterjar with jewels.
 Saule
 Sun goddess. Pre-Christian Latvian. Also having
 agricultural links, she is perceived as living on a
 heavenly farm atop a mythical mountain and
 invoked to induce fertility and ripening among
 crops. Her consorts are the sky god DIEVS and the
 moon god MENESS.
 S
 ˇaus ˇka
 Fertility goddess. Hittite and Hurrian. Of Hur
rian origin, S ˇausˇka was adopted by the Hittite
 state religion. She is also identified with war and
 is particularly renowned as a goddess of healing.
 She is depicted in human form with wings, stand
ing with a lion and accompanied by two atten
dants. S ˇausˇka is known in detail only because she
 became the patron goddess of the Hittite king
 Hattusilis II (1420-1400 BC).
 Savari
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist-Lamaist
 [Tibet]. One of a group of gauris. Color: white.
 Attributes: holding the mountain known as Meru.
 Savea Si’uleo
 God of the dead. Polynesian. The brother of 
SALEVAO, god of rocks.
 Savitar (impeller)
 Sun god. Hindu (Puranic). The original Vedic
 list of six descendants of the goddess ADITI or
Semele 279
 ADITYAS, all of whom take the role of sun gods
 was, in later times, enlarged to twelve, including
 Savitar. The god of the rising and setting sun.
 Color: golden. Attributes: club, prayer wheel and
 two lotuses.
 Saxnot
 Tutelary god. Saxon. He is mentioned beside
 Woden and Thunor as one of the deities to be
 renounced at Christian baptism. As Saxneat he
 was allegedly the founder of the Saxon royal
 dynasty in Essex. The name may derive from
 the word sahsginot meaning “companion of the
 sword.” He may also equate with the German
 god Tyr.
 S
 ˇay
 Minor god of destiny. Egyptian. Depicted
 wholly in human form. S ˇay is mentioned in the
 Ani papyrus as being present at the ritual of 
the weighing of the heart, in company with
 funerary goddesses including Meskhenet,
 S
 ˇEPSET and RENENUTET. In Greco-Roman 
times he was syncretized with the snake god
 Agathodaimon.
 Sebitti
 Group of minor war gods. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian). The children of the god ANU
 who follow the war god ERRA into battle. They
 are, in alternative traditions, of good or evil influ
ence. In Greek tradition they become the
 Pleiades.
 Securita
 Guardian goddess. Roman. She was invoked to
 ensure the continuing stability of the Roman
 empire.
 S
 ˇed
 Guardian god. Egyptian. Popular as a personal
 deity and often identified on protective amulets.
 Sedna
 Sea goddess. Inuit [Baffin Land]. The mother of
 all the creatures of the sea and invoked by fisher
men.
 Sefkhet-Abwy (she who has seven horns)
 Local goddess of libraries and writing. Egyptian.
 Probably a form of the goddess SESˇAT. Depicted
 in human form bearing a seven-pointed star or
 rosette on her head below a bow-shaped object.
 Sekhet-Hor
 Cow goddess. Egyptian (Lower). The foster
mother of the god HORUS and particularly
 invoked to safeguard cattle.
 Selardi
 Moon god. Urartian [Armenia]. The counterpart
 of the Mesopotamian deity SIN.
 Selene (radiant)
 Moon goddess. Greek. The daughter of HYPER
ION (a TITAN) and sister of the sun god HELIOS.
 The tutelary deity of magicians, she rides in a
 chariot drawn by two horses. According to legend
 she fell in love with the sleeping Endymion. She
 becomes largely syncretized with HEKATE and in
 Roman culture equates with the goddess LUNA.
 Semele (earth)
 Mother goddess. Greco-Roman but probably of
 Thracian or Phrygian origin. According to legend
280 Semnocosus
 she was the mortal daughter of Cadmos and
 became the mother of the god DIONYSOS (BAC
CHUS) after a brief liaison with ZEUS (JUPITER),
 also in mortal guise. Semele was burned to death
 on Olympus, unable to withstand the presence of
 Zeus in godly form, but was subsequently deified
 by him.
 Semnocosus
 God of war. Romano-Iberian. Popular locally
 with troops of the Roman legions who occasion
ally sacrificed prisoners to him.
 Senx
 Sun god. Bella Coola Indian [British Columbia,
 Canada]. The ruler of the lower heaven, Sonx, in
 which is situated the home of the gods, Nusmeta
 (the house of myths). The only deity to whom the
 Bella Coola pray and make offerings. Hunters
 throw small pieces of mountain goat or seal flesh
 into a sacrificial fire. Also Ta’ata (our father);
 Smai’yakila (sacred one).
 S
 ˇepset
 Local funerary goddess. Egyptian. Known chiefly
 at Memphis, where she appears as an attendant at
 the ritual of the weighing of the heart.
 Sequana
 River goddess. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). The tute
lary goddess of the Sequanae tribe. A pre-Roman
 sanctuary northwest of Dijon near the source of
 the Seine has yielded more than 200 wooden
 votive statuettes and models of limbs, heads and
 body organs, attesting to Sequana’s importance as
 a goddess of healing. During the Roman occupa
tion the site of Fontes Sequanae was sacred to
 her and was again considered to have healing and
 remedial properties. A bronze statuette of a god
dess was found wearing a diadem, with arms
 spread and standing in a boat. The prow is in the
 shape of a duck, her sacred animal, with a cake in
 its mouth. Also found were models of dogs, an
 animal specifically associated with healing
 through its affinity with the Greco-Roman physi
cian deity AESCULAPIUS.
 S
 ˇerida
 Mother goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 Became known as AYA in the Akkadian pantheon.
 Serket(-hetyt)
 Minor mortuary goddess. Egyptian. Known
 from the middle of the third millennium BC, she
 protects the throne of the king in the guise of a
 scorpion. She is depicted in human form wear
ing a headpiece in the form of a scorpion with
 its sting raised. In the Pyramid Texts she is the
 mother of the scorpion god NEHEBU-KAU. In
 her role as a mortuary goddess she is partly
 responsible for guarding the jars containing the
 viscera of the deceased. Although she is never
 identified as warding off the effect of scorpion
 stings, her influence has been regarded as effec
tive against other venomous attacks. Also Selkis
 (Greek).
 Sesa(naga) (remainder)
 Snake god or naga. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and
 Puranic). The great serpent lying in the primeval
 sea and encircling the world. The son of KASYAPA
 and KADRU. A many-headed attendant on VISˇNU
 who uses the snake as a couch on which to rest
 between cycles of the universe. Its many hoods
 overshadow and protect him. Not technically a
 deity but important enough in literature to be
 included here. Also Adisesa; ANANTA.
Ses ˇat
 SETH 281
 Goddess of libraries and the art of writing. Egypt
ian. Known from 2500 BC, or earlier, until the end
 of Egyptian history circa AD 400. She is depicted
 anthropomorphically bearing a seven-pointed star
 or rosette on her head, sometimes atop a wand and
 below a bow-shaped object. Early in her career she
 was associated with the ritual of “stretching the
 cord” during which boundary poles were rammed
 into the ground by the king before measuring out
 the foundations of a sanctuary. As a scribe she
 recorded the lists of foreign captives and their trib
utes. At Karnak in Upper Egypt and at Dendara she
 recorded the royal jubilees on a notched palm stem. 
See also SEFKHET-ABWY.
 Sese
 Chthonic goddess. Ngbandi [Democratic Repub
lic of Congo, central Africa]. One of seven deities
 invoked at sunrise each day.
 S
 ˇesmetet
 Egyptian goddess. 
See also SAKHMET.
 Seta
 Fertility goddess. Pokot and Suk [Uganda and
 western Kenya, East Africa]. The consort of the
 creator god TORORUT who is embodied in the
 Pleiades. Their children are ILAT, the rain god;
 ARAWA, the moon goddess; and Topoh, the
 evening star. The appearance of the Pleiades in the
 night sky marks the start of the planting season.
 SETH
 ORIGIN Egyptian. God of chaos and adversity.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP from 3000 BC or
 earlier until the end of Egyptian history, circa
 AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Set, Setekh, Setesˇ, SUTEKH, Suty.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT chiefly a sanctuary in Upper
 Egypt at Ombos-Naqada, but also in Lower
 Egypt, in the northeast of the Nile delta.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures, stone reliefs, wall
 paintings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts, coffin texts,
 Book of the Dead, etc.
 Seth is a deity who generally represents hostility
 and violence, but who has also claimed consider
able respect. His parents are GEB and NUT and
 his fellow siblings include ISIS, OSIRIS and NEPH
THYS, who at times is also seen as his consort.
 More typically he is linked with Semitic war god
desses including ANAT and ASTARTE. Legend has
 it that he tore himself violently from his mother’s
 womb. He is depicted in human form with the
 head of an animal that seems to bear faint simi
larity to an aardvark with erect ears and a long
 curving snout. He is also depicted in wholly ani
mal form, in which case the beast bears no real
 similarity to any living creature, but has a stiffly
 erect tail. Other animals symbolizing the god
 include the oryx, pig, boar and the hippopotamus
 when it is a disruptive element of the river. Seth
 is also represented by the crocodile (see Geb).
 Sometime during the middle of the third mil
lennium, in the II Dynasty, there was a break with
 the tradition whereby the kings of Egypt were
 linked with the god HORUS. The falcon symbol
ism of Horus was replaced with that of the crea
ture of Seth. Several Egyptian rulers followed his
 cult closely. Tuthmosis III in the XVIII Dynasty,
 for example, titled himself “the beloved of Seth.”
 In the Osirian legend first recorded in the Pyra
mid Texts and later popularized and embellished
 by the Greek writer Plutarch, Seth is the jealous
 adversary of his brother Osiris (see Osiris for
 details). Later he fought an eighty-year war of
 attrition with the son of Osiris, the falcon god
 Horus (see also Horus). During this time, the
282 Seyon
 implication remains that he was favored by the
 sun god and only forceful wrangling resulted in
 victory falling to Horus as rightful overlord of
 the two Egyptian kingdoms. A separate mythol
ogy credits Seth with defense of the sun god RE
 as he is about to be swallowed by Apophis, the
 perennially hostile serpent god of the under
world. The so-called Book of the Dead accounts
 Seth as the “lord of the northern sky” who controls
 the storm clouds and thunder.
 Rameses II, in a treaty with the Hittites,
 implied a fusion of Seth with the Hittite storm
 god TESˇUB.
 Seyon (the red one)
 Creator god. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern India
 and Sri Lanka]. An early deity associated particu
larly with hilly regions in parts of southern India
 and thought to live in trees. Also Muruga.
 S
 ˇezmu
 Minor god of wine and oil presses. Egyptian.
 Known from circa 3000 BC until the end of
 Egyptian history, circa AD 400. In later iconogra
phy he is depicted as a lion, but more generally is
 in human form. S ˇezmu had a definite cult follow
ing in the fertile Faiyum region of the Nile valley,
 but was probably represented in most sanctuaries,
 particularly where ritual unguents were made and
 stored. He is recognized in both benign and
 malevolent roles. In the latter he is reputed to
 squeeze human heads like grapes, but in benefi
cent mood he provides aromatic oils and oint
ments.
 Sga’na
 Sea god. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte Island,
 Canada]. Embodied in the killer whale (Orca).
 The universe is believed to be inhabited by super
natural beings called Sga’na Qeda’s for whom the
 land was first created. Also Masset San.
 Shadanana-Subrahmanya
 Form of the god KARTTIKEYA. Hindu (Puranic).
 The form possesses six heads and twelve arms.
 According to legend, the six heads arose because
 the fire god AGNI had an adulterous relationship
 with the six consorts of the risis (astral gods) who
 all needed to suckle the offspring. Like Kart
tikeya, he is usually depicted riding on a peacock.
 Shang Kuo-Lao
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, tradition
 has it that he was embodied as a bat which
 achieved immortality in human form. His sacred
 animal is an ass. Attributes include drum and
 drumsticks. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Shang Ti
 Creator god. Taoist (Chinese). 
See also YU HUANG SHANG TI.
 Shango
 Chthonic storm god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West
 Africa]. As an earth deity he was once a mortal
 man, the king of Oyo, who transformed himself
 into an immortal. According to tradition, during
 his life he breathed tongues of fire. He then
 ascended into the sky by climbing a golden chain
 and became the god of thunder and lightning. He
 is also god of justice, punishing thieves and liars.
 His consorts include OYA, Oshun and Oba. Cult
 followers of Shango are believed to be able to
 make lightning strike an adversary. In shrines to
 Shango, the image of the god is adorned with a
 ram’s head. Also SANGO.
Shani
 Shina-Tsu-Hime 283
 gShen-Lha-Odkhar
 Astral god and bringer of misfortune. Hindu
 (late). The cult of Shani evolved in about the
 eighth century AD with the advance of Indian
 astronomy. He is propitiated frequently to ward
 off ill-luck and may be depicted sitting on a lotus
 or riding in a chariot. Attribute: a staff.
 Shankpana
 Plague god. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa]. The
 son of SHANGO, he is credited with having once
 been a god of war who invaded the country (as a
 disease). He is particularly identified with small
pox. His symbol is the sesame plant which takes
 the form of a taboo and brings disease to those
 who take it into their house. A festival is held in
 September to propitiate Shankpana with sacri
fices of animals and fruit.
 Sheela Na Gig
 Mother goddess. Celtic (Irish). The primal earth
 mother closely associated with life and death. One
 of the rare depictions of Irish Celtic deities that
 have survived into the Christian era. She is shown
 naked, with large breasts, with her legs apart and
 holding open her vagina. The image frequently
 adorns walls of Irish churches. Also Sheila na
 Cioch.
 Shen Nung
 God of agriculture. Chinese. Known as the divine
 farmer. According to tradition, during his life
time he invented the plough and taught basic
 agriculture and the use of herbs. In a more
 destructive aspect, he is also the god of the hot
 winds. He is depicted with the head of an ox and
 is regarded by some authors as a successor to NU
 KUA. Also Shen Nong.
 God of light. Bon (pre-Lamaist) [Tibet]. In the
 ancient religion he is a creator deity from whom
 all other gods are engendered. In Lamaism he
 evolves into a god of wisdom.
 gShen-Rab
 Supreme god. Bon (pre-Lamaist) [Tibet]. In the
 ancient religion he is the remote and barely
 defined creator deity. Attributes include a lotus
 and swastika.
 Shichi-Fuku-Jin
 Gods of luck. Shinto [Japan]. The seven principal
 deities concerned with fortune: EBISU, DAIKOKU,
 BENTEN-SAN, BISHAMON, FUKUROKUJU, HOTEI
 and JUNROJIN. The group is often represented
 together on their treasure ship Takara-Bune,
 which carries various magical devices including a
 hat of invisibility, a roll of brocade, an inex
haustible purse, keys to the divine treasure house
 and so on.
 Shina-Tsu-Niko
 God of winds. Shinto [Japan]. The most senior of
 his group of wind deities, he disperses the morn
ing mists and brings soft rustling breezes. His
 consort is Shina-Tsu-Hime and the couple are
 extensively worshiped by farmers and seafarers.
 They were allegedly responsible for bringing
 about a miracle in the thirteenth century AD when
 they kept at bay, with off-shore winds, the army of
 Gengis Khan. They are honored in the main Ise
Jingu temple of Shintoism but their chief sanctu
ary is at Tatta, a small town in Yamamoto. Also
 Shina-Tobe-No-Mikoto.
 Shina-Tsu-Hime See SHINA-TSU-NIKO.
284 Shomde
 Si
 Shomde
 Creator god of localized observance. Kafir
 [Afghanistan]. Known from various villages in the
 southern Hindukush. Shomde is regarded either
 as equating or senior to the more generally rec
ognized god IMRA. According to observers he
 provides gold, silver and silk as well as butter,
 cheese, cream and flour. The main sanctuary was
 probably at the village of Dewa and in various
 wooden sculptures Shomde is depicted in human
 form. Also Wushum; Usum.
 Shong Li-Kuan
 Immortal being. Taoist (Chinese). One of the
 “eight immortals” of Taoist mythology, he was
 once a mortal being who achieved immortality
 through his lifestyle. Attributes include a fan
 which he waves over the dead to revive them. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Shong-Kui
 God of literature. Taoist (Chinese). According to
 tradition he committed suicide when he failed in
 his examinations. Also a guardian deity against
 demons, his attribute is a sword.
 Shou Lao
 God of longevity. Chinese. He originates as an
 astral deity but comes to head the heavenly min
istry responsible for setting the span of a person’s
 life. He is also known as Nan-ji Hsian Weng, “the
 ancient of the South Pole.” His sacred animal is
 the crane, embodiment of long life.
 Shurdi
 Storm god. Illyrian [Albania]. Believed to send
 thunder and lightning and revered into more
 recent times.
 Moon god. Chimu Indian (pre-Columbian)
 [coastal regions of Peru]. The head of the pan
theon and guardian of weather and of harvests.
 He is depicted subtended by a sickle moon,
 wearing a feathered crown and an armored 
projection on his back. May also be represented
 as a goddess.
 Sia
 God of perception. Egyptian. Minor deity
 depicted at RE’s right hand where he holds the
 papyrus of intellect. He travels in the sun god’s
 barque. According to legend he was one of several
 deities formed in drops of blood falling from Re’s
 penis.
 S
 ˇi’a
 Minor attendant goddess. Western Semitic
 (Phoenician). The personification of the holiness
 of sanctuaries of BAAL S ˇAMIN. In Hellenic times
 she may have become syncretized with TYCHE.
 Siddhi (accomplishment, success)
 Minor goddess of good fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A deity who grants favors. Sometimes
 associated with the elephant god GANESA or
 MAHA-GANAPATI, on whose knee she may sit. In
 earlier times she was described as a consort of
 BHAGA.
 Si’duku
 Mother spirit. Kamchadal [southeastern
 Siberia]. The daughter of KUTKHU, Si’duku is
 the consort of her brother TI’ZIL-KUTKHU and
 the mother of Amle’i. Amle’i married another
 unnamed daughter of Si’duku and fathered the
 Kamchadal race.
Siduri
 Sina 285
 Minor goddess of brewing. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian). Also identified with wisdom.
 Sif
 Corn goddess. Nordic (Icelandic) and Germanic.
 The consort of THOR. She is mentioned in the
 Eddaic Lay of Lokasenna and in the Lay of Har
barth. According to Snorri Sturluson she was
 originally a prophetess called Sibyl. She possesses
 great beauty and has long golden hair. Her sons
 are ULL and Loridi. According to tradition, LOKI
 cut off Sif’s hair in mischief, but when confronted
 and threatened by Thor, he had the dwarfs make
 her a magical hairpiece of pure gold which, when
 it touched her head, became a living part of her
 and grew.
 Sigyn
 Goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). The consort of
 LOKI and listed among the AESIR goddesses. Her
 son is Nari or Narfi. According to tradition,
 SKADI, the consort of NJORD, set a poisonous
 snake to drip poison on to a captive Loki but
 Sigyn collected most of the venom in a bowl and
 threw it away.
 Sikhandin (with a tuft of hair)
 Minor deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One 
of a group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Attributes: knife and sword.
 Sikhin
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among one of a series of medicine
 buddhas or SMAN-BLA. Typically depicted with
 stretched earlobes. Color: yellowish red.
 NOTE: the term also defines the symbolic use 
of fire.
 Silaparamita (perfection of character)
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: white. Attributes: 
floral prayer wheel and jeweled staff.
 Silma Inua
 Supreme god. Inuit. A remote and vaguely
 defined figure only rarely invoked or prayed to.
 Silvanus
 Minor god of woodlands and forests. Roman. Wor
ship of Silvanus seems largely to have been limited
 to northern Italy. He became incorporated into the
 Celtic pantheon where his symbolism includes a
 bill-hook, pots and hammers. His sacred animal is
 the stag. The name was extended to embrace
 groups of woodland deities, the Silvani or Silvanae.
 Si’mskalin
 Guardian spirit. Kamchadal [southeastern Siberia].
 One of two sons of KUTKHU.
 Sin
 Moon god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). Derived from the older Sumerian
 model of NANNA. His consort is NIKKAL (NIN
GAL). He is symbolized by the new moon and 
perceived as a bull whose horns are the crescent
 of the moon. Cult centers are identified at Ur,
 Harran and Neirab. Also Suen (archaic).
 Sina
 Moon goddess. Polynesian (Samoan). 
See also HINA.
286 Sindhu
 Sipe Gialmo
 Sindhu
 River goddess. Hindu (Vedic). Identified only in
 the Rg Veda and of unknown source.
 Singala
 Local god. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian. 
Mentioned only in name by the Babylonian 
king Nabonidus, worshiped at Taima and influ
enced strongly by Egyptian culture. 
See also SALM OF MAHRAM.
 Sinhanada (lion’s roar)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. A vari
ety of AVALOKITESVARA. Typically depicted with
 stretched earlobes and attended by a lion. Color:
 white. Attributes: cup, fly whisk, image of the
 AMITABHA on the crown, lotus, moon disc, rosary,
 skin, snake, sword and trident. Three-eyed. Also
 accounted among one of a series of medicine 
buddhas or SMAN-BLA.
 Sinivali
 Minor goddess of prosperity. Hindu (Vedic).
 Associated specifically with the boon of children.
 The mistress of the nuclear family. She is depicted
 as a matronly lady.
 Sins Sga’nagwai (power of the shining 
heavens)
 Supreme god. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. The god who gives power to all
 things.
 Siofn
 Goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). Listed by Snorri
 (Prose Edda) as one of the AESIR goddesses.
 Mother goddess. Bon (pre-Lamaist) [Tibet]. The
 so-called “queen of the world.” Her animal is a
 mule. Attributes: banner, bowl, parasol, swastika,
 sword and trident. Three-eyed.
 Sipylene
 Mother goddess. Smyrna (Anatolia) [west coast of
 Turkey]. The localized name of the great mother,
 worshiped in the Metroon sanctuary.
 Sirara
 Goddess of the Persian Gulf. Mesopotamian
 (Sumerian and Babylonian-Akkadian). In creation
 mythology she is given charge over the waters of
 the Gulf by the god ENKI.
 Sirona
 Local goddess of healing. Romano-Celtic (Gal
lic). Known from limited inscriptions in which
 she is usually associated with the god GRANNUS or
 with the Celtic APOLLO. A sculpture from
 Hochscheid in the Moselle basin in Germany
 describes her with a snake round her wrist reach
ing toward a bowl of three eggs in her left hand.
 She may also have a small lapdog. Some authors
 suggest she has sky associations. 
See also DIVONA and ONUAVA.
 Sirsir
 God of mariners. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). The guardian of boatmen.
 Sirtur
 Sheep goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian and
 Babylonian-Akkadian). Known from inscriptions
and passing comments in texts. Syncretized with
 Sitatara 287
 NINSUN.
 Sisyphos
 Sun god. Corinthian. Specifically the god of the
 faded sun, probably equating to the Hittite
 weather god TESˇUB.
 SITA (furrow)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India].
 Chthonic or earth goddess. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 300 BC and
 earlier through to present day times. 
SYNONYMS an avatara of LAKSMI.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze,
 but also in stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana of Valmiki and later
 Puranic literature.
 In Vedic mythology Sita is strictly an earth deity,
 born from a furrow and associated with plough
ing and ploughed fields. She appears as the con
sort of the rain gods INDRA and PARJANYA. She
 usually stands to the right of RAMA. In later
 times, effectively from AD 200 onward, Sita (see
 also RADHA) is the consort of Rama, one of the
 major reincarnations of the god VISˇNU, though
 she is generally eclipsed by the goddess Laksmi
 with whom she is seen as a separate aspect.
 Legend gives Sita an unhappy life, though she
 epitomizes the perfect Hindu wife. Early in her
 marriage to Rama she is abducted by the foreign
 god Ravana, who carries her off to Lanka [Sri
 Lanka], where he imprisons her in a garden.
 Maintaining total fidelity to her husband, she
 returns to him inviolate, but he is skeptical of
 her purity and rejects her. Eventually, when she
 has threatened to immolate herself through the
 inner fire of her purity, Rama grudgingly has her
 back, though only briefly. His doubts return and,
 pregnant, she is banished to exile where she gives
 birth to twin sons. Rama’s rejection finally takes
 its toll. Sita begs her mother, the earth, for sal
vation, whereupon a golden throne rises from
 the ground. She takes her place on it and
 descends forever while Rama is left eternally to
 mourn his loss. Attributes: blue lotus and a sin
gle braid of hair.
 Sitala(mata) (possibly meaning ‘mother cold’)
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of seven SAKTIS who in later Hinduism became
 regarded as of evil intent, inflicting sickness. Par
ticularly known from Bengal where she may be
 identified with the goddess KALI. Usually stand
ing naked upon a lotus or riding an ass. Alterna
tively symbolized by a stone on which a face is
 painted. Attribute: waterjar.
 Sitapatra (with a white umbrella)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 VAIROCANAand a female BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate. Color: white. Attributes: arrow, bow,
 hook, noose, parasol, prayer wheel and white
 staff. Sometimes three-eyed and three-headed.
 Sitatara (the ‘white Tara’)
 Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. Of mild dis
position, she is regarded as one of the forms of the
 goddess TARA and an emanation of AMOGHASID
DHI or VAIROCANA. In later times she became iden
tified as a female variety of AVALOKITESVARA
 PADMAPANI. By tradition she is the incarnation of
 a Chinese princess. Color: white. Attributes: arrow,
 blue or white lotus, bow, image of Amoghasiddhi,
 jewel, moon disc and rosary. Three- or seven-eyed.
288 S ˇIVA
 S
 ˇ IVA (the destroyer)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India]. Principal creative and
 destructive god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 300 BC, and
 probably earlier as Rudra, until present.
 SYNONYMS accredited with more than a thousand
 epithets in Hindu writings (see also BHAIRAVA,
 KHANDOBA).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Benares, etc.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze,
 but also in stone; reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana epic and Puranic
 texts.
 S
 ˇIVAis a deity with the linked roles of both creator
 and destroyer of life, more generally the latter. He
 personifies the inexorable passage of time and out
 of destruction he creates new life. He may have
 evolved from the Vedic storm god RUDRA, though
 he is now thought to be an older pre-Indo-Euro
pean deity whose attributes appear on seals from
 the Indus Valley civilization. His consort, or more
 precisely his female aspect, is Sakti, but he is also
 closely linked with the terrible KALI and the god
dess SATI.
 He is generally depicted in the role of an asce
tic with a blue-painted throat, attributed to hold
ing the primal poison HALAHALA in his throat
 before swallowing it to save mankind from its
 deadly effect. His sacred animal is the bull
 NANDI. He bears four arms (less commonly two)
 which hold a variety of attributes including a
 bow, a club to which is fastened a skull, a drum
 (damaru), representing the rhythm of creation,
 and a noose. He has a strong association with
 fire and may hold a ball of flame—the destructive
 corollary to creation. His symbol is the linga
 (phallus), often accompanied by the female yoni
 and these objects in stone may form the focus of
 worship.
 The Saivite sect envisage S ˇiva as creator, pre
server and destroyer and he is manifest in three
 aspects of his own divine power. As the ascetic,
 represented by the Yogi, he is in his destructive
 aspect. His consorts are Kali and DURGA. He
 destroys without emotion. The Yogi is naked,
 smeared with ashes and with matted hair, sitting
 under a banyan tree holding a beggar’s bowl. As
 the “lord of the dance,” NATARAJA, S ˇiva’s steps
 follow the rhythm of the universal forces. He
 dances in a circle of fire, treading upon the
 dwarfish figure who is the personification of
 ignorance (see also VAMANA). In this aspect he
 can be drawn as a jolly figure, a drinker of wine
 and a hunter. As the linga, the form of S ˇiva which
 devotees generally worship, he is the symbol of
 creative powers. In his cosmic capacity he
 appears as Nataraja.
 Legend has it that S ˇiva lives in Kailas, a place
 beyond the Himalaya. The Lingayats, a particu
lar Saivite sect founded in the twelfth century AD,
 may carry a small stone linga mounted in a silver
 box and worn round the neck or arm. Chiefly
 centered on southern India, sanctuaries to S ˇiva
 are often home to devadasis, troupes of dancing
 girls who also serve as cultic prostitutes. S ˇiva also
 enjoys popular worship as a domestic deity. 
See also PANCANANA.
 Sivini
 Sun god. Urartian [Armenia]. Known from
 inscriptions.
 Sivottama (highest Sˇiva)
 Minor god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of 
a group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Skadi
 Goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). One of the AESIR
 goddesses. The daughter of the giant Thiassi and
Sobek 289
 consort of the god NJORD. By tradition she lives
 apart from her husband, he preferring the coast
 and she the mountains. She is described as “ski
 lady,” a huntress who travels on skis and hunts
 game with a bow. She is constantly at odds with
 the god LOKI and on one occasion, when he had
 been captured and held down with stones, she
 tried to poison him by suspending a poisonous
 snake over his face. Loki’s consort SIGYN saved
 him by collecting the venom in a bowl.
 SKANDA
 ORIGIN Hindu (Epic and Puranic) [India]. God of
 war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 300 BC or 
earlier until present.
 SYNONYMS Kumara; KARTTIKEYA; SUBRAHMANYA;
 many other minor epithets.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze,
 but also in stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Ramayana and Mahabharata
 epics; Puranic texts. 
Regarded as the leader of the divine army of gods.
 One of the sons of S ˇIVA, his birth is accounted in
 bizarre fashion. The gods persuaded S ˇiva and
 PARVATI to curb their incessant love-making. The
 vast quantity of unused semen then had to be dis
posed of. After shuttling it between fire (AGNI)
 and water (Ganges), BRAHMA placed it on the
 mountain of the rising sun where, after ten mil
lennia, it became Skanda.
 His consorts include KAUMARI (DEVASENA) and
 VALLI, and his sons are Sakha, Visakha and
 NAIGAMEYA. Perceived as virile and youthful, his
 name may signify the emission of semen. He is
 also seen as “one who jumps” while fighting and
 his sacred animals include the peacock and the
 cockerel, the latter being both aggressive and a
 jumper. Attributes: banner, cockerel, hatchet,
 peacock feather and staff. He may also carry a
 wider assortment of objects and weapons. As
 Karttikeya he is often depicted bearing six heads
 and twelve arms.
 Smertrios
 God of war. Celtic (Gallic). The tutelary deity of
 the Treveri. Allegedly the subject of a votive mon
ument which depicts a bearded god holding a
 snake.
 Smrti (tradition)
 Minor god. Buddhist (Mahayana).
 Snulk’ulxa’Is
 Archetypal god. Bella Coola Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. The old ruler of mankind,
 who provided a conflict of benign and malevolent
 treatment. He was superseded by the gods SENX
 and ALK’UNTA’M.
 So
 Weather god. Ewe and Hua [Togo and south
eastern Ghana, West Africa]. An emanation of
 the combined personae of the deities SOGBLEN
 and SODZA.
 Sobek (rager)
 God epitomizing the might of the pharaohs.
 Egyptian. Said to be the son of NEITH, the cre
ator goddess of Sais. He is depicted as a crocodile
 wearing a plumed headdress, or as a part-human
 hybrid. The crocodile imagery suggests an ability
 to attack and kill with sudden speed. Sobek’s cult
 was extensive along the Nile valley, but was par
ticularly prominent in the fertile Faiyum region.
 Near Aswan in Upper Egypt a sanctuary dedi
290 Sodasi
 cated to Sobek identifies him as the consort of
 HATHORand the father of KHONSU. Also Suchos
 (Greek).
 Sodasi (girl of sixteen)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of a group of MAHAVIDYAS personifying the SAKTI
 of S ˇIVA. Aspects include Divyaratri.
 Sodza
 Sky god. Ewe [Togo, West Africa]. Propitiated
 with yams and the sacrifice of a white sheep in an
 annual festival and his priests pray to him weekly
 to send rain. The priests wear white robes.
 Sogblen
 Messenger god. Ewe and Hua [Togo and south
eastern Ghana, West Africa]. Considered to
 relay the prayers of devotees to the great 
gods and to return with blessings or punish
ment. Generally benevolent, bringing the boon
 of fertile crops and children. He is propitiated
 with the sacrifice of a white sheep in an annual
 festival.
 Sogbo
 Storm god. Fon [Benin, West Africa]. The sibling
 of the gods LISA and MAWU, he controls thunder
 and lightning and is a god of fire and rain.
 Sohodo-No-Kami
 God of scarecrows. Shinto [Japan]. Identified as
 the apotheosis of the actual scarecrow made by
 Japanese farmers and known as a kakashi. Tradi
tionally it is constructed from reeds and wears a
 round peasant hat. According to the sacred texts,
 “though his legs do not walk he knows everything
 under heaven.”
 Sokar
 Chthonic underworld god. Egyptian. Guardian
 deity of the necropolis at Memphis with possible
 fertility connotations and with strong links to
 OSIRIS beside whom he is also perceived as a
 restored god of the dead. He is also syncretized
 with the Memphis creator god PTAH in the Old
 Kingdom (circa 4500 BC), where he may have
 originated as a god of various crafts associated
 with the manufacture of funerary trappings. He is
 depicted either as a hawk on a boat, or in human
 form with the head of a hawk and an elaborate atef
 crown (see Osiris). Sokar also enjoyed a major
 cult at Thebes where, in an annual festival cele
brating the healthy continuation of the divine
 kingship, he was conveyed in an elaborate barque.
 Also Sokaris (Greek).
 Soko
 Sky god. Nupe [Nigeria, West Africa]. The name
 refers specifically to the dark sky at the begin
ning of the rainy season which stimulates the
 growth of crops.
 Sol (1)
 Sun god. Roman. Known by the full title of Sol
 Indiges, meaning “the indigenous Sol,” which may
 suggest a purely Roman cult on the Quirinal Hill,
 but there are also inferences that this deity is of
 more ancient origin. Coins from southern Italy
 depicting the god with a radiate image date back
 to circa 200 BC but he rose to particular promi
nence during the republican period. His festival
 was celebrated annually on August 9. Nero had a
 huge statue of himself, as Sol, erected in Rome
SOPHIA 291
 and the emperor Aurelian elevated Sol to
 supreme god in the Roman pantheon when
 Jupiter Conservator gave way to Sol Invictus (the
 unconquered sun). Sol may sometimes be linked
 with AURORA, the goddess of dawn.
 Sol (2)
 Sun goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). One of the
 AESIR goddesses. The daughter of Nubdilfaeri
 (Mundilferi). She drives the horses which draw
 the sun chariot across the sky.
 Soma (essence)
 Minor god. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 The deification of the sacred yellow drink soma.
 Also the consort of SURYA. Regarded in later Hin
duism as the dikpala of the northern direction and
 as one of a group of VASU deities answering to the
 god INDRA. Attributes: hook, lotus and prayer
 wheel. 
See also CANDRA.
 Somaskanda
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Aspect of 
the god S ˇIVA. Of uncertain origin, but possibly
 representing a composite trio of S ˇ iva with 
his consort UMA (PARVATI) and his son SKANDA (as
 a boy). Four-armed. Attributes of S ˇiva: ax, corpse
 and hatchet. Attribute of Uma: lotus. Attributes
 of Skanda: book, headdress, mango fruit and
 ornament.
 Somnus
 Minor god of sleep. Roman. He equates with
 the Greek god HYPNOS. According to legend
 he is one of the two sons of NYX, goddess of
 night, and lives in a remote cave beside the
 Lethe river. He is depicted by Ovid dressed in
 black but with his robe scattered with stars,
 wearing a crown of poppies and holding a gob
let of opium juice. His attendant is MORPHEUS
 and he oversees the spirits of dreams and night
mares. Particularly noted from the art of the
 Lacedaemonians who placed statues of Somnus
 and MORS side by side.
 Somtus See HARSOMTUS.
 Sopedu
 Guardian deity. Egyptian. A god who protects the
 eastern border, usually depicted as a falcon or a
 Bedouin with a headdress of tall plumes. His cult
 was followed chiefly at Saft el-Henna in the Nile
 delta. Sopedu is linked in Pyramid Texts with the
 hawk god HORUS. He also acted as a patron deity
 of the turquoise mines in the Sinai with inscrip
tions at Serabit el-Khadim. Also Sopdu.
 SOPHIA (wisdom)
 ORIGIN Greek principle adopted by Gnostic
 Christians. Primordial female force in the 
cosmos.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP unknown origins
 to circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS PISTIS SOPHIA.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT undefined cells within the
 area of early Christian influence.
 ART REFERENCES none.
 LITERARY SOURCES Plato and other Greek
 philosophers; Nag Hammadi codices.
 According to the Gnostic Christian writers whose
 thoughts were a syncretization of Jewish, ancient
 Near Eastern and Greek philosophical elements,
 SOPHIA descended from PISTIS (faith) before the
292 Sore-Gus
 Soului
 formation of the cosmos. She is described as a like
ness of Pistis and seems to be the primeval ele
ment of light. She acts as a mediator or “veil”
 between the immortal beings (Archons) and
 mankind. She is also the challenger to the primor
dial “shadow” which becomes chaos. In the Nag
 Hammadi text On the Origin of the World, Pistis
 Sophia generates YALDABAOTH, the father or
 “prime parent” of the seven androgynous beings
 who rule the heavens in the likeness of the original
 authorities so that the likeness may persist forever. 
See also Pistis and Yaldabaoth.
 Sore-Gus
 Sky god. Hottentot [Namibia, southern Africa].
 The sun god, embodied in the shape of a golden
 ram with long fluffy wool.
 Sors
 God of luck. Roman. Derived from the Greek
 model of TYCHE, he is less prominent in the pan
theon than the goddess FORTUNA.
 Sothis [Greek]
 Astral goddess. Egyptian. She heralds the Nile
 inundation as the personification of the star 
Sirius which rises coincidentally in the dawn 
sky in July. She is depicted as a nude figure wear
ing the conical white crown of Lower Egypt 
surmounted by a star. Late in Egyptian history
 she becomes largely syncretized with ISIS. Also
 Sopdet (Egyptian).
 Souconna
 River goddess. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Guardian
 of the river Saône and known chiefly from
 inscriptions at Chalon.
 Vegetation god. Hua [southeastern Ghana, West
 Africa]. A benevolent deity who can bestow
 wealth as well as good harvests. He is also god 
of medicine and of the sounds of music. His 
devotees wear white and daub white chalk on
 their faces. His symbol is the cowrie shell.
 Spandaramet
 Chthonic goddess. Pre-Christian Armenian.
 Concerned with the fertility of the earth and with
 death. Under Christian influence, her name
 equates with hell.
 Spes
 Goddess of hope. Roman. Foundations of a sanc
tuary were commenced by the emperor Tiberius,
 linked with a similar building dedicated to the
 god JANUS. She is associated with gardens and
 depicted as a young woman bearing a bunch of
 flowers.
 Spiniensis
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Mentioned by
 the writer Fabius Pictor, he is the deity responsi
ble for the uprooting of thorn bushes.
 Sravana (lame cow)
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Also Srona.
 Sravistha
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
Sri(devi) (prosperity)
 Subhadra 293
 Stanitakumara
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). An early
 name which was syncretized with that of LAKSMI
 to form Sri-Laksmi.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a
 group of DHARMAPALA with terrible appearance and
 royal attire who protect the Dalai Lama. A manifes
tation of the goddess DEVI sometimes seen in com
pany with VIS ˇNU, when conventionally she stands on
 his right. Her breasts are covered by a narrow band
 of cloth. She may be invoked to provide wealth (see
 also Laksmi). Her retinue includes the goddesses of
 the seasons and her animal is a mule. Color: blue.
 Attributes: chiefly cup and staff but on occasion sev
eral other objects including a pink lotus. Three-eyed
 and may be three-headed. Also LHA MO.
 3. Goddess. Jain.
 Srikantha (beautiful throat)
 Minor deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of a
 group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA, in
 this instance referring to his darkish blue neck.
 Also one of the EKADASARUDRAS or eleven forms
 of RUDRA. Attributes: hatchet and trident.
 Srivasumukhi (excellent-faced)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of VASUDHARA.
 Srivasundhara (earth)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of VASUDHARA.
 Srividyadevi (of excellent knowledge)
 Minor goddess. Hindu. A deity of terrifying
 appearance. Attributes: necklace of bones, teeth.
 God. Jain [India]. One of the deities grouped
 under the general title of BHVANAVASI (dwelling in
 places). Of youthful appearance.
 Sterculius
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Concerned
 with the manuring of the fields.
 Stribog
 God of winds. Slav. Mentioned in the Chronicle of
 Nestor, and the euphemism “Stribog’s grandchil
dren” refers to the winds.
 Styx
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Greek. A daugh
ter of OKEANOS and TETHYS, and mother of
 NIKE. The deity of the river Styx beside which the
 gods swear their oaths.
 S
 ˇu
 Primordial god of the air. Egyptian. According to
 the genealogy of the priests of Heliopolis, he is
 the first born of the creator sun god ATUM and by
 his sister TEFNUT is the father of the chthonic
 god GEB and the sky goddess NUT. S ˇu is typically
 represented in human form standing over the
 supine form of Geb and holding Nut aloft with
 his raised arms. He can also, as one of several
 manifestations of the “eye of RE,” be represented
 as a lion, as can his sister.
 Subhadra (very splendid)
 Goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The daugh
ter of VASUDEVA and sister of KRSNA. She may
 appear standing beside JAGANNATH.
294 Subhaga
 Subhaga
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Subhamekhala (with a marvellous girdle)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Subrahmanya
 Minor warrior deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). 
A form of KARTTIKEYA which is depicted with 
six heads and twelve arms. Also SHADANANA
SUBRAHMANYA; see also SKANDA.
 SUCELLOS (the good striker)
 ORIGIN Romano-Celtic (Gallic).
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization, circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS Sucellus.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various.
 ART REFERENCES bronze and stone sculpture and
 reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES votive inscriptions.
 Sucellos carries a long-handled hammer and a
 cup or dish which is arguably the equal of the
 Irish Celtic Dagda’s caldron. He is known 
principally from the valleys of the Rhone and
 Saône and is often coupled in art and votive
 inscriptions with the river goddess NANTO
SUELTA. In at least two instances, Unterseebach
 [Lower Rhine] and Varhely [Romania], Sucellos is
 accompanied by a raven and a three-headed dog
 suggesting the Roman guardian of the under
world, Cerberus, and a link with funerary 
practices. Sucellos also has associations with 
the woodland god SILVANUS, suggesting a 
fertility connotation and, in France, is associated
 both with springs and with dogs and snakes,
 which suggest healing and rejuvenating powers
 (dogs were more generally linked with the Roman
 healing god AESCULAPIUS than with death).
 Suddhodana (having pure rice)
 Primordial god. Buddhist. The father of the BUD
DHA. The deified king of the Sakya tribe from
 which the Buddha descended; his consort is
 MAYADEVI.
 Sudrem
 Weather god. Kafir [Afghanistan]. Little is known
 of this deity. He was created from the breath of the
 supreme god IMRA. Alternatively he sprang from a
 juniper branch. His wife is the goddess Nangi
Wutr and he is the father of the major fertility god
dess DISANI. He is depicted as a great golden buck
 with horns reaching to the sky. As a deity specifi
cally concerned with rain, he lives in a sacred lake,
 Sudrem Sur, at which all wild animals must drink
 once to survive. Also Sujum; Sudaram; Sataram.
 Sudurjaya (very difficult to conquer)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of sev
eral deified BHUMIS recognized as different spir
itual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: yellow. Attributes: emerald and staff.
 Sugriva (beautiful strong neck)
 Monkey god. Hindu. The son of the sun god and
 leader of the monkey army which, according to
 epic tradition, supported RAMA.
 Suijin
 Collective name for water gods. Shinto [Japan].
 These deities are worshiped at shrines at the
ˇ ulman(u) 295
 S
 sources of irrigation canals, lakes and ponds.
 They are depicted as snakes, eels and fish and
 invoked particularly by women. Chief among
 them is the goddess MIZU-HA-NO-ME.
 Sukarasya (face of a sow)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist.
 Sukla-Tara
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Considered to
 be an emanation of all the DHYANIBUDDHAS
 (meditation buddhas), but also regarded as being
 indistinguishable from the “white Tara” (see also
 TARA). Color: white.
 Sukra (bright)
 Astral god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). The per
sonification of the planet Venus and the tutor of
 the demons. He may, on occasion, be represented
 as female, owing to the fact that he was once made
 to swallow his attendant Kaca and then restore
 him to life. Color: white. Rides in a golden or sil
ver chariot drawn by eight or ten horses. Attrib
utes: book, prayer wheel, purse, staff, treasure and
 waterjar.
 Suksma (very small)
 Minor deity. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of a
 group of emancipated VIDYESVARAS (lords of
 knowledge) considered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Attributes: hatchet and trident.
 Suku
 Creator god. Ovimbundu [central Angola, West
 Africa]. He created the sky, the rivers and moun
tains, and the people on earth.
 Sukuna-Hikona
 God of healing. Shinto [Japan]. With the god 
O-KUNI-NUSHI-NO-MIKOTO, he established the
 various methods of healing diseases and the means
 for control of, and protection against, wild beasts,
 snakes, insects, etc. He is also worshiped as a tute
lary god of traders, both maritime and on land. He
 is the KAMI of communications and, during the
 Japanese Empire period, was often installed by the
 authorities in the temples and shrines of con
quered lands. He is worshiped in Buddhism as
 Yakushi-Bosatsu-Hyojin.
 Suleviae
 Goddesses of passage. Romano-Celtic (Gallic).
 Collective name for female deities associated with
 crossroads.
 Sulini
 Minor goddess. Hindu. Of terrible appearance.
 Animal: lion. Attribute: trident.
 Sulis
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Romano-Celtic.
 Also a deity concerned with knowledge and
 prophecy. The tutelary goddess of the thermal
 waters at Bath, England, she is closely linked with
 the Roman goddess MINERVA.
 S
 ˇullat
 Minor god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). An attendant of the sun god S ˇAMASˇ.
 S
 ˇulman(u)
 Chthonic and fertility deity. Mesopotamian
 (Babylonian-Akkadian) and western Semitic. Also
296 S ˇulmanitu
 Sumbha
 identified as a war god. Found in Assyria circa
 1400 BC to 700 BC and known from Bronze Age
 inscriptions at Sidon.
 S
 ˇulmanitu
 Fertility goddess. Western Semitic. Concerned
 with love and war; also has underworld connec
tions. Recognized chiefly at Sidon, but included
 in the Ugaritic pantheon. Thought by some
 authors to be the immediate derivation of the bib
lical “Shulamite woman” (Vetus Testamentum Song
 of Solomon 6:13).
 S
 ˇul-pa-e (youthful radiance)
 Fertility and astral god. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). Identified as the personification of the planet
 Jupiter and, in one list, the consort of the mother
 goddess NINHURSAG˜A.
 S
 ˇulsaga
 Astral goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumerian).
 S
 ˇul-utula
 Tutelary god. Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Known
 only as a personal deity to Entemena, king of the
 city of Eninnu.
 Sumalini (well-garlanded)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Sumati (very wise)
 Deification of literature. Buddhist. One of a
 group of DHARANIS. Color: yellow. Attributes: ear
 of rice and staff.
 Goddess. Buddhist. A female dikpala or guardian 
of the nadir direction (her male counterpart is
 SUMBHARAJA). Color: blue. Attribute: snake
 noose.
 Sumbharaja
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the nadir
 direction. Color: blue. Attributes: jewel, lotus,
 staff and sword. Three-headed.
 Sumiyoshi-No-Kami
 Sea gods. Shinto [Japan]. A general name for
 guardian deities of seafarers, including fishermen,
 they include the three MUNAKATA-NO-KAMI.
 They are the focus of special worship by the
 Jingu-Kogo sect, whom they escorted to Korea.
 They are also patrons of poets and have a purify
ing role. The main sanctuary is the Sumiyoshi
 Taisha at Osaka.
 Summamus
 Storm god. Etruscan. Specifically a deity respon
sible for lightning and thunderbolts. A sanctuary
 was dedicated to him in Rome.
 S
 ˇumugan
 God of the river plains. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). In creation mythology he is given charge by
 the god ENKI over the flat alluvial lands of south
ern Mesopotamia.
 Sun Hou-Shi
 Monkey god. Chinese. He emerged from 
a cosmic egg conceived out of emptiness 
and engendered by the wind; he provides 
SURYA (1) 297
 various arts and skills to mankind. According 
to tradition he discovered the elixir of immor
tality in a fruit which he consumed. Also Sun
 Wu-Kong.
 Sundara (charming)
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). A prosperous
 aspect of the god S ˇIVA.
 2 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An
 attendant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Suparikirtitanamasri  (lord with a celebrated
 name)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among a series of medicine buddhas
 or SMAN-BLA. Typically depicted with stretched
 earlobes. Color: yellow.
 Suparnakumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHVANAVASI (dwelling in places). Of
 youthful appearance.
 Sura (wine)
 Goddess of wine. Hindu. She is considered to be
 of terrible appearance and has no consort. Three
eyed.
 Suraksini
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Surangama (bright colored)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). A BODHISATTVA or
 buddha-designate. Color: white. Attribute: sword.
 Suresvara (lord of the gods)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of the
 eleven EKADASARUDRAS or RUDRA gods. Attrib
utes: arrow, ax, bell, bow, bowl, club, drum, hook,
 iron rod, lotus, prayer wheel and trident.
 Survarnabhadravimalaratnaprabhasa
 (the bright, pure jewel splendor)
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted as one of a series of medicine buddhas
 or SMAN-BLA. Typically depicted with stretched
 earlobes. Color: yellowish white.
 SURYA (1)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic)
 [India]. Sun god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1700 BC until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Diakara (day-maker); Grahapati (king
 of planets); Surya Narayana.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT the “Black Pagoda” shrine at
 Konorak in Orissa; also throughout India.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures from circa AD 600,
 including erotic reliefs at the “Black Pagoda,”
 usually in bronze, less frequently in stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda and other Vedic
 texts, Epic and Puranic texts.
 In the Vedas Surya is a prominent figure, not only
 the personification of the sun in the heavens and
 of cosmic order, but also a source of infinite
 knowledge. Considered to have been introduced
 from Iran, he is head of the ADITYA group of sun
 deities. He is the son of Dyaus and ADITI and his
 consorts include LAKSMI, CHAYA and SANJNA. His
 children include MANU, REVANTA, YAMA and
 YAMUNA, and a sun goddess also called SURYA.
 Surya is depicted either standing or seated,
 sometimes driving a one-wheeled chariot drawn
298 Surya (2)
 across the sky by up to seven horses. He bears
 four arms. In northern India he is usually found
 wearing knee-length boots. In the south he goes
 barefoot. Attributes: band, club, conch, knife, two
 lotuses, prayer wheel, staff with lion, trident and
 war drum. May be three-eyed.
 Surya (2)
 Sun goddess. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 The daughter of the sun god SURYA. According
 to legend she was courted by all the gods, 
but won finally by the twin ASVIN gods with
 whom she rides in a chariot. Other legends
 account her consorts to include SOMA and
 PUSAN. She is the essence of the cosmos. Also
 Savitr.
 SUSANO-WO
 ORIGIN Shinto [Japan]. Chthonic and
 weather god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 600 and
 probably earlier until present.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout Japan.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Nihongi and Kojiki texts.
 The brother of the sun goddess AMATERASU, he
 was born from the nose of the primordial creator
 god IZANAGI and represents the physical, mate
rial world. His consorts include the goddess
 Inada-Hime, by whom he fathered a son, Ya
Shima-Ji-Nu-Mi, the eight-island ruler, and the
 goddess Kamu-O-Ichi-Hime. His offspring by
 her include the great harvest god O-TOSHI-NO
KAMI.
 The appearance of Susano-Wo and Amaterasu
 in the creation account marks the final separation
 of the ethereal cosmos into a vast multiplicity of
 material objects. The god and goddess are
 obliged to join each other in order to survive,
 but while Susano-Wo recognizes the necessity
 for this union, Amaterasu finds his excesses
 repugnant. When he tries to enter her house in
 the heavens she hides herself away in a cave from
 which she emerges only after considerable effort
 and ruse on the part of the other members of the
 pantheon. Susano-Wo is expelled from heaven
 and takes up residence on earth where he first has
 to beg food from the goddess O-Ge-Tsu-Hime
No-Kami. 
See also AMATERASU.
 Susinak
 Local god. Elamite [Iran]. The patron deity of
 Susa.
 S
 ˇutekh
 Weather god. Hittite and Hurrian. Of Hurrian
 origin, but incorporated into the Hittite state
 pantheon. Identified on the seal of a Hittite/
 Egyptian treaty between Hattusilis II and Rame
ses II in 1271 BC. Probably another name for the
 god TES ˇUB.
 Svadha (invoked with offerings)
 Minor goddess. Hindu. The daughter of DAKSA
 and PRASUTI. Sometimes identified as a consort of
 RUDRA or AGNI.
 Svantevit
 God of war. Pre-Christian Latvian. Mentioned
 by the author Saxo Grammaticus as riding upon
 a white horse and holding a cornucopia, he is
 known locally from the island of Rügen. Also a
 guardian deity of crops.
Svaraghosaraja
 Syamatara 299
 Svati
 Physician god. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Accounted among a series of medicine buddhas
 or SMAN-BLA. Typically depicted with stretched
 earlobes. Color: yellowish red.
 Svarozic
 Sun god. Slav. Also the giver of fire and the smith
 god, and further linked with marriage. Also Svarog.
 Svasthavesini (entering a natural state)
 Goddess. Hindu. One of terrifying appearance.
 Color: scarlet. Attribute: drum. Three-eyed and
 three-headed.
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter 
of DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA). Also
 Nistya.
 Syamatara (the “black Tara”)
 Goddess. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. A gracious
 form of the goddess TARA. Also an emanation of
 AMOGHASIDDHIand a form of AVALOKITESVARA.
 Color: black, possibly green. Attribute: blue
 lotus.
6
 T
 Tabiti
 Goddess of fire. Scythian. Also the guardian deity
 of all animals. The Romans syncretized her with
 the hearth goddess VESTA.
 Ta-Bitjet
 Scorpion goddess. Egyptian. In incantations against
 scorpion bite she is identified as a consort of the 
god HORUS. Her blood, which flowed when Horus
 ruptured her hymen, is considered to possess mag
ical and remedial properties against the poison.
 Taditkara (lightning)
 Goddess of light. Buddhist. Color: green. Attrib
utes: lightning in the form of a creeper. Also
 Vidyddhara.
 T’ai Shan
 God. Chinese. The senior deity in the heavenly
 ministries, he is the immediate controller of the
 earth and mankind. Titled the “god of the eastern
 peak.” Also Di Zang.
 T’ai Yi
 Primordial god. Chinese. The spirit of the 
universe who was present before the cosmos was
 created and who is known as the great unity.
 During the Sung Dynasty (AD 960-1279) he was
 elevated to the head of the ranks of astral gods
 and he is embodied in the Pole Star, otherwise
 identified in Chinese mythology as the Purple
 Planet.
 Tailtiu
 Goddess. Celtic (Irish). By tradition the consort
 of Eochaid of the TUATHA DE DANANN, she is
 the foster mother of the god LUG and associated
 with the Lughnasad festival on August 1.
 Taipan
 Snake god. Australian aboriginal. His consorts
 include the snake goddesses Mantya, Tuknampa
 and Uka. He is revered mainly by tribal groups
 living on the western seaboard of the Cape York
 peninsula in northern Queensland. Taipan has
 the typical attributes of many other Australian
 snake gods, including the rainbow snake. He
 exercises judgment over life or death and pos
sesses great wisdom, a universal characteristic of
 serpents. He is able to kill or cure and is the deity
 who originally fashioned the blood of living
 things during the Dreamtime. The imagery of
 the snake god is closely linked with aboriginal
 300
Tam Kung 301
 shamanism and with the healing rituals of
 shamans.
 Tai-Sui-Jing
 God of temporal time. Chinese. The apotheosis
 of the planet Jupiter which orbits the sun in a
 twelve-year cycle.
 Tajin
 Generic title for a group of rain gods. Totonac
 (Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Worshiped by a mod
ern tribe and believed to reside in the ruins of El
 Tajin, a classic Veracruz site whence they control
 the thunder clouds. 
See also TLALOC.
 Taka-Mi-Musubi-No-Kami (high august
 producing wondrous deity)
 Primordial creator being. Shinto [Japan]. The
 second of the deities listed in the sacred Kojiki
 text. He appeared in the Takama-No-Hara (plain
 of high heaven) after AME-NO-MINAKA-NUSHI
NO-KAMI. A remote and vaguely defined being,
 he was-born alone in the cosmos and hides him
self from mankind.
 Taka-Okami-No-Kami (great producer of
 rain in the mountains)
 Rain god. Shinto [Japan]. Specifically the god of
 rain generated in mountains. A god of fierce rain,
 also known as the “god of the dividing of the
 waters.”
 See also KURA-OAKMI-NO-KAMI.
 Take-Mika-Dzuchi-No-Kami
 God of thunder. Shinto [Japan]. One of the RAI
JIN gods of thunder, storms and rain, he is also
 one of the warrior deities who guarded Prince
 NINIGI on his descent from heaven to earth. A
 tutelary god of swordsmen and judoka artists. 
See also FUTSU-NUSHI-NO-KAMI.
 Takkiraja
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the
 southeastern quarter. Color: blue. Attributes: blue
 staff, jewel, lotus staff, sword and trident. Also
 Vajrajvalanalarka and Vajrayaksa.
 Takotsi Nakawe (our grandmother growth)
 Chthonic vegetation goddess. Huichol Indian
 (Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The earth and all plant
 life belong to her and she is regarded as the mother
 of the gods, particularly of the fire god TATEVALI.
 She is very old and is invoked to give the boon of
 longevity. Her sacred tree is a form of fig, the salate.
 Taksaka
 Snake god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One of a
 group of seven MAHANAGAS. Attributes: rosary,
 swastika and waterjar.
 Ta’lab
 Moon god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian. He
 also has an oracular function.
 Tam Kung
 Local sea god. Chinese. A deity with control over
 rain and water and who extinguishes fires. His
 worship is restricted to a coastal region between
 Hong Kong and Macau. According to tradition
 he was an eight-year-old boy emperor, the last of
 the Sung Dynasty, who committed suicide by
 jumping over a cliff in the face of Kublai Khan’s
 advance in AD 1276. His attendant is Ho Wang,
 who joined him in death. A sanctuary in Coloane
302 Tama-No-Ya
 Town in Macau, sited at the end of a narrow
 peninsula, is dedicated to him. 
Tam Kung is strongly linked with the symbol
ism of dragons and the shrine contains a sacred
 whale rib which is modeled into the shape of a
 dragon boat. The god is normally depicted seated
 and holding a bell, which may be interpreted as an
 instrument of warning or as a means of calling
 attention to the voices of the ancestors.
 Tama-No-Ya
 God of jewelers. Shinto [Japan]. The deity who
 made a complete string of curved jewels nearly
 three meters long, one of the lures which enticed
 the sun goddess AMATERASU from the cave where
 she hid herself.
 Tamats Palike Tamoyeke (our eldest
 brother walking everywhere).
 God of wind and air. Huichol Indian (Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The messenger of the gods, he
 also put the world into its present form and shape.
 Tanara
 Sky spirit. Yakut [central Siberia]. The apotheo
sis of the sky.
 Tana’ao
 Weather and sea god. Polynesian [Marquesas
 Islands]. A local variation on the Polynesian god
 TANGAROA, known as a god of winds and a tute
lary deity of fishermen.
 Tane(mahuta)
 God of light. Polynesian (including Maori). One
 of the children of the prime parents RANGINUI
 and PAPATUANUKU. Also god of trees, forests and
 boat-builders, his consort is the goddess HINE
AHU-ONEand he is the father of HINE-ATA-UIRA
 who descended to the underworld to become the
 goddess of death, HINE-NUI-TE-PO. In other
 traditions he is the consort of Hine-Nui-Te-Po,
 whom he joins each evening when he descends to
 the underworld. It was he who proposed that his
 parents should be pushed apart rather than
 slaughtered. In Maori culture Tanemahuta, like
 all deities, is represented only by inconspicuous,
 slightly worked stones or pieces of wood and not
 by the large totems, which are depictions of
 ancestors. Also KANE (Hawaiian).
 Tangaroa
 Sea and creator god. Polynesian (including Maori).
 The deity responsible for the oceans (moana) and
 the fish (ika) within them. In Hawaiian belief 
he was the primordial being who took the form 
of a bird and laid an egg on the surface of the
 primeval waters which, when it broke, formed the
 earth and sky. He then engendered the god of light,
 ATEA (cf. TANE). According to Tahitian legend, he
 fashioned the world inside a gigantic mussel shell.
 In a separate tradition Tangaroa went fishing
 and hauled the Tongan group of islands from the
 depths of the ocean on a hook and line. He is the
 progenitor of mankind (as distinct from
 TUMATAUENGAwho has authority over mankind). 
His son Pili married SINA, the tropic bird and
 they produced five children from whom the rest
 of the Polynesian race was born. In Maori culture
 Tangaroa, like all deities, is represented only by
 inconspicuous, slightly worked stones or pieces of
 wood and not by the large totems which are
 depictions of ancestors.
 Tango
 God. Polynesian [Hervey Islamds] The third
 child of the primordial mother VARI-MA-TE
Tara 303
 TAKERE, he was plucked from her right side and
 lived in Enua-Kura, the land of the red parrot
 feather immediately below the home of TINIRAU
 in the world coconut.
 Ta’ngwanla’na (greatest one in the sea)
 Supreme sea god. Haida Indian [Queen Char
lotte Island, Canada]. His home is said to be in
 the deeps.
 Tanit
 Moon goddess. Phoenician and Pontic (Carthagin
ian). Known largely from inscriptions at various
 sites along the North African coast and linked with
 the goddess ASTARTE. Her symbol is a triangular
 device with horizontal bars supporting a moon disc.
 Both deities are described as “ladies of the sanctu
ary.” Tanit was the supreme goddess at Carthage,
 known as the “face of BAAL,” until usurped by the
 Roman goddess JUNO; she survived under the name
 CAELESTIS. The goddess CERES was also worshiped
 in the TANIT temple at Carthage. Also Tenit.
 Ta-No-Kami
 Agricultural deity. Shinto [Japan]. A generic name
 for several gods of crops and harvests. May also be
 identified as a mountain KAMI.
 Tanu’ta
 Earth spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia]. A
 guardian of the earth and its plants and animals,
 Tanu’ta is the consort of YINE’ANE’UT (in other
 legends she is married to the son of the supreme
 being TA’YAN).
 T’ao Hua Hsiennui (peach blossom girl)
 Goddess. Chinese. The spirit of the peach blos
som and the deity of the second spring month.
 She is primarily a guardian deity who defends
 against evil. A figure of the goddess was tradi
tionally brought by a mother for the protection of
 a bride and she is closely connected with mar
riage, which involves potential danger for the
 family with the introduction of an unknown ele
ment. The wedding ceremony includes a ritual
ized kidnapping of the bride. The figure is also
 placed in a doorway to ward off evil. 
T’ao Hua Hsiennui  is depicted in warlike pos
ture wearing a skirt with four black flags, each
 representing an army and bearing the character
 for wealth. She holds a sword by its scabbard end.
 One of her cult centers, the Temple of Jade Vacu
ity in Cheung Chan, holds a celebrated statue in
 which she is depicted holding the scabbard only.
 Taoki-Ho-Oi-No-Kami
 God of carpenters. Shinto [Japan]. One of the
 gods who built the beautiful sacred hall designed,
 in part, to lure the sun goddess AMATERASU from
 the cave in which she hid herself. 
See also HIKO-SASHIRI-NO-KAMI.
 Tapio
 Hunting god. Pre-Christian Finnish. Believed to
 inhabit forests and invoked before a hunt.
 Tar
 Chthonic earth god. Tiv [Nigeria, West Africa].
 Engendered by the creator god AONDO, Tar is
 depicted as a prostrate figure with his head toward
 the east, comparable with the Egyptian god GEB.
 Tara (power of hunger)
 1. Goddess. Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic).
 May originally have had astral connotations, since
 the word can be interpreted as “star.” One of a
304 Taranis
 Taru
 group of MAHAVIDYAS personifying the SAKTI of
 S
 ˇ IVA. She may also be the consort of CANDRA
 (SOMA). Aspects include Krodharatri. Attributes:
 knife, skin, skull, snakes and sword. Three-eyed.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana and
 Vajrayana). An epithet of the mother of the BUD
DHA, Maya. Also one of a series of female deities,
 the DHYANIBUDDHASAKTI considered to be aspects
 of the Sakti of AVALOKITESVARA or of AMO
GASHIDDHI. She may also be the Sakti of ADIBID
DHAand of the various DHYANIBUDDHAS, in which
 case she is characterized by their colors. These
 Taras thus become “White Tara” and so on. 
See also BHRKUTI, EKAJATA, KURUKULLA,
 SITATARA and SYAMATARA. In Tibetan Buddhism
 she is known as sGrol-ma.
 Taranis
 Thunder god. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Known
 only from limited inscriptions, but may emulate
 the Germanic god DONAR and is possibly the
 same as Taranucos. The Romans equated him
 with JUPITER and a Jupiter Tanarus inscription at
 Chester in England may refer to Taranis. His
 symbol is a spoked wheel and he is presumed to
 be the object of savage rites. The modern Breton
 word for thunder is taran. Also Taranos.
 Tarhunt
 Weather god. Hurrian (Anatolian). Known from
 inscriptions as the father of TELEPINU.
 Tari Pennu
 Chthonic goddess. Indian (Khond). Created by
 the sky gods BOORA PENNU and BELLA PENNU
 so as to conceive the rest of the pantheon. She 
is identified as a malevolent deity, the subject of 
regular propitiation human sacrifices in the 
notorious meriah rituals in Orissa province.
 Weather god. Hittite and Hurrian. Known 
from inscriptions and equating with ISˇKUR. 
Probably of Hurrian origin. 
See also TARHUNT; TELEPINU.
 Tarvos Trigaranos
 Bull god. Romano-Celtic (Gallic). Known
 chiefly from a four-sided monument erected
 near Paris by boatmen of the Seine during the
 reign of the emperor Tiberius. It depicts ESUS,
 VULCANUS, JUPITER and Tarvos. As Tarvos Tri
garanos, he is drawn as a bull with three cranes
 on its back and can be seen at such places as
 Dorchester in England. The bull may alterna
tively bear three horns.
 Tasenetnofret
 Goddess. Egyptian. The consort of HORUS as
 HAROERIS and regarded as a minor emanation of
 the goddess HATHOR. Known from the sanctuary
 of Kom-Ombo.
 Tas ˇmetu(m)
 Goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian).
 The consort of the god NABU.
 Tas ˇmis ˇu
 Attendant god. Hittite and Hurrian. The sibling
 of the weather god TES ˇUB.
 Tate
 Creator god. Sioux [USA]. He appears in the
 clouds, his voice is the wind and he controls the
 changing of the seasons. He is also the guide of
 the spirits of the dead. He is the deity with whom
 the Sioux shamans intercede.
Tate Hautse Kupuri (mother north water).
 Tatosi 305
 Rain and water goddess. Huichol Indian
 (Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Similar to TATE
 KYEWIMOKA, but also responsible for mists 
and fogs.
 Tate Kyewimoka (mother west water)
 Rain and water goddess. Huichol Indian
 (Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Appears in lightning
 and is said to resemble a red snake. She lives in a
 deep gorge with caves, in Santa Catarina, and
 brings the rain from the west. Her animals
 include deer and ravens and she is also the god
dess of the corn.
 Tate Naaliwahi (mother east water)
 Rain and water goddess. Huichol Indian
 (Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Appears in lightning
 and brings rain from the east. She lives in a deep
 gorge with caves, in Santa Catarina.
 Tate Oteganaka (mother corn)
 Corn goddess. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The mother of the sun god TAYAU.
 Tate Rapawiyema (mother south water)
 Rain and water goddess. Huichol Indian (Meso
american) [Mexico]. Similar to TATE KYEWIMOKA,
 but also the patron goddess of Laguna de Mag
dalena, where she is believed to take the form of
 a water lizard.
 Tate Velika Vimali
 Sun goddess. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Perceived as a young girl or as a royal
 eagle who holds the world in her talons and
 guards it. In human form the night sky with its
 stars are her dress.
 Tatenen (exalted earth)
 Chthonic god. Egyptian. Originates as a vegetation
 god from Memphis, the apotheosis of the Nile silt
 which appears after the inundation has subsided.
 As a vegetation god, he is depicted anthropomor
phically with green face and limbs and wearing a
 crown with plumes subtended by ram’s horns. By
 the time of the Old Kingdom (twenty-seventh to
 twenty-second centuries BC) he is recognized as an
 emanation of the god PTAH, involved in the cre
ation process and mentioned on the Shabaka Stone
 (Memphis), where he is described as “father of the
 gods” and is perceived as an androgynous being.
 He also protects the royal dead.
 Tatevali (our grandfather)
 God of fire. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Also a deity of life and health, perceived
 as a shaman who prophesies and cures disease. He
 is the tutelary god of shamans and is said to have
 built the first Huichol temple with the god
 TATOSI. His animals include the macaw, royal
 eagle, cardinal bird, puma and opossum.
 Tathatavasita (control of the such-ness)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group of
 VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spiritual
 regeneration. Color: white. Attribute: white lotus.
 Tatosi (great grandfather deer tail)
 God of fire. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A deity regarded as the son of TATEVALI,
 having been created from the plumes of his father,
 but also the chief god of deer. His sacred animal
 is the white-tailed hawk. Also Mara Kwari.
306 Tatqa’hicnin
 Tatqa’hicnin (root man)
 Vegetation spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 A vaguely defined being who is chthonic and lives
 under the ground, presumably controlling edible
 roots and their availability.
 Taumata-Atua
 Vegetation god. Polynesian (including Maori).
 He presides over the fields and may be the 
god Rongomatane under an alternative name. In
 Maori culture Taumata-Atua, like all deities, is
 represented only by inconspicuous, slightly
 worked stones or pieces of wood and not by the
 large totems, which are depictions of ancestors.
 Tawa
 Creator god. Pueblo Indian [USA]. The apothe
osis of the sun and father of the tribe.
 TAWERET (the great one)
 ORIGIN Egyptian. Goddess of childbirth. 
KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP probably circa 2500
 BC until the end of Egyptian history circa AD
 400.
 SYNONYMS Thoueris (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no obvious cult centers, but
 represented in the Karnak complex at Thebes.
 ART REFERENCES a favorite subject for amulets
 and perforated vases.
 LITERARY SOURCES generally in texts including
 magical spells.
 Taweret is a goddess who enjoyed popularity
 among rank-and-file Egyptians and whose pro
tection was sought particularly by women in
 pregnancy. She is depicted either in human form
 or as a hybrid with the head of a hippopotamus,
 human breasts and swollen belly, leonine limbs
 and a crocodile tail. This unusual aspect is
 intended to frighten off malignant forces before
 and during childbirth. Taweret often holds the
 SA symbol of protection clasped over her vulva.
 Talismanic vases are fashioned in the shape of the
 goddess, with holes at the nipples through which
 milk could be poured during rites.
 Her benign nature contrasts with that of SETH,
 often depicted as a male hippopotamus, an animal
 whose destructive behavior in the river and adja
cent fields was well known.
 Tawhaki
 Heroic god. Polynesian and Maori. A descendant
 of the creator god Rehua and grandson of Whati
tiri, the goddess of thunder, Tawhaki is the third
 child of Hema and Urutonga. He is the younger
 sibling of the goddess Pupu-mai-nono and the
 god Karihi. In some Polynesian traditions
 Tawhaki is thought of as a mortal ancestor whose
 consort was the goddess Tangotango on whom he
 fathered a daughter, Arahuta. Tawhaki’s father
 was killed during tribal warfare with a mythical
 clan known as the Ponaturi and he himself was
 the subject of jealous rivalry concerning the god
dess Hine-Piripiri. During this time attempts
 were made to kill him. He fathered children by
 Hine-Piripiri, including Wahieroa, who is gener
ally perceived as being embodied in comets.
 Tawhirimatea
 God of winds. Polynesian (including Maori). One
 of the children of the prime parents RANGINUI and
 PAPATUANUKU. He was uniquely opposed to the
 separation of his mother and father, sky and earth,
 at the time of the creation of the cosmos, and in
 consequence spends his time harassing and trou
bling mankind. In Maori culture Papatuanuku, like
 all deities, is represented only by inconspicuous,
 slightly worked stones or pieces of wood and not by
 the large totems, which are depictions of ancestors.
Ta’xet
 Tecciztecatl 307
 Te-Manava-Roa (long-lived)
 God of death. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. The deity responsible for those
 who die violently. 
See also TIA.
 Ta’yan
 Supreme being. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 An indefinite character living somewhere in the
 zenith and generally out of touch with ordinary
 mortals. His consort is Supervisor Woman, Lap
na’ut and his son is Cloud Man, YA’HALAN. He
 conducts business with the physical earth through
 his majordomo Big Raven, QUIKINNA’QU. 
See also TENANTO’MWAN.
 Tayau (father sun)
 Sun god. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. According to tradition, he was created by
 the ancient shamans, who threw the youthful son
 of the corn mother TATE OTEGANAKA into an
 oven in full ceremonial attire. He traveled under
ground and emerged in the east as the sun. In
 late May, the Huichol sacrifice a sheep and a
 turkey in a ritual fire, after which they sing all
 night until sunrise. Also Tau; Taverik.
 Tayau Sakaimoka
 Sun god. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. The deity of the setting sun in the west,
 regarded as the assistant of TAYAU.
 Te-Aka-la-Roe (root of all existence)
 Creator being. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. Per
ceived in the form of a giant worm, this being is
 one of three spirits which govern and ensure the
 permanence of the universe. He lives in the low
est part of the root of the coconut shell which
 represents the world.
 Creator being. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. Per
ceived in the form of a giant worm, this being is
 one of three spirits which govern and ensure the
 permanence of the universe. He lives in the high
est part of the root of the coconut shell which
 represents the world.
 Te Kore (the void)
 Primordial being. Polynesian (including Maori).
 The personification of the darkness of chaos
 before light came into being. Usually coupled
 with TE PO, the unknown night.
 Te Po
 Primordial being. Polynesian (including Maori).
 The personification of the night which existed in
 chaos before the creation of light. Usually cou
pled with TE KORE, the void.
 Te-Tanga-Engae (breathing)
 Creator being. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. Per
ceived in the form of a giant worm, this being is
 one of three spirits which govern and ensure the
 permanence of the universe. He lives in the mid
dle part of the root of the coconut shell which
 represents the world.
 Tecciztecatl (conch shell lord)
 Moon god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. In cosmogony, when on the fifth day of cre
ation the gods sat in judgment to elect the new
 sun god, NANAHUATL and Tecciztecatl cremated
 themselves in the sacred fire. The heart of
 Nanahuatl ascended to become the new sun and
 that of Tecciztecatl became the moon. Tradition
 suggests that Nanahuatl is diseased and impover
ished but of great courage, while Tecciztecatl is
308 Tefnut
 Teisbas
 wealthy and a coward. Alternatively, the pair are
 sons of QUETZALCOATL and of TLALOC and were
 hurled into the fire by their fathers. Also one of
 the group classed as the TEZCATLIPOCA complex.
 NOTE: eventually all the gods sacrificed them
selves for mankind.
 Tefnut
 Primordial goddess of moisture. Egyptian.
 According to the genealogy laid down by the
 priests of Heliopolis, Tefnut was created out of
 the breath or spit of the creator sun god ATUM.
 She is the sister of S ˇU, god of the air, and the
 mother of GEB and NUT. Her main cult sanctu
ary was at Heliopolis. Tefnut, like S ˇu, can become
 one of several manifestations of the “eye of RE” in
 which case she appears as a lion, or in human
 form but with a leonine head. According to the
 Pyramid Texts, she creates pure water from her
 vagina. In a different context she takes the form of
 a snake encircling a scepter.
 Tegid Foel
 Water goddess. Celtic (Welsh). One of a pair with
 CERIDWEN, identified by the poet Taliesin.
 Teharon(hiawagon) (he who holds heaven
 in his hands)
 Creator god. Mohawk Indian [USA and Canada].
 He engendered the world and all living things
 and is invoked by shamans to provide good health
 and prosperity. His adversary is the demonic fig
ure Tawiskaron, symbolizing darkness.
 Teicauhtzin (younger brother)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A patron god of Mexico and one of the
 group classed as the HUITZILPOCHTLI complex.
 Tutelary god. Urartian [Armenia]. Known from
 inscriptions.
 Tejosnisa (sharp)
 God. Buddhist. Apparently connected with the
 guardian deities or dikpalas in the southeastern
 quarter. Color: whitish red. Attribute: sun disc.
 TELEPINU
 ORIGIN Hittite and Hurrian (Anatolia) [Turkey].
 Vegetation and fertility god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1800 BC or
 earlier until 1100 BC or later.
 SYNONYMS Telipuna.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT associated with at least four
 cities in the Turus region, including Nerik, but
 also known down into the Syrian plain.
 ART REFERENCES seals and seal impressions;
 sculptures; monumental rock carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES texts from Boghazkoy, etc.
 Telepinu is a fertility god, the son of TESˇUB or,
 in alternative tradition, TARU, who brings thun
der, lightning and rain. He may be of Hurrian 
origin. He goes missing and is rediscovered to
 symbolize the annual demise and restoration of
 nature.
 The story of his disappearance is told in several
 differing narratives, and his role is sometimes
 taken by the weather god Tesˇub. Essentially the
 legend describes how Telepinu departs from the
 Hittite kingdom in a rage with boots on the
 wrong feet. The sun god gives a feast for the
 thousand gods of Hatti, but is unable to feed all
 the guests because there is not enough food in
 the land. First an eagle, then Tesˇub himself, go
 out to search. Finally the goddess HANNAHANNAS
 sends a bee which finds and stings the sleeping
 Telepinu, provoking still further rage in nature
Terra Mater 309
 (the Finnish legend of the hero Lemminkainen
 tells a comparable story). Telepinu eventually
 returns home, calmed, and nature returns to
 prosperity.
 The god may have received a form of tree wor
ship in which a hollow trunk was filled with har
vest offerings.
 Teliko
 God of hot winds. Bambara [Mali, West Africa].
 According to tradition the water god FARO chal
lenged him in a primordial struggle and smashed
 him against a mountain.
 Teljavelik
 Creator god. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. He
 engendered the sun god SAULE and is described as
 the heavenly smith.
 Tellus
 Chthonic primordial earth mother. Roman. A
 corn deity, generally regarded as benevolent, but
 also a goddess of the dead. Enemy armies were
 offered to her and cursed in her name. Both she
 and the corn goddess CERES were propitiated
 with human sacrifice. Also TERRA MATER.
 Telpochtli (male youth)
 Omnipotent god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A universal and generally malevolent
 power. One of the group classed as the TEZ
CATLIPOCA complex.
 Tenanto’mni
 Creator spirit. Chukchee (eastern Siberia]. An
 indefinite and remote character living somewhere
 in the zenith of the sky. He created the world
 which was then transformed into its present state
 by the raven-like majordomo KU’URKIL.
 Tenanto’mwan
 Creator spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 Identified particularly with the reindeer-hunting
 Koryak on the Taigonos peninsula. An indefinite
 and remote character living somewhere in the
 zenith of the sky. He created the world which was
 then transformed into its present state by
 QUIKINNA’QU. Tenanto’mwan is the name always
 used when addressing the creator in incantations. 
See also YA’QHICNIN.
 Tepeyollotl (hill heart)
 Minor chthonic or earth god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the TEZCATLIPOCA complex. He was
 originally an earthquake god, symbolized by the
 jaguar and later adopted into the Aztec pantheon.
 Tepoztecatl
 Minor fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the
 Ometochtli complex concerned with the maguey
 plant and the brewing of the alcoholic drink
 pulque.
 Terminus
 God of passage. Roman. Embodied in boundary
 marker stones. He was celebrated in the Termi
nalia festival on February 23.
 Terra Mater 
Chthonic primordial earth mother. Roman.
 Derived from Greek model. 
See also TELLUS.
310 TESUB
 TESUB
 ORIGIN Hittite and Hurrian (Anatolia) [Turkey].
 Weather god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1800 BC or
 earlier until circa 1100 BC or later. 
SYNONYMS TES ˇUP and possibly S ˇUTEKH. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Hattusas (Boghazköy);
 Arinna; many other sanctuaries in the Taurus
 region and northern Syrian plain. 
ART REFERENCES seals and seal impressions;
 sculpture; rock carving.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform and hieroglyphic
 texts from Boghazköy and elsewhere.
 Te sˇub is the most important deity in Hittite state
 religion, although he may be subservient to the
 Sun God(dess) of ARINNA. Principally a weather
 god, as befits a mountainous region experiencing
 frequent storms and otherwise changeable cli
mate. Also a god of battle and “king of heaven,
 lord of the land of Hatti.” His consort is generally
 identified as HEBAT. According to legend, Tesˇub
 is involved in a typical confrontation battle with
 the forces of disorder in the form of a dragon,
 Illuyankas. He defeats the dragon, thus symbol
izing the re-invigoration of the earth after winter
 and the triumph of life over death. The drama
 seems to have been enacted in a New Year spring
 festival of Purulliyas. 
The king of the Hittite kingdom was Tesˇub’s
 high priest. A fragmented document describes a
 ritual in which the statue of the god is taken, in
 company with temple prostitutes, to a Tarnu (cul
tic or bath) house in a sacred grove where various
 rites are performed over it. Tesˇub sometimes
 plays the role of the missing vegetation god (see
 TELEPINU). Sculptures at Malatya identify ram
 sacrifices. Tesˇub is depicted holding a bow and
 standing on a horned animal or in a chariot drawn
 by bulls. 
Te sˇub was imported into Greece during the
 Mycenaean period (circa 1500-1200 BC). Bronze
 statuettes of the god have been discovered at
 Mycenae, Tiryns, Phylakopi and Delos.
 Teteo Innan Teteo (gods their mother)
 Minor god of fire. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A paternalistic deity associated with
 fire. One of the group classed as the XIUHTE
CUHTLI complex.
 Teteoinnan
 Goddess of curers and medical diviners. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The head of
 the group classed as the Teteoinnan complex.
 Teteoinnan-Toci
 Goddess of midwives. Aztec (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. Known locally in the Valley 
of Mexico and invoked by women in childbirth.
 One of the group classed as the TETEOINNAN
 complex.
 Tethys
 Sea goddess. Greek. One of the TITANS, the
 daughter of OURANOS and GAIA and both the 
sister and the consort of OKEANOS.
 Tetzahauteotl (god of fearful omen)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. A patron god of Mexico and 
one of the group classed as the HUITZILPOCHTLI
 complex.
 Tetzahuitl (fearful omen)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A patron god of Mexico and one of the
 group classed as the HUITZILPOCHTLI complex.
Teuhcatl (he of Teutlan)
 TEZCATLIPOCA 311
 Local god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Also a hunting god and one of the
 group classed as the Mixcoatl complex.
 Teutates
 Local tribal deity. Romano-Celtic (Gallic).
 Known only from limited inscriptions. Teutates
 may be less the name of a deity than an epithet
 meaning “great.” According to the Roman writer
 Lucan, he is one of three Celtic gods encoun
tered by Caesar’s army in Gaul and the object of
 savage rites in which victims were drowned in
 sacrificial lakes. He may equate with a British god,
 Totatis. He becomes assimilated variously to
 Mercury or MARS. Also Teutatis.
 Tewi’xilak
 God of goat-hunters. Dza’wadeenox Indian
 [British Columbia, Canada]. The eldest son 
of the supreme god QA’WADILIQALA. Said to 
kill goats with great ease and feed the tribe.
 Attributes include a head band of red cedar
 bark.
 Tezcacoac Ayopechtli (mirror serpent 
tortoise bench)
 Birth goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. An aspect of XOCHIQUETZAL. One of
 the group classed as the TETEOINNAN complex.
 TEZCATLIPOCA (smoking mirror)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Sun god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to 
AD 1500, but probably much earlier. 
SYNONYMS Moyocoya.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures; murals; codex
 illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 According to creation mythology, the great
 mother in the thirteenth heaven became preg
nant and the 400 star gods who were jealous of
 her child plotted to destroy it at birth. They were
 restrained in a cavern, however, until the moment
 when Tezcatlipoca emerged, fully armed, from
 his mother and destroyed his enemies. His only
 ally was his sister COYOLXAUHQUI, who was lost
 in the battle and whose head the god hurled into
 the heavens to live there as the moon. Alternative
 tradition describes Tezcatlipoca as the product of
 the self-created primordial beings TONACATE
CUHTLI and TONACACIHUATL.
 He presides over the first of the five world ages
 personified by the sun 4 OCELOTL. He is also the
 ruler of the tenth of the thirteen heavens known
 at the time of the Spanish conquest, Teotl Iztacan
 (the place of the white god).
 Tezcatlipoca and QUETZALCOATL are, in some
 contexts, antagonists, but alternatively they work
 together to restore the shattered universe and
 initiate the fifth (present) sun. Tezcatlipoca
 transformed himself into an avatara MIXCOATL
CAMAXTLI, the “red Tezcatlipoca” (also said to 
be his son), to create fire. He is also the great
 magician who dragged the earth mother from
 the primordial waters in the form of a huge 
alligator, CIPACTLI. In the struggle she bit off 
his left foot, but to prevent her from sinking
 back into the waters of creation he tore out her
 lower jaw.
 Tezcatlipoca is the patron deity of young war
riors and is capable of excesses of cruelty. A sac
rificial victim was chosen annually and killed by
 having his heart torn out.
 The god is perceived in various aspects and col
ors, according to the position of the sun. In the
 east he is yellow or white, in the south blue (see
312 Tezcatlipoca-Itztlacoliuhqui
 Thatmanitu
 also HUITZILPOCHTLI), in the west red and in the
 north black.
 Tezcatlipoca-Itztlacoliuhqui
 Temple deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of four described in the codices
 Borgia, Cospi and Fejervary-Mayer. 
See also TONATIUH, CENTEOCIHUATL and
 MICTLANTECUHTLI.
 Tezcatzoncatl
 Minor fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the Ome
tochtli complex concerned with the maguey plant
 and the brewing of the alcoholic drink pulque.
 Thab-Iha
 Hearth god. Bon (pre-Lamaist) [Tibet]. Color:
 red. Attribute: a snake in the form of a noose.
 Thakur Deo
 Local god. Hindu. Known from various villages
 in northern India. His consort is DHARTI MATA.
 May appear with a white horse. Also Thakkur.
 Thalna
 Goddess of childbirth. Etruscan. Depicted as a
 youthful woman, often associated with the sky
 god TIN.
 Thanatos
 Minor god of death. Greek. According to legend,
 he is one of the two sons of NYX, the goddess of
 night, and lives in a remote cave beside the river
 Lethe which he shares with his twin brother 
HYPNOS, god of sleep.
 Local goddess of healing. Western Semitic. Rec
ognized chiefly at Sidon, but also included in the
 Ugaritic pantheon.
 Thea
 Goddess. Greek. One of the TITANS, consort of
 HYPERION and mother of the sun god HELIOS
 and of the goddesses EOS (dawn) and SELENE
 (moon). Also Theia.
 Theandros
 God. Pre-Islamic northern Arabian. Known only
 from Greek and Roman inscriptions.
 Themis
 Goddess of justice and order. Greco-Roman. A
 daughter of the sky god OURANOS and earth
 mother GAIA, though not classed as one of the
 Titans. A consort of ZEUS and the mother of 
the Horae and Moires. She is the impartial deity
 who sits blindfolded in Hades and judges the
 souls of the dead to determine whether they will
 pass to the Elysian fields or to the fires of Tar
tarus. Attended by three lesser judgment 
deities, AEACOS, MINOS and RHADAMANTHOS.
 The guilty are handed over to the Furies—the 
Dirae, Erinyes or Eumenides. At Rhamnus in
 Attica, Themis was accorded a sanctuary built 
in the sixth century BC beside which that of
 NEMESIS, goddess of indignation, was built in the
 fifth century.
 Thesan
 Goddess of the dawn. Etruscan. Also invoked at
 childbirth, since she brings new life into the world
 each day with her light.
Thetis
 THOTH 313
 Goddess of rivers and oceans. Greek. One of the
 daughters of NEREUS, Thetis takes responsibility,
 with OKEANOS, for the oceans and rivers. She is
 among the lesser known deities; according to
 mythology she is a mermaid, but she is particu
larly significant as the mother of Achilles by an
 unnamed mortal. According to legend she
 attempted to render him immortal by immersing
 him in the waters of the Styx. She failed because
 the heel by which she held him had remained dry.
 His education she entrusted to the centaur Chi
ron. She was surrounded by attendant sea crea
tures known as Nereids and after Achilles’s death
 she returned to the ocean depths.
 THOR (thunder god)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). Primarily god of war
 but also a deity of the sky, storms, sea journeys
 and the administration of justice.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period circa
 AD700and earlier, until well into the Christian
 era, probably until AD 1100 or later.
 SYNONYMS HORAGALLES (Lappish); Thunor
 (Anglo-Saxon).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Uppsala (Sweden); Dublin
 (Ireland); many others throughout the Nordic
 region.
 ART REFERENCES small sculptures and reliefs;
 probably the subject of other anonymous 
carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose
 Edda (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); votive
 inscriptions; place names.
 Thor is one of the more important AESIR sky gods
 in Norse religion, the chief defender of the realms
 of Asgard. His mother is said to be lord, the prima
 materia of earth, and he lives in the hall Bilskirnir.
 He probably achieved greater popularity than
 OTHIN. Described as a massive red-bearded
 champion wearing iron gloves and a girdle of
 might, and wielding a short-handled hammer,
 Mjollnir, which creates lightning when struck
 against stone and becomes a thunderbolt when
 thrown. He may also carry an ax and both may
 represent fertility symbols. The swastika, thought
 to derive from the ax, becomes associated with
 him and he may be further symbolized by a sacred
 gold or silver arm-ring.
 Thor possesses a prodigious appetite for food
 and drink. He rides the heavens in a chariot
 drawn by two goats, Tanngniost and Tanngrisnir,
 whose wheels cause the sound of the thunder. He
 is strongly linked with trees and sacred groves.
 The name Thor is the origin of Thursday.
 THOTH
 ORIGIN Egyptian. God of the moon and of 
wisdom.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3000 BC until
 the end of Egyptian history circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS Djeheuty (archaic).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Khemnu [el-Ashmunein] or
 Hermopolis (Greek). Also in the Sinai, in
 Nubia and in the Dakhleh oasis in the western
 desert.
 ART REFERENCES sculpture; stone reliefs; wall
 paintings, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Pyramid Texts; coffin texts,
 etc.
 Thoth is the patron deity of scribes and of knowl
edge, including scientific, medical and mathe
matic writing, and is said to have given mankind
 the art of hieroglyphic writing. He is important as
 a mediator and counselor among the gods and is
 the scribe of the Heliopolis ENNEAD pantheon.
 Thoth is described in some inscriptions as a son
 of RE, but according to mythology he was born
 from the head of the god SETH. He may be
 depicted in human form with the head of an ibis,
314 Thuremlin
 wholly as an ibis, or as a seated baboon some
times with its torso covered in feathers. His
 attributes include a crown which consists of a
 crescent moon surmounted by a moon disc.
 Thoth is generally regarded as a benign deity.
 He is also scrupulously fair and is responsible not
 only for entering in the record the souls who pass
 to the afterlife, but of ajudicating in the Hall of the
 Two Truths. The Pyramid Texts reveal a violent
 side of his nature by which he decapitates the
 adversaries of truth and wrenches out their hearts.
 Thuremlin
 God of passage. Australasia. Local deity of several
 tribes in New South Wales. Said to oversee the
 transition from adolescence to manhood. The ini
tiate was taken away by the god, “killed,” restored
 to life and endured a tooth being knocked out to
 signify the arrival of adulthood and full incorpora
tion into the society of the tribe. Also Daramulun.
 Tia (death by violence)
 God of death. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. Those who are about to die a
 violent death are said to hear him groaning about
 the camp and see him as a headless corpse with
 blood flowing endlessly from his severed neck.
 He flies through the air. 
See also TA’XET.
 TIAMAT
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian)
 [Iraq]. Primordial creator goddess.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 2000 BC until
 circa 200 BC.
 SYNONYMS none. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Babylon. 
ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae; glyptics,
 etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES cuneiform texts, particularly
 the creation epic Enuma Elisˇ.
 Tiamat is the power of the ocean waters and is
 intimately involved with the Babylonian creation
 story. She combines with the underground fresh
 waters of APSU to give birth to eleven monstrous
 beings and is said to have been enraged by the
 death of Apsu at the hands of ENKI and at the
 behest of a group of gods headed by MARDUK. In
 revenge she forms other deities in the primordial
 cosmos into a rival group and chooses, as her sec
ond consort, the minor god Kingu to lead her
 army against Marduk. Marduk ultimately splits
 her in two, making the vault of heaven out of one
 half, using her eyes as the sources of the Tigris
 and Euphrates, and heaping the mountains over
 her head.
 Tiberinus
 River god. Roman. The deity of the river Tiber.
 His consort is one of the Vestal Virgins sacrificed
 by drowning. His sanctuary was built on an island
 in the river and, until some time during the
 Republican period, all bridges across the river
 were made wholly of wood so as not to offend
 him. The adverse connotations of iron are unclear,
 but its use was forbidden by official decree.
 Tien Mu
 Goddess of lightning. Chinese. She is said to flash
 her mirror at an intended victim of the god LEI
 KUNG’S thunderbolts to ensure his aim.
 T’ien Tsun (heavenly and honored)
 Generic title of gods. Taoist (Chinese). The name
 given to each of the three holy images in a Taoist
 temple: the “perfect holy one,” the “highest holy
 one” and the “greatest holy one.” Also Tian-zhu.
Tienoltsodi
 TINHAU 315
 God of oceans and fresh water. Navaho [USA].
 He controls the waters which have fallen on
 earth, as distinct from those in the heavens, which
 are ruled by the rain god TONENILI.
 Tifenua (lord of the land)
 Chthonic fertility god. Polynesian [Tikopia]. He
 is linked with the sea god FAIVARONGO and with
 the sky god ATUA I KAFIKA. His father is Pusiu
raura, a powerful deity personified by the reef eel,
 and his mother is one of the Sa-Nguti-Te-Moana.
 Also Pu-I-Te-Moana.
 Ti’hmar
 Supreme god. Kolyma Tungus [Siberia]. The
 name by which the Christian god was still
 addressed after local culture was influenced by
 Russian Orthodoxy.
 Tiki
 Creator god. Polynesian (including Maori). One
 of the children of RANGINUI and PAPATUANUKU
 who created mankind. In some Polynesian tradi
tions he is represented as the first man, akin to
 Adam. The word is also incorporated in tiki
wananga or “god stick,” which describes the
 wooden or stone images of deities that are usually
 minimally worked and stand about 19.5 inches
 tall. Only thirty or so examples of these are
 known, most having been destroyed by Christian
 missions. The celebrated large Maori totems are
 depictions of ancestors who appear as human/bird
 or reptile hybrids. Also Ki’i (Hawaiian).
 Tiksnosnisa (hot and sharp)
 God. Buddhist. Apparently connected with the
 guardian deities or dikpalas in the northwestern
 quarter. Color: sky green (possibly meaning
 “overcast”). Attributes: book and sword.
 Tilla
 Bull god. Hittite and Hurrian. The attendant and
 vehicle of the weather god TES ˇUB.
 Timaiti-Ngava Ringavari (soft-bodied)
 Primordial being. Polynesian [Hervey Islands].
 The female principle which, with TIMATEKORE,
 engendered the earth mother PAPATUANUKU.
 Timatekore  (nothing more)
 Primordial being. Polynesian [Hervey Islands].
 The male principle which, with TIMAITI-NGAVA
 RINGAVARI, engendered the earth mother PAPAT
UANUKU.
 Tin
 Sky god. Etruscan. His attribute is a bunch of
 lightning flashes and he may appear in association
 with THALNA, goddess of birth. In Roman culture
 he becomes syncretized with JUPITER.
 TIN HAU (queen of heaven)
 ORIGIN Taoist (Chinese). Goddess of waters.
 KNOWNPERIOD OFWORSHIP circa AD 1300 until
 present.
 SYNONYMS Lin Ma-Tzu; Ma-Niang; Ma-Tzu.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Hangchow and throughout
 Chinese culture.
 ART REFERENCES paintings and sculptures.
 LITERARY SOURCES various philosophical and
 religious texts, mostly inadequately researched
 and as yet untranslated.
 Tin Hau originates as a mortal born on the island
 of Mei-Chou in the Fukien province of China,
316 Tinirau
 Tir
 the daughter of a minor official. She died at the
 age of twenty-eight, having perfected herself and
 having experienced recurrent dreams of saving
 fishing boats from the waters close to her village.
 This tradition was inscribed on the walls of a
 sanctuary in Hangchow in AD 1228. 
Tin Hau was deified in 1278 by the Mongol
 emperor Kublai Khan, who introduced the title
 “queen of heaven.” The first of the Ch’ing
 emperors subsequently conferred on her the title
 “imperial consort.” She was thus subordinate only
 to Yu Huang Shang Ti, the Jade Emperor.
 Tin Hau was first worshiped as a guardian god
dess of boats and fishermen, but her role was
 extended so that she became the deity of oceans
 and fresh waters. She is celebrated in a festival on
 the twenty-third day of the third month. In art
 she is frequently depicted with two grotesque
 attendant figures known as “Thousand League
 Eyes” and “Favoring Wind Ears.”
 Tinirau (innumerable)
 Fish god. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. The sec
ond offspring of the great mother VARI-MA-TE
TAKEREand the younger sibling of AVATEA. He is
 said to live in the coconut of the world on a sacred
 isle called Motu-Tapu immediately below the
 home of Avatea and to own ponds full of all kinds
 of fish. He is depicted as half man (right side) and
 half fish (left side) in the form of a sprat.
 Tinnit
 Goddess. Pontic (Carthaginian). 
See also TANIT.
 Tino Taata
 Creator god. Polynesian [Society Islands]. Proba
bly regarded as the tutelary deity who engendered
 mankind and equating therefore to the more
 widely recognized Polynesian god TANGAROA.
 God of wisdom. Pre-Christian Armenian. Also
 concerned with writing and revered as an oracle.
 Tirawa
 Creator god. Pawnee Indian [USA]. A remote
 and vaguely defined figure who is present in 
the elements of wind and storm. Lightning is
 the flashing of his eye. He provides the tribe
 with all their needs and is invoked by the Pawnee
 shamans.
 Tirumal (the excellent black one)
 Creator god. Early Dravidian (Tamil). Thought
 to reside in trees and equating with VIS ˇNU. In
 later Hinduism used as an epithet of Visˇnu.
 Tis ˇpak
 God. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian). The
 tutelary deity of the city of Esˇnumma.
 Titans
 A race of gods. Greek. The secondary group of
 deities in the pre-Hellenic pantheon, headed by
 the sky god OURANOS and the earth mother 
GAIA. They have six pairs of children: OKEANOS
 and TETHYS, KRONOS and RHEA, HYPERION and
 THEA, Koeos and Phoebe, IAPETOS and Klymene,
 Kreos and Eurybe. According to legend the chil
dren usurped their father but were eventually
 beaten by ZEUS, heading the major group of 
the pantheon, who hurled them into the abyss of
 Tartaros.
 Titlacahuan (we his slaves)
 Ominoptent god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A universal and generally malevolent
Tlalehitonatiuh 317
 power. One of the group classed as the TEZ
CATLIPOCA complex.
 TIWAZ (derives from Indo-European word
 for god, dieus)
 ORIGIN Germanic (northwestern Europe). Chief
 sky god; god of war. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC and
 probably earlier until Christianization circa AD
 1100.
 SYNONYMS Tyr; Tiw or Tig (Anglo-Saxon);
 Teiwa (archaic). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT scattered forest sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES reliefs in stone and metal.
 LITERARY SOURCES runic inscriptions (see
 Wodan).
 Germanic war god and probably chief among
 their sky gods, one of two contenders on 
which OTHIN may have been modeled in
 Nordic (Icelandic) culture. Classical writers
 identified the Roman war god MARS with
 Tiwaz, thus for the third day of the week we
 have mardi in French but Tuesday in English.
 The runic symbol for Tiwaz is sometimes cut
 on spears, presumably to offer talismanic pro
tection. Tiwaz represents law and order and
 appears as a more honest judiciary than Othin
 (see Othin).
 According to legend, Tiwaz is a one-armed god,
 having sacrificed his hand to the jaws of the wolf
 Fenrir so that it might be bound up. This may
 have been the origin of a practice by which,
 according to Tacitus, the Germanic Semnones
 tribe bound the hands and feet of those entering
 a woodland sanctuary, probably dedicated to
 Tiwaz. At Ragnarok (doom) it is believed that
 Fenrir will break free and swallow the sun.
 According to Snorri (Prose Edda) the wolf Garm,
 possibly Fenrir by another name, kills Tiwaz in
 the final battle of the gods. Place names such as
 Tuesley in Surrey, England, derive from the name
 of the god.
 Ti’ykitiy
 Sun spirit. Yakut [southeastern and central
 Siberia]. Often identified with the supreme being
 AYI’URU’N TOYO’N.
 Ti’zil-Kutkhu
 Guardian spirit. Kamchadal [southeastern
 Siberia]. One of the sons of the creator spirit
 KUTKHU, his consort is SI’DUKU and he is 
considered to be the progenitor of the Kamchadal
 tribe.
 Tlacahuepan (human beam)
 Minor god of war. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A patron god of Mexico and one of the
 group classed as the HUITZILPOCHTLI complex.
 Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli (lord of the dawn)
 God of the morning star (Venus). Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. An incarnation or
 avatara of the god creator QUETZALCOATL and
 one of the group classed as the Mixcoatl complex.
 The ruler of the twelfth of the thirteen heavens
 known at the time of the Spanish conquest, Teotl
 Tlatlauhcan (the place of the red god). In other
 traditions (described in codices Borgia and Vati
canus B) he is one of the four gods supporting the
 lowest heaven at each cardinal point; he resides in
 the east.
 Tlalehitonatiuh (on the earth sun)
 Chthonic underworld god. Aztec (classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as
 the MICTLANTECUHTLI complex.
318 TLALOC
 TLALOC
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Rain god.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP mainly circa AD 750
 to AD 1500, but probably much earlier and still
 continuing among peasants in rural areas.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Tenochtitlan, Teotihuacan,
 Tula, etc.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures; murals and
 codex illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 One of the principal personalities in Aztec cre
ation mythology, Tlaloc was fashioned with the
 water goddess CHALCHIUHTLICUE. According to
 some traditions he is the father of the moon god
 TECCIZTECATL, whom he sacrificed in the great
 fire to engender the moon. He is also perceived as
 the ruler of the eighth of the thirteen heavens
 known at the time of the Spanish conquest,
 Ilhuicatl Xoxouhcan (the blue heaven). He is a
 fertility god who created water and rain and
 presided over the third of the five world ages,
 which he ended with a great fiery rain. He has
 control over lightning. He is perceived in four
 forms—black, white, blue and red—but typically
 blue with “goggles” over the eyes and serpent
 fangs. It has been suggested that he evolved from
 a jaguar-type animistic deity worshiped by the
 Olmecs. He was propitiated to bring rain at the
 end of the dry season by sacrificing large numbers
 of small children on mountain altars.
 At Tenochtitlan, the Great Temple is dedicated
 jointly to HUITZILOPOCHTLI and Tlaloc. One of
 the best sculptures is from Cuilapan, Oaxaca
 (early classic period). A tableau among the palace
 murals of Tepantitla is allegedly dominated by
 the god from whose hands flow droplets of water
 with a background of trees, butterflies and
 human figures. Wall paintings including a mural
 depiction exist at Zacuala. At Tula, Hidalgo,
 Pyramid B used by the Toltecs includes human
 sculptures known as chacmools, holding dishes
 which are believed to have held human hearts
 for Tlaloc.
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton (the small molded
 ones)
 Fertility and rain god. Aztec (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. The personification of small, rain
bearing hills. One of the group classed as the
 TLALOC complex.
 Tlaltecuhtli
 Chthonic creator goddess. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. In Aztec cosmogony,
 Tlaltecuhtli is a monstrous, toad-like figure
 whose body is cleaved in two by the gods TEZ
CATLIPOCA and QUETZALCOATL to fashion heaven
 and earth. The ruler of the second of the thirteen
 heavens known at the time of the Spanish con
quest, Ilhuicatl Tlalocan Ipan Metztli (the heaven
 of the paradise of the rain god over the moon),
 she is also one of the group classed as the MICT
LANTECUHTLIcomplex. She is said to swallow the
 sun each evening and disgorge it in the dawn. She
 also devours the blood and hearts of sacrificial
 victims and the souls of the dead. 
See also CIPACTLI.
 Tlazolteotl (Ixcuiname)
 Chthonic or earth goddess. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Known locally from the
 gulf coast region of Huaxteca. A maternal goddess
 linked with sexual sin and personifying filth. One
 of the group of fertility deities classed as the
 TETEOINNAN complex.
Tomwo’get 319
 Tloque Nahauque (ruler of the near and
 the adjacent)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the Omeotl
 complex.
 Tna’nto (dawn coming out)
 Spirit of the dawn. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The apotheosis of the first light of dawn in the
 eastern sky.
 Tnecei’vune (dawn walking woman)
 Spirit of the dawn. Chukchee [southeastern
 Siberia]. The female consort of the dawn. 
See also TNE’SGAN, MRATNA’IRGIN, LIETNA’IR
GIN and NA’CHITNA’IRGIN.
 Tne’sgan (top of the dawn)
 Spirit of the dawn. Chukchee [southeastern
 Siberia]. One of four beings controlling 
the dawn in different directions. Sacrifice is 
made and blood is sprinkled in the appropriate
 direction.
 Toa’lalit
 God of hunters. Bella Coola Indian [British
 Columbia, Canada]. Oversees the hunting of
 mountain goats. He is invisible, but great hunters
 may catch a glimpse of his hat, moccasins or
 mountain staff moving about. His animals are the
 lynx and raven.
 Tobadzistsini (child of the water)
 War god. Navaho [USA]. Considered younger
 and inferior to NAYENEZGANI, the chief war 
god of the Navaho. His mother conceived him
 through the magical power of a waterfall. His
 priest wears similar attire to that of Nayenezgani,
 but the mask is painted with red ocher except for
 a triangular black area bordered with white. It
 also has a fringe of yellow or red wool.
 Tokakami
 God of death. Huichol Indian (Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. His chief antagonist is the moon god
dess METSAKA.
 Toko’yoto (crab)
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 In Koryak tradition, one of the “owners” of the
 world, the master and creator of the Pacific
 Ocean. His name is that of a large sea crab. In
 some legends he is the father of MITI, the mother
 of the Koryak people.
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli (our male maize 
efflorescence lord)
 Fertility and rain god. Aztec (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the
 TLALOC complex.
 Tomor
 Creator god. Illyrian [Albania]. Also a god of the
 winds. Depicted in human form attended by
 eagles and still invoked by rural peasants.
 Tomwo’get (self-created)
 Archetypal creator being. Koryak [southeastern
 Siberia]. The consort of Ha’na and father of
 Supreme Being, TENANTO’MWAN, and of Big
 Raven, QUIKINNA’QU.
320 Tonacacihuatl
 Tonacacihuatl (our flesh lady)
 Primordial deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. In the most widely accepted Aztec cos
mogony, this is the self-created, eternal, female
 principle who combines with TONACATECUHTLI
 to create all life, transferring souls from heaven to
 the mortal womb. It exists in the highest, thir
teenth heaven and once engendered the sun god
 TEZCATLIPOCA, from whom all other deities in
 the pantheon stemmed. One of the group classed
 as the Omeotl complex. Also Omecihuatl.
 Tonacatecuhtli (our flesh lord)
 Primordial deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. In the most widely accepted Aztec cos
mogony, this is the self-created, eternal, male
 principle who combines with TONACACIHUATL
 to create all life. It exists in the highest, thirteenth
 heaven and once engendered the sun god TEZ
CATLIPOCA, from whom all other deities in the
 pantheon stemmed. Also one of the group classed
 as the OMETEOTL complex. According to tradi
tion Tonacatecuhtli drove four roads through the
 center of the earth after the cataclysm of the
 fourth world age (Atl) to disperse the flood waters
 of the deluge. His four sons, aided by four
 unnamed beings, raised the fallen sky which they
 propped up on great trees created by Tezcatlipoca
 and QUETZALCOATL at the four cardinal points. 
See also TLAHUIZCALPANTECUHTLI, EHECATL
QUETZALCOATL and MICTLANTECUHTLI.
 In alternative mythology Tonacatecuhtli is the
 ruler of the sixth of the thirteen heavens known at
 the time of the Spanish conquest, Ilhuicatl Yayauh
can (the blackish heaven). Also OMETECUHTLI.
 Tonaleque
 Goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. The ruler of the fifth of the thirteen heavens
 known at the time of the Spanish conquest,
 Ilhuicatl Huixtotlan (heaven of the salt fertility
 goddess).
 Tonatiuh (soaring eagle)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. He presides over the fifth (present)
 world age, personified by the sun Ollin and des
tined to end in a cataclysmic earthquake. He is the
 ruler of the fourth of the thirteen heavens known
 at the time of the Spanish conquest; also called
 Ilhuicatl Tonatiuh (the heaven of the sun). In
 other texts, specifically codices Borgia, Cospi and
 Fejervary-Mayer, he is depicted as a temple deity.
 Tonenili
 Rain god. Navaho [USA]. The so-called “lord of
 the celestial waters,” he controls the rain from
 the skies as opposed to that of lakes, rivers and
 seas. He is said to scatter his waters to the four
 cardinal points and storm clouds begin to gather.
 He is also the water-carrier for the other gods in
 the pantheon. He wears a blue mask with a fringe
 of hair and a spruce collar, but is otherwise naked
 save for a scarlet loin-cloth and a leather belt with
 silver ornamentation and a fox skin dangling at
 the back. His attributes, in mythology only, are
 two wicker water-bottles, one blue and one black,
 whose strings are rainbows.
 Topoh
 Astral god. Pokot and Suk [Uganda and western
 Kenya, East Africa]. The son of the creator god
 TORORUT and his consort SETA, he is god of the
 evening star.
 Tork
 Mountain god. Pre-Christian Armenian. Of ter
rifying appearance, he is the guardian deity of
 mountains and their inhabitants.
Tornarssuk (big tornak or shaman)
 Toyo-Uke-Bime 321
 Totoltecatl
 Supreme being. Inuit. The master of the tornat,
 the group of controlling deities. He is essentially
 benevolent and can be communicated with
 through the individual tornak of a shaman. His
 home is in the underworld in the land of souls. He
 is described as being of vague appearance, possi
bly in the guise of a huge bear, though in Green
land Inuit tradition he lives in the sea, appearing
 as a large fat seal with long tentacles (i.e. possibly
 a cuttlefish). He devours the souls of those he can
 capture. With the introduction of Christianity he
 was syncretized with the devil.
 Toro
 Creator god. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. He is perceived as a great
 serpent, the son of KANGALOGBA, who is both the
 spirit of the dragonfly and the symbol of the
 sacred river Oubangui.
 Tororut
 Creator god. Pokot and Suk [Uganda and western
 Kenya, East Africa]. He is invoked in a special
 annual ceremony, which involves the sacrifice of
 an ox, to ensure safety of crops and cattle. The
 same ritual is performed in times of drought,
 famine or plague. His brother is ASIS the sun god.
 His consort is SETA and their children include
 the rain god ILAT, ARAWA the moon and TOPOH
 the evening star.
 Totatis See TEUTATES.
 Totilma’il (father-mother)
 Creator being. Mayan (Tzotzil, classical Meso
american) [Mexico]. An androgynous personality
 who represents the ancestral source of creation.
 Fertility god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the 
Ometochtli complex concerned with the maguey
 plant and the brewing of the alcoholic drink
 pulque.
 Tou Mou
 Goddess of measure. Chinese. Usually depicted
 with many arms and with a caste mark on her
 forehead, suggesting that she derives from the
 goddess of the aurora, MARICI, in Indian Bud
dhism. She is considered to live in the constella
tion of Ursa Major and may also be an aspect of
 the astral goddess TIN HAU.
 Touia Fatuna (iron stone)
 Earth goddess. Polynesian [Tonga]. The daughter
 of Kele (slime) and Limu (seaweed), she is the
 apotheosis of rock deep in the earth and is 
periodically in labor, at which time she rumbles
 and shakes and produces children.
 Toumou
 God of uncertain function. Egyptian. A deity
 whose mummy was allegedly kept at Heliopolis.
 Toyo-Uke-Bime
 Goddess of foodstuffs. Shinto [Japan]. An
 ambiguous deity often identified with Inari, she is
 said in the Kojiki to be a daughter of Waku
Musubi-No-Kami and a great granddaughter of
 IZANAGI and IZANAMI. Her main sanctuary is the
 Geku in Ise, whither she was allegedly removed
 from Tamba after the emperor had received a
 dream-message from the sun goddess AMATERASU
 in AD 478.
322 Tozi
 Trimurti
 Tozi
 Goddess of healing. Aztec (classical Mesoameri
can) [Mexico]. Also the deity of sweet water 
remedial baths.
 Trailokyavijaya (lord of three worlds)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). Seen standing on the
 Hindu deities Mahesvara (S ˇIVA) and GAURI.
 Color: blue. Attributes: arrow, bell, bow, club,
 hook, noose, prayer wheel, staff and sword. Also
 an alternative name for ACALA.
 Trayastrinsa (the thirty-three)
 Collective name for the group of deva gods.
 Hindu (Vedic). One of the many lists of 
deities in Hinduism, this one is contained in 
the Rg Veda and includes thirty-three names
 divided into three groups of eleven in each of
 the three worlds. Subsequently, the DEVAS
 were separated into eight VASUS, twelve
 ADITYAS, eleven RUDRAS and two ASVINS. In later
 Hinduism the number thirty-three is increased
 hyperbolically to 330 million and deva refers to
 gods excluding the major triad of BRAHMA,
 VIS ˇNU and S ˇIVA.
 Triglav
 God of war. Slav (Baltic). The head of the pan
theon in Stettin and also mentioned in association
 with Brandenburg, he is described in chronicles as
 bearing three heads.
 Trikantakidevi (goddess of three thorns)
 Goddess. Hindu. Of terrible appearance. Color:
 part red, part black. Attributes: conch, two lamps,
 prayer wheel and teeth.
 Collective title for the major triad. Hindu. A
 three-headed representation of BRAHMA, VIS ˇNU
 and S ˇIVA as one entity. Contested by some
 authors, who argue that Brahma, who is almost
 invariably represented with four heads, would be
 included here with only one.
 Tripura (lady of the three cities)
 Mother goddess. Hindu and Jain. In Jainism
 regarded as one of the ASTAMATARAS. In Hin
duism the SAKTI of Tripurantaka, an ugra (terri
ble) representation of the god S ˇIVA, alternatively
 a form of the goddess PARVATI. The “three cities”
 are the cities of gold, silver and iron, one in
 heaven, one in the air and one on earth, which
 S
 ˇ iva destroyed in his form as Tripurantaka.
 Tripura is depicted attended by vultures. Attrib
utes: book, hook, noose and rosary.
 Trita (Aptya)
 God(dess). Hindu (Vedic). Known from the Rg
 Veda. An obscure form of Indra with strong water
 attributes. Also Aptya.
 Tritons
 Minor sea gods. Roman. The children of POSEI
DONand AMPHITRITE who are depicted as hybrid
 fish-men. Generally included in the royal court of
 the god Neptune. Attributes: conches.
 See also NEPTUNUS.
 Trivikrama (taking three steps)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). It may originally
 have been the name of a sun god, but is taken as
 the incarnation of VIS ˇNU which strides the world
 in three steps in his dwarfish manifestation, and is
 linked with the Hindu perception of the three
Tu (2) 323
 parts of the world—heaven, air and earth. His
 SAKTI is SANTI. Normally depicted with the left
 leg raised. Attributes: arrow, bow, club, conch,
 knife, lotus, noose, plough, prayer wheel, staff
 and sword.
 Trograin
 Minor god. Celtic (Irish).
 Tsai Shen
 God of wealth. Chinese. The deity associated
 with mandarins. He is depicted wearing a pink
 robe associated with Yin and the season of spring.
 His attributes include a ring of coins around the
 hem of the robe, a lotus motif of fertility on the
 breast and a golden mushroom, a symbol of
 longevity, carried in the hand. One of his atten
dants carries a deer horn, symbol of potency,
 while the other carries a bowl of money and a
 sheaf of golden grass.
 Tsai Shen may appear in company with FU
 SHEN, god of luck, and SHOU LAO, god of
 longevity.
 Tsa’qamae
 God of salmon migration. Qwe’gsotenox Indian
 [British Columbia, Canada]. The so-called “head
 winter dancer,” his attributes include head ring
 and neck ring of bark to which heads are
 attached.
 Tsohanoai (day bearer)
 Sun god. Navaho [USA]. Not regarded as a
 supreme god, Tsohanoai moves across the sky,
 invisible, behind the disc of the sun, sa, which is his
 shield. His consort is the fertility goddess EST
SANATLEHI and he is the father of the war 
god NAYENEZGANI. He is also attributed with the
 creation of all the big game animals. He is thought
 to walk on a rainbow and ride a blue steed. He is
 never depicted in art nor impersonated.
 Tsuki-Yomi
 Moon god. Shinto [Japan]. Engendered from the
 right eye of IZANAGI immediately after AMAT
ERASU was engendered from the left. There is
 very little reference to him in the sacred texts and
 his is a highly aesthetic form of worship. Allegedly
 he slew the food KAMI Uke-Mochi. He is depicted
 riding a horse and a number of sanctuaries are
 addressed to his cult, including the two Tsuki
Yomi-No-Miya shrines in the Ise Jingu temple.
 He also enjoys an ancient sanctuary on the island
 of Iki. Also Tsuki-Yomi-Otoko.
 Tsunigoab (wounded knee)
 Creator god. Khoi [Namibia, southwestern
 Africa]. As his name suggests, he walks with a
 limp. His injury was sustained in a primordial bat
tle with his arch rival GAUNAB, the god of dark
ness, who was eventually driven away to live in the
 black heaven. Tsunigoab used to be invoked at
 dawn each day.
 Tu (1)
 Chthonic earth goddess. Chinese. A fertility spirit 
also identified as she who was invoked to bring
 good harvests by phallic-shaped mounds of earth
 left in the fields.
 Tu (2)
 Primordial god. Polynesian. One of three ele
ments, with TANE and LONO, who existed in
 chaos and night which they broke into pieces,
324 TUATHA DEDANANN
 allowing day to come in. Tu represents stability. He
 is also regarded as a war god. Also KU (Hawaiian).
 TUATHA DE DANANN (peoples of the
 goddess Danu)
 ORIGIN Celtic (Irish). Collective name for the
 pantheon.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization circa AD 400. 
SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various throughout Ireland,
 but chiefly Tara.
 ART REFERENCES various stone sculptures and
 reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Books of Invasions; Cycles of
 Kings; votive inscriptions.
 An association of deities probably going back to
 pre-tribal times. The deities include the DAGDA,
 LUG, GOBNIU, Nuadu Argatlam and others and
 represent a possibly non-tribal hierarchy of the
 supernatural joined against a common foe, the
 powers of destruction and misfortune, the
 Fomoire, and the Fir Bolg who were allegedly an
 agricultural tribe from Greece. These were pre
historic invaders of Ireland who were defeated in
 two battles fought at Moytura.
 Tradition claims that the Tuatha arrived in Ire
land under the leadership of the god NUADA from
 somewhere in the north. Four places relating to
 their country of origin are mentioned in old
 text—Falias, Finias, Gorias and Murias. No 
further details are given. Having defeated the
 Fomoire and the Fir Bolg, they are said to have
 become the rulers of Ireland. 
The Tuatha de Danann mythology is familiar
 to all the Celtic races and the names of the gods
 and goddesses, with local variations, are also
 known from Welsh mythology. Under Christian
 influence the position of the pantheon was deni
grated and individual members were placed in the
 ranks of fairies. 
Tule
 Spider god. Zande [Sudan and Democratic
 Republic of Congo, Africa]. He descended from
 the sky on a rope, carrying all plants and seeds.
 He was also responsible for giving mankind water
 and the tools of cultivation.
 Tumatauenga
 God of war. Polynesian (including Maori). One of
 the children of the prime parents RANGINUI and
 PAPATUANUKU, he proposed the slaughter of his
 parents when it was decided to separate them as
 sky and earth. He was subsequently given charge
 over mankind (tangata), which he imbued with
 his lust for the warfare and violence that was a
 characteristic part of Maori culture. Also
 Kumatauenga (Hawaiian).
 Tu-Metua (stick-by-parent)
 God. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. The sixth child
 of VARI-MA-TE-TAKERE, the primordial mother.
 Torn from her right side, he stays with her in the
 confined space at the bottom of the world
 coconut and lives in endless silence.
 Tumuteanaoa (echo)
 Goddess. Polynesian [Hervey Islands]. The
 fourth child of VARI-MA-TE-TAKERE, the pri
mordial mother. Torn from her right side,
 Tumuteanaoa lives in Te-Parai-Tea (hollow gray
 rocks) below the home of the god TANGO.
 Tunek
 God of seal hunters. Inuit. A fearsome being of
 huge stature (13 feet tall) who lives on the ice
Tzultacah 325
 fields and is capable of running very fast. He also
 sits in his kaiak in the fog and catches seal in huge
 traps.
 Turan
 Goddess of love. Etruscan. The tutelary deity of
 Vulci, she is depicted bearing wings and with
 attributes including a swan, a dove and a blossom.
 Turms
 Chthonic underworld god. Etruscan. Modeled on
 the Greek messenger god HERMES, with caduceus
 (winged rod), winged shoes and cloak, he leads
 the souls of the dead toward the underworld.
 Tutu
 God. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akkadian). The
 tutelary god of Borsippa, near Babylon, during
 the reign of Hammurabi in the old Babylonian
 period, but later superseded by NABU.
 Tvastar (carpenter)
 Creator god. Hindu (Vedic). The “divine builder”
 who fashions living creatures on earth. The
 Hindu equivalent of the Roman god VULCANUS.
 An ADITYA or sun god and the father of SARANYU.
 Attributes: homajakalika (an uncertain fire device),
 ladle and two lotuses. Also Tastar; Tvashtri; 
VISVAKARMAN.
 Tyche
 Goddess of fortune. Greco-Roman. She appears
 as a nereid in the Hymn to Demeter (Homer).
 According to Hesiod’s Theogony she is the daugh
ter of OKEANOS. Elsewhere she is identified as
 the daughter of ZEUS and HERA. She is depicted
 carrying a rudder or, alternatively, cornucopiae.
 Also mentioned as Agathe Tyche, the consort of
 Agathos Daemon. She became widely identified
 with the Asian mother goddess KYBELE but was
 replaced, in Roman times, by the goddess FOR
TUNA and associated symbolically with a wheel
 device. She retained popularity for a long time.
 There is a record that the Emperor Julian sacri
ficed to Tyche at Antioch in AD 361-2 and her
 temple was still intact during the reign of Theo
dosius (379-95).
 Tyr See TIWAZ.
 Tzontemoc (head-descending)
 Minor underworld god. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the MICTLANTECUHTLI complex.
 Tzu Sun Niangniang
 Mother goddess. Chinese. One of the “nine dark
 ladies” of the pantheon who are regarded as 
having a protective role. She was the mortal wife
 of a minor official and, having borne him 
five sons and two daughters, committed suicide
 in order to ensure her future chastity. She is
 invoked at weddings to provide children, 
especially sons, and special cakes are eaten by 
the bride and groom. One of her more famous
 sanctuaries, on the island of Taiwan, is the Yin
 Yang Stone.
 Tzultacah (mountain valley)
 Chthonic and thunder gods. Mayan (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. A group of deities who
 combine the features of earth and rain gods.
 Although there are considered to be an indefinite
326 Tzultacah
 number of Tzultacahs, only thirteen are invoked
 in prayers. They live in, and may personify,
 springs and rivers, but each is the owner of a spe
cific mountain. They are attended by snakes
 which are dispatched to punish mankind for
 wrongdoing. Non-poisonous varieties are sent to
 discipline against minor offenses, rattlesnakes for
 more serious depravity.
6
 U
 Ua-Ildak
 Vegetation goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). The deity responsible for pastures and
 poplar trees.
 Ubertas
 Minor god of agriculture. Roman. Known 
particularly from the reign of Tiberias in 
the second century BC and associated with 
prosperity.
 Ucchusma
 God. Buddhist. An emanation of AKSOBHYA or
 RATNASAMBHAVA. Also a form of JAMBHALA. He is
 depicted as pot-bellied and stands upon Kubera,
 the Hindu god of riches, who lies with jewels
 spewing from his mouth. Attributes: cup, ichneu
mon fly, image of Aksobhya in the hair, moon
 disc and snakes. Three-eyed.
 Udadhikumara
 Generic name of a god. Jain [India]. One of a
 group of deities under the general title of
 BHVANAVASI (dwelling in places). They have youth
ful appearance.
 Ugar
 ˇamra].
 Vegetation god. Western Semitic (Syrian). Possi
bly linked with the Canaanite city of Ugarit [Ras
 S
 Ugracandika (violent Canda)
 Distinct form of the goddess DURGA. Hindu
 (Epic and Puranic). One of a group of NAVADUR
GAS, the “nine durgas.”
 Ugratara (violent Tara)
 Goddess. Hindu (Puranic). A terrible deity who
 carries a cup and a corpse upon her head.
 Ukko
 Thunder god. Pre-Christian Finnish. Drives a
 cart which generates flashes of lightning as the
 horses’ hoofs hit stones along the way; the noise
 of thunder comes from the wheels or from Ukko
 grinding corn with a big stone. Attributes: ax,
 blue robe, hammer and sword.
 Ukur
 Chthonic underworld god. Mesopotamian (Baby
lonian-Akkadian).
 327
328 ULL
 ULL [Gothic] (glory)
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic) and Germanic. May
 have originated as an early northern German
 sky god, but also connected with fertility and
 with the sea.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until Christianization circa AD 1100.
 SYNONYMS Ullr.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none known, but several
 place names in Norway and Sweden allude.
 ART REFERENCES possibly the subject of anony
mous carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); place names.
 A sky god of Asgard, but with some links to the
 VANIR gods. The son of SIF and stepson of THOR,
 he is responsible for justice, and oaths were once
 sworn over the “ring of Ull.” He may also have a
 role in the fertility of crops. Skaldic verse men
tions the “ship of Ull,” presumed to be a reference
 to the use of Ull’s shield as a boat. A scabbard
 excavated in Denmark in the third century AD
 bears a runic inscription “servant of Ull.” Accord
ing to Snorri he wears a bow and snow shoes.
 Saxo describes him crossing the sea on a magic
 bone—a ski? He may have a sister, Ullin.
 ULU’TUYAR ULU TOYO’N (titular
 horrible lord)
 ORIGIN Yakut [central Siberia]. Malevolent 
creator spirit.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until circa AD 1900.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no fixed sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES possibly wood carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES The Yakut (Jochelson).
 A creative being superintending the ICCI (masters
 or owners) and generally seen in a destructive
 capacity. He lives in the upper world, and “in the
 west.”
 See also URU’N AJY TOYO’N.
 Uma
 A form of the goddess PARVATI. Hindu (Puranic).
 Uma is identified as the consort of Chan
drashekhara, a form of S ˇIVA which includes 
the moon among his attributes. The meaning of
 her name is unclear, but possibly has maternal
 connotations. As Uma Maheshvara she fought
 with demons including Mahisha. Attributes:
 lotus, mirror, rosary and waterjar. 
See also SOMASKANDA.
 Umashi-Ashi-Kabi-Hiko-Ji-No-Kami
 (pleasant reed shoot prince elder deity)
 Creator being. Shinto [Japan]. The fourth of the
 deities to be listed in the Kojiki sacred text. He was
 engendered from the reeds floating on the pri
mordial waters and is perceived as a remote and
 vague figure who hides himself from mankind.
 Umvelinkwangi
 Creator god. Zulu [South Africa]. He engendered
 all plants and animals on earth and is the father of
 the god UNKULUNKULU, who was born from a
 reed and engendered mankind.
 Uni
 Tutelary goddess. Etruscan. The consort of the
 sky god TIN and linked with the region of Perugia.
 Unkulunkulu
 Creator god. Zulu [South Africa]. The androgy
nous son/daughter of UMVELINKWANGI, and the
 progenitor of mankind, he was born from a reed.
Unumbote
 Usas 329
 Uras ˇ
 Creator god. Bassari [Togo, West Africa]. Engen
dered all living things on earth.
 Unxia
 Goddess of marriage. Roman. Concerned with
 anointing the bridegroom’s door.
 Upakesini
 Minor god. Buddhist. An attendant of ARA
PACANA.
 Upapattivasita (control of fitness)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of a group 
of VASITAS personifying the disciplines of spir
itual regeneration. Color: mixed. Attribute: a
 creeper.
 Upayaparamita (perfecting success against
 enemies)
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: green. Attributes:
 jeweled staff and staff on yellow lotus.
 Upulvan (like the blue lotus)
 Local god. Singhalese [Sri Lanka]. The most sen
ior of the four great gods of the Singhalese pan
theon. Identified with VIS ˇNU, according to one
 tradition his specific task was to protect the cul
ture of Sri Lanka from Buddhism. Conversely he
 stood by Gautama BUDDHA against the Hindu
 MARA.
 Uranos See OURANOS.
 Chthonic earth goddess. Mesopotamian (Sumer
ian). One of the named consorts of the sky god
 ANand the mother of NIN’INSINNA.
 URU’N AJY TOYO’N (white creator lord)
 ORIGIN Yakut [central Siberia]. Creator spirit.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until circa 1900 AD. 
SYNONYMS AYI’-URU’N TOYO’N (lord bright 
creator).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT no fixed sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES possibly sculptures in wood.
 LITERARY SOURCES The Yakut (Jochelson).
 A creator being said to live in the zenith of the
 upper world, and also “in the northeast,” superin
tending the ICCI (masters or owners). He may also
 personify the sun. He tends to act for good and
 horses were sacrificed to him. Generally addressed
 by a beneficent or white shaman (ajy ayuna). 
See also ULU’TUYAR ULU TOYO’N.
 Usas
 Goddess of the dawn. Hindu (Vedic). The
 daughter of Dyaus and, according to some texts,
 the consort of the sun god SURYA. An auspicious
 deity, Usas brings the dawn, heralding Surya,
 and drives away darkness. She is the all-seeing
 eye of the gods. In the Rg Veda she is depicted as
 a beautiful young virginal figure who rides in a
 hundred chariots. She sets all things in motion
 and can render strength and fame to her devo
tees. In addition to being perceived as a sky 
goddess, she is also drawn as a mother goddess
 in the guise of a cow. Epithets include “mother
 of the gods” and “mother of cows.” She is
 invoked to give the boon of longevity, but a
330 Usins
 more malignant aspect reveals her as a huntress
 who wastes human life. Usas sometimes 
enjoys a domestic worship as a guardian hearth
 goddess who drives away darkness and evil 
spirits. She disappears, however, from the 
later traditions of Hinduism.
 Usins
 Astral god. Pre-Christian Latvian. Associated
 with both the morning and evening star and also
 has links with bee-keepers and spring. Under
 Christian influence he becomes absorbed into the
 figure of St. George.
 Uslo
 Spirit of mountains. Yakut [central Siberia]. One
 of the guardians of the natural world answering to
 the mountain owner XAYA ICCITA.
 Usnisa
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the
 zenith direction. Also a collective term for a
 group of eight deities, including Usnisa, who are
 perceived as extensions of the DHYANIBUDDHAS.
 NOTE: the word describes, additionally, a type
 of curled hairstyle found in the characteristic
 iconography of buddhas. Color: yellow. Attributes:
 jewel, lotus, prayer wheel and sword. Three
headed.
 Usnisavijaya (victorious)
 Primordial goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Form
 of VAIROCANA, widely worshiped in Tibet.
 Regarded as a female BODHISATTVA or buddha
designate, and a dikpala or guardian of the zenith
 direction. Also a deification of literature. One of
 a group of DHARANIS. Color: white. Attributes:
 arrow, bow, image of the BUDDHA on a lotus leaf,
 jewel, noose, prayer wheel, staff and waterjar.
 Three-eyed, three-headed and with eight arms.
 Uttarabhadrapada
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A moderate NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Uttaraphalguni
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A moderate NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Uttarasadha
 Minor goddess of fortune. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). A benevolent NAKSATRA; daughter of
 DAKSA and wife of CANDRA (SOMA).
 Uttu
 Vegetation goddess and goddess of weaving.
 Mesopotamian (Sumerian). Not to be confused
 with UTU the sun god, Uttu is a minor deity
 whose father is ENKI. According to legend, Enki
 first impregnated the mother goddess NINHUR
SAG˜A, whose nine-day gestation produced the
 goddess NIN-S ˇAR. She in turn was impregnated by
 Enki and, after a similar nine-day gestation, gave
 birth to the goddess NINKURRA. Through the
 same procedure with her grandfather, Ninkurra
 conceived the goddess Uttu. She is depicted as the
 goddess of weaving and of spiders.
 UTU
 ORIGIN Mesopotamian (Sumerian) [Iraq]. Sun
 god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 3500 BC to
 circa 1750 BC.
UTU 331
 SYNONYMS S ˇAMAS ˇ (Akkadian). 
CENTER(S) OF CULT Sippar.
 ART REFERENCES plaques, votive stelae and glyp
tics.
 LITERARY SOURCES various creation epics and
 other texts.
 Utu is the power of sunlight and, in a social 
context, of justice and the implementation of law.
 He is the son of the moon god NANNA and the
 goddess NINLIL. His brother and sister are IS ˇKUR
 and INANA. He rises “in the mountains of the
 east” and sets “in the mountans of the west.” He
 is usually depicted wearing a horned helmet and
 carrying a saw-edged weapon not unlike a prun
ing saw, which it is thought he has used to cut
 through the side of a mountain from which he
 emerges, symbolizing the dawn. He may also
 carry a mace and stand with one foot on the
 mountain.
6
 V
 Vac (speech)
 1. Goddess of the spoken word. Hindu (Vedic).
 In some texts she is a daughter of DAKSA and con
sort of KASYAPA. Alternatively she is the daughter
 of Ambhrna. Also known by the epithet “queen of
 the gods,” Vac is the personification of the phe
nomenon of speech and oral communication. She
 gives the boon of hearing, speech and sight and
 she can lead a man to become a Brahman. She
 also personifies truth and sustains soma—the liq
uid essence of vision and immortality. She is said
 to have created the four Vedas, the basis of the
 earliest Hindu mythology. 
Though she takes a prominent place in the Rg
 Veda, Vac largely disappears from later Hindu
 traditions. She may have become syncretized with
 the goddess of wisdom, SARASVATI. She is gener
ally depicted as an elegant womanly figure
 dressed in gold, but in the secondary capacity of
 a mother goddess she is also drawn as a cow.
 2. God. Buddhist. An emanation of AMITABHA
 and a variety of MANJUSRI.
 Vacuna
 Minor goddess. Sabine. A sanctuary dedicated to
 this deity is known to have existed near the villa
 belonging to the poet Horace. She may be syn
onymous with DIANA or MINERVA.
 Vadali
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of MARICI. Attributes: flower, needle, noose
 and staff.
 Vagbija (seed of speech)
 Minor goddess. Hindu (Puranic). An aspect of
 the goddess SARASVATI in the form of a bija mantra.
 The embodiment or apotheosis of consciousness
 representing the sacred word.
 Vagisvara (lord of speech)
 God of speech. Buddhist. The tutelary deity of
 Nepal. An emanation of all DHYANIBUDDHAS
 (spiritual meditation buddhas) and a variety of
 MANJUSRI. Accompanied by a lion or seated upon
 a lion throne. Attribute: blue lotus.
 Vagitanus
 Minor god of passage. Roman. The guardian of
 the infant’s first cry at birth.
 Vahagn
 God of victory. Pre-Christian Armenian. Con
sidered to epitomize bravery, he is depicted born
 from a fire and with flames for hair.
 332
Vahguru
 VAIROCANA 333
 Creator god. Sikh. Worshiped in the Golden
 Temple of Amritsar, in northern India. He has no
 icons.
 Vaikuntha
 Aspect of VISˇNU. Hindu (Puranic). Visˇnu is
 depicted under this title residing in his own
 heaven, known as Vaikuntha. He is seen with four
 heads in an attribute known as caturmukha,
 where the central head is human, that to the left
 is Sakti, to the right NARASINHA, and facing
 behind, VARAHA. As such Visˇnu’s vehicle is either
 the mythical bird, GARUDA, or he reposes on the
 serpent ANANTA (SESA). The aspect may also be
 known as Trailokyamohana.
 Vaimanika
 Generic title for a group of deities. Jain [India]. A
 class of gods said to be borne by, or living within,
 a flying palace, the vimana.
 VAIRACOCHA
 ORIGIN Inca [Peru]. Creator god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 400 to
 circa AD 1500.
 SYNONYMS Huiracocha; Viracocha.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Cuzco
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures in stone and
 precious metals and carvings (all lost).
 LITERARY SOURCES none.
 The creator of all other supernatural beings and
 of men and animals, Vairacocha is perceived to
 rule the heavens in the fashion of an Inca
 emperor. He is the source of all divine power, but
 not immediately concerned with administration
 of the world and appears only in times of crisis.
 He is also depicted as a heroic figure who once
 traveled the world teaching mankind various arts
 and crafts. He is said to have crossed the Pacific
 Ocean walking upon the water.
 In the chief sanctuary at Cuzco the deities of
 the pantheon were represented in gold statues,
 that of Vairacocha being the most important. It
 is described as having been the size of a small
 boy, right hand upraised with fist clenched, but
 with the thumb and forefinger stretched out. His
 full Inca name, contracted by the Spanish
 invaders, is Ilya-Tiqsi Wiraqoca Pacayacaciq
 (ancient foundation, lord, instructor of the
 world). The title Vairacocha has been used by
 South American Indians into recent times to
 address white people.
 Va’irgin (I exist)
 Supreme being. Chukchee [eastern Siberia]. A
 remote and poorly defined character who lives 
in the zenith of the sky and who created 
the world. Comparable with the Koryak deity 
TENANTO’MWAN.
 VAIROCANA (coming from the sun)
 ORIGIN Buddhist [India]. The first and oldest
 dhyanibuddha or meditation buddha.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 500 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS Buddhaheruka. 
CENTER(S) OF CULT pan-Asiatic. 
ART REFERENCES metal and stone sculp
tures, paintings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Sadhanamala and Tantric 
ritual texts.
 One of five mystic spiritual counterparts of a
 human buddha in Vajrayana Buddhism. A prod
uct of the ADIBUDDHA who represents the
334 Vairotya
 Vajradaka
 branch of the cosmos concerned with bodily
 form. He originates from the white mantra syl
lable OM and lives in the zenith paradise. His
 icon is normally placed in the innermost part of
 a stupa or shrine. His SAKTI is VAJRADHATVISVARI
 and he is normally accompanied by a lion or two
 dragons. Color: white. Attributes: three monk
ish robes and prayer wheel. He is also taken as a
 tutelary deity in Lamaism [Tibet] in which case
 his attributes include bell and prayer wheel.
 Emanations include chiefly SAMANTABHADRA
 but also CUNDA, GRAHAMATRKA, MAHASAHAS
RAPRAMARDANI, MARICI, NAMASANGITI, Sitatap
atraAparajita, USNISAVIJAYA and Vajravahi. See
 also AKSOBHYA, AMITABHA, AMOGHASIDDHI and
 RATNASAMBHAVA.
 Vairotya (having an ax and a goad)
 Goddess of learning. Jain [India]. One of sixteen
 Vidyadevi headed by the goddess Sarasvati.
 Vaisnavi
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI of VISˇNU, also regarded as a form of
 LAKSMI. In later Hinduism she became one of a
 group of MATARAS regarded as of evil intent. Also
 one of a group of eight ASTAMATARAS. In another
 grouping one of nine NAVASAKTIS who, in south
ern India, rank higher than the SAPTAMATARAS.
 Her vehicle is the hybrid beast GARUDA. Attrib
utes: child, club, conch, lotus and prayer wheel.
 Vajracarcika
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA, she stands upon a corpse. Color: red.
 Attributes: cup, image of Aksobhya on the crown,
 jewel, lotus, skull with noose, staff and sword.
 Three-eyed.
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA bearing one, three or four heads.
 Vajradhara
 God. Buddhist. An epithet of the ADIBUDDHA but
 also an allegory for the highest buddha. Known
 particularly from Nepal and Tibet. His SAKTI is
 PRAJNAPARAMITA. Attributes: cup, hook, noose,
 regal ornaments and staff. Three-headed.
 Vajradhatvisvari (lady of the adamantine
 world)
 Goddess. Buddhist. The SAKTI of VAIROCANA and
 also a variety of MARICI. Attributes: many, includ
ing an image of Vairocana on the crown.
 Vajragandhari
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Color:
 blue or gold. Attributes: arrow, ax, bell, bow,
 hook, image of AMOGHASIDDHI, knife, noose,
 prayer wheel, staff, sword, and trident.
 Vajragarbha (substance of a thunderbolt)
 God. Buddhist (Vajrayana). A BODHISATTVA or
 buddha-designate. Color: blue. Attributes: blue
 lotus, book and staff.
 Vajraghanta
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). A female
 dikpala or guardian of the northern direction.
 Color: green or white. Attributes: staff with bell.
 Vajramrta (immortal of the Vajra sect)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AMOGHASIDDHI. His vehicle is an animal of
Vali 335
 uncertain identity. Color: green. Attributes: bell,
 club, hook, prayer wheel, staff and sword.
 Vajrapani
 God. Buddhist [mainly Tibet]. An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA but also sometimes identified with
 ADIBUDDBA. Generally thought to reflect the sec
ond DHYANIBUDDHA or spiritual meditation bud
dha. Sometimes depicted with a peacock.
 Alternatively considered to be a counterpart of
 the Hindu god INDRA. Color: dark blue or white.
 Attributes: noose, snake and staff. Also Acala
Vajrapani; Acarya-Vajrapani.
 Vajrapasi
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). A female
 dikpala or guardian of the southern direction.
 Color: yellow. Attributes: staff with noose.
 Vajrasphota
 Goddess. Buddhist. A female dikpala or guardian
 of the western direction. Attribute: staff.
 Vajrasrnkhala (personification)
 1. Minor goddess. Buddhist. One of the Mahayana
 deities said to be an emanation of AMOGHASIDDHI.
 Some texts describe her as the SAKTI of HEVAJIRA.
 Color: green. Attributes: arrow, bow, cup, image of
 Amoghasiddhi on the crown, mane, noose skin,
 and staff. Three-eyed and three-headed.
 2. Goddess of learning. Jain. One of sixteen
 VIDYADEVI headed by the goddess SARASVATI.
 Vajratara
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Considered to
 be an emanation of all the DHYANIBUDDHAS or
 spiritual meditation buddhas. Also identified as an
 emanation of RATNASAMBHAVA or a form of
 Bhrkuti. She stands upon a lotus. Color: golden.
 Attributes: arrow, blue lotus, bow, conch, hook,
 images of the five Dhyanibuddhas on the crown,
 noose and staff. Three-eyed.
 Vajravarahi (diamond sow)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana) and Lamaist
 [Tibet]. An emanation of VAIROCANA and some
times identified as the SAKTI of HEVAJIRA. In
 Lamaism she accompanies VAJRADAKA. She is
 depicted treading on a man. Color: red. Attrib
utes: principally club, cup, image of Vairocana on
 the crown and knife, but with an assortment of
 other attributes from time to time. Three-eyed
 and three-headed.
 Vajravidarani (tearing asunder)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). Attributes:
 arrows, banner, bow, hook, noose, shield, staff
 and sword. Five-headed.
 Vajrayogini
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). She can
 sometimes be identified carrying her severed head
 in her hand. Color: yellow. Attributes: club, cup,
 knife and staff. Three-eyed.
 Vajrosnisa
 God. Buddhist. Apparently connected with the
 guardian deities or dikpalas in the easterly direc
tion. Color: white. 
See also PADMANTAKA.
 Vali
 God. Nordic (Icelandic). One of the sons of
 OTHIN, his mother is RIND. A hardened, bold
336 Valli
 VANIR
 warrior and an excellent shot. He slew HODER
 and thus avenged the death of BALDER. One of
 the survivors of Ragnarok destined to live in the
 land which replaces Asgard, Idavoll. Also Ali.
 Valli
 Goddess. Hindu. The second consort of SKANDA,
 usually depicted standing to his right. In its orig
inal context the word Valli may mean “earth.”
 Valtam
 God. Nordic (Icelandic). According to the Poetic
 Edda (Balder’s Dreams) Valtam is the father of
 OTHIN.
 Vamana
 Incarnation of the god VIS ˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The fifth avatara of Visˇnu which
 appears as a dwarf, symbolizing the puny state of
 mankind in the cosmos. According to legend, the
 god took the guise in order to trick BALI, a great
grandson of Hiranyakashipu (see NARASINHA),
 whose prestige had begun to overshadow that of
 INDRA. To restore a proper balance Vamana
 requested from Bali a plot of land three paces
 wide on which to meditate. Visˇnu returned to 
his proper stature and claimed heaven and 
earth in two steps. He declined to take the third
 which would have also claimed the underworld,
 but instead gave its rule to Bali. The dwarfish
 form bears two arms. Attributes: umbrella and
 waterpot.
 Vana-Durga
 Aspect of DURGA. Hindu (Puranic). A form of
 the goddess invoked by woodsmen and foresters.
 She often wears an elephant skin, is eight-armed
 and carries an assortment of weapons.
 ORIGIN Nordic (Icelandic). A major group of
 Norse deities concerned primarily with peace
 and prosperity and with the fertility of the land.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP Viking period circa
 AD 700 and earlier, until Christianization circa
 AD 1100 and in some instances beyond.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various throughout areas of
 Nordic influence, but particularly at Uppsala in
 Sweden.
 ART REFERENCES stone carving and sculpture;
 artwork on weapons, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Icelandic codices; Prose Edda
 (Snorri); Historia Danica (Saxo); various classi
cal authors.
 A smaller race of deities than the AESIR gods led
 by OTHIN. The most important among them are
 FREYR and FREYJA. The sea god, NJORD, had
 originally been a Vanir but became hostage to the
 Aesir when the two races were at war. 
Varaha (boar)
 Incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The third avatara of Visˇnu, which
 appears as a boar. According to legend, he
 descends in this guise to the bottom of the
 primeval sea to rescue the earth, which has been
 removed there by a demon. He retrieves it in the
 shape of a girl. The avatara may be depicted in
 wholly animal form or as a human with a boar’s
 head. Epithets include Adivaraha.
 Varahi
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A
 SAKTI who in later Hinduism becomes one of a
 group of MATARAS regarded as of evil intent.
 Also one of a group of eight ASTAMATARAS. In
 another grouping, one of nine NAVASAKTIS who,
Vasudeva 337
 in southern India, rank higher than the SAPTA
MATARAS. She sits upon a boar, buffalo or ele
phant. Attributes: boar’s head, bow, club, cup,
 knife, noose, plough, sword and trident.
 Varahmukhi (having a boars head)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of MARICI. Attributes: arrow, bow, flower
 and staff.
 Varali
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant on MARICI. Color: white. Attributes: flower,
 needle, noose and staff.
 Vari-Ma-Te-Takere (the very beginning)
 Mother goddess. Polynesian [Hervey Islands].
 The creator being who lives at the very bottom of
 the world coconut, sitting in a cramped space
 with her knees and chin touching. She lives in
 Te-Enua-Te-Ki (mute land) in eternal silence and
 is the mother of six children, all deities, three of
 which she plucked from her right side and three
 from her left. 
See also AVATEA, TINIRAU, TANGO, TUMU
TEANAOA, RAKA and TU-METUA.
 VARUNA (coverer)
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic, Puranic and early Tamil)
 [India]. Major guardian deity.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1700 BC until
 present.
 SYNONYMS none.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT throughout India but as a
 rain god in the south.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs in metal
 and stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda, etc.
 Varuna is one of the major Vedic gods, concerned
 with the secure operation of the world’s systems
 and of water. Lord of the ASURA class of deities, he
 is thought to equate with the Persian deity Ahura
 MAZDA. In later times, a dikpala or guardian of the
 western direction. He is also regarded as an
 ADITYA or sun god, the son of Kardama and con
sort of GAURI.
 In southern India he is still worshiped during
 periods of drought, particularly in coastal regions
 where he is thought to live in trees.
 In Vedic times his sacred animal was the ram. He
 rides upon a fish or sea monster, or in a chariot
 drawn by seven horses. Attributes: conch, lotus,
 parasol, sacred thread, snake noose, trident and
 water jar with jewels. Pot-bellied and four-headed.
 Vasantadevi
 Goddess of spring. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 Particularly known from Tibet, where she
 appears in the retinue of SRIDEVI. Her animal is a
 mule. Attributes: cup and sword.
 Vasita (willpower)
 Generic title for a group of goddesses. Hindu.
 Twelve deities who personify the disciplines
 which result in spiritual regeneration.
 Vasu(s) (excellent)
 Generic title for a group of gods. Hindu (Vedic).
 Eight deities attendant on the Vedic weather god
 INDRA, comprising day, dawn, fire, moon, pole
 star, sun, water and wind. Generally carrying a
 rosary and with a SAKTI.
 Vasudeva
 God. Hindu. The princely father of KRSNA and
 BALARAMA. Consorts include DEVAKI, ROHINI, etc.
338 Vasudhara
 Vasudhara (treasurer)
 1. Fertility goddess. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). The SAKTI of Kuvera.
 See also KUBERA.
 2. Goddess. Buddhist. A female bodhisattva or
 buddha-designate who is the Sakti of Vajrasattva
 and a form of AKSOBHYA or RATNASAMBHAVA.
 Color: yellow. Attributes: book, ear of rice,
 images of Aksobhya and Ratnasambhava on the
 crown, parasol, pearl and waterjar with jewels.
 Vasumatisri (beautiful with an excellent mind)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of VASUDHARA.
 Vasusri (beautiful one)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of VASUDHARA.
 Vasya-tara (the subjected Tara)
 Goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AMOGHASIDDHI and considered to be indistin
guishable from ARYA-TARA. Color: green. Attrib
utes: blue lotus and image of Amoghasiddhi on
 the crown.
 Vata
 God of wind. Hindu (Vedic) and Persian [Iran].
 The name appears in the Rg Veda as a deity of vio
lent personality. According to Asvestan tradition
 the god of victory, VERETHRAGNA, appeared to
 Zarathustra in the guise of Vata.
 Vatapattrasayin (reclining on a fig leaf)
 Aspect of VIS ˇNU. Hindu (Puranic). The image is
 found in classical bronze sculptures and repre
sents either Visˇnu in a violent form, or KRSNA,
 reposed on a fig leaf that floats upon the primeval
 ocean of a new cosmos after the previous world
 order has been destroyed.
 VAYU (1) (the wind)
 ORIGIN Hindu [India]. God of the winds. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1700 BC to
 present.
 SYNONYMS PAVANA.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT none specific.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and carvings in
 metal and stone.
 LITERARY SOURCES the Vedic texts, including Rg
 Veda.
 One of the most important deities of the Vedas. In
 later Hinduism he evolves into a dikpala or
 guardian of the northwestern quarter. He is also
 depicted in some texts as a chariot-driver for the
 god AGNI. Color: dark blue. Attributes: arrow,
 hook, prayer wheel, staff and waterjar.
 Vayu (2)
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the
 northwestern quarter.
 Vayukumara
 God. Jain [India]. One of the groups under the
 general title of BHVANAVASI (dwelling in places). Of
 youthful appearance.
 Ve
 God. Nordic (Icelandic). Listed by Snorri in the
 Prose Edda as one of the sons of Bori and, among
 the gods of Asgard, the brother of OTHIN and
 VILI. The three gods are said to have made the
 land and sea out of the flesh and blood of the
 primeval giant Ymir.
 See also BURI.
Ve’ai (grass woman)
 Verbti 339
 Venkata
 Vegetation spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The personification of the grasslands and their
 guardian deity. She is perceived as a shamanka and
 is the consort of EME’MQUT.
 Veive
 Minor god. Etruscan. A youthful deity whose
 attributes include arrows. His animal is a goat.
 Veja Mate
 Goddess of winds. Pre-Christian Latvian. Also
 responsible for birds and woodlands.
 Velaute’mtilan (sedge man)
 Vegetation spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The personification of the sedges and there
fore guardian of the boggy tundras and their 
animals.
 Veles
 Chthonic underworld god. Slav. Also identified as
 the “cattle god.” Also Volos.
 Velu Mate
 Chthonic underworld goddess. Pre-Christian
 Latvian. The “queen of the dead.” She is depicted
 wearing white and she greets the dead at the
 cemetery.
 Venda
 Creator god. Dravidian (Tamil) [southern India].
 An ancient vegetation deity. Worshiped in vil
lages on the plains, thought to live in trees and
 equated with Indra.
 Form of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). According to the Aditya Purana,
 Venkata is a deity of considerable importance in
 southern India. The name does not occur in the
 north. He is worshiped extensively by Hindus but
 particularly in the Tamil shrine of Tirupati where
 there is argument that the deity depicted is S ˇIVA
 or KARTTIKEYA. The image appears to carry
 attributes of Visˇnu on the left and S ˇiva on the
 right. Also Venkatesa.
 VENUS
 ORIGIN Roman. Goddess of sexual love and
 beauty.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS APHRODITE(Greek); Dione; Cytherea.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT various; Eryx [Sicily] (as
 Venus Erycina).
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures including the
 Venus of Milo.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 The name is neuter in form but Venus is modeled
 on the Greek goddess Aphrodite. In Roman
 mythology she is a daughter of JUPITER and Dione.
 Her consorts include Mars and the ill-fated ADO
NIS. She is also linked romantically with Anchises,
 King of Troy. She is a goddess of gardens. In the
 second century AD the Emperor Hadrian dedicated
 a sanctuary to her on the Via Sacra in Rome; it was
 restored as late as the fourth century. 
Venus was celebrated in the Veneralia festival on
 April 1.
 Verbti
 God of fire. Pre-Christian Albanian. He is asso
ciated with the north winds. Under Christian
 influence he becomes identified with the devil.
340 Verethragna
 Verethragna
 God of victories. Persian [Iran]. He is embodied
 by the wild boar which possesses iron-shod feet to
 crush opponents and is perceived to be present in
 the wind.
 Vervactor
 Minor god of ploughing. Roman. Associated with
 sacrifices to TELLUS and CERES.
 Vertumnus
 Minor god of gardens and orchards. Roman. Of
 Etruscan origin, he is the consort of the goddess
 POMONA. Usually represented with garden
 implements and offered fruit and flowers. He was
 celebrated annually in the Vertumnalia festival on
 August 13.
 VESTA
 ORIGIN Roman. Goddess of fire and the hearth.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to 
AD 400.
 SYNONYMS HESTIA (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT many sanctuaries through
out Italy, but centered on the circular temple 
in Rome where allegedly the Palladium of
 Troy with the sacred flame of the gods was
 preserved.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures and reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 Vesta was worshiped with considerable celebra
tion in the various public Vestalia festivals, but she
 was also popular as a household guardian. She
 enjoyed a small sanctuary at the foot of the Pala
tine Hill. She is generally depicted as a woman of
 great beauty holding a lighted torch and a votive
 bowl. 
Her mortal attendants are the Vestal Virgins,
 selected for office as guardians of the sacred flame
 from the age of six for a minimum of thirty years,
 during which they were expected to maintain
 strict vows of chastity on penalty of burial alive.
 The Vestals dressed in white gowns edged with
 purple and were highly respected members of
 Roman society, enjoying many privileges. During
 Vestalia festivals, donkeys were decked with
 wreaths. The worship of Vesta was abolished by
 the Emperor Theodosius in AD 380.
 Vetali
 Goddess of terrifying appearance. Buddhist
Lamaist [Tibet]. One of a group of gauri. Color:
 red. Attribute: a chain.
 Victoria
 Goddess of victory. Roman. Known particularly
 from the second century BC and closely linked
 with JUPITER. Became adopted by the Christian
 church in an angelic capacity.
 Vidar
 God of war. Nordic (Icelandic). A little known
 AESIR god, described as the silent one. One of the
 sons of OTHIN. An alternative tradition places
 him as the offspring of a brief liaison between
 THOR and the giantess Gird. A god of great
 strength and support in times of danger. The
 prospective avenger of Othin’s death by the wolf
 Fenrir at Ragnarok, he is said to wear a shoe
 made of material collected throughout time
 which he will place between Fenrir’s jaws before
 he tears them apart and runs the beast through
 with his sword. One of the survivors of the final
 great fire and flood, destined to live in Asgard’s
 successor, Idavoll.
Vidyadevi
 Vimala 341
 Generic title for a group of goddesses. Jain
 [India]. Sixteen deities led by SARASVATI who are
 associated with knowledge or learning.
 Vidyapati-Lokesvara
 God. (Buddhist). A variety of the BODHISATTVA
 AVALOKITESVARA. Depicted resting on a lotus, his
 attributes include a fly-whisk.
 Vidyesvara
 Generic title for a group of deities. Hindu. Eight
 liberated or emancipated “beings” who are con
sidered to be aspects of S ˇIVA.
 Vidyraja
 Tutelary god. Buddhist (Mahayana). One of sev
eral deities who are concerned with the imple
mentation of the law.
 Vidyujjvalakarili (tongues of fire)
 Goddess. Buddhist. A twelve-headed form of
 Akajata who is said to have been formed in the
 BUDDHA’s sweat. She is often depicted trampling
 the four Hindu deities BRAHMA, INDRA, S ˇIVA and
 VISˇNU. Color: blue or black. Attributes: many
 and varied.
 Vidyutkumara
 God. Jain [India]. Belonging to one of the groups
 under the general title of BHVANAVASI (dwelling in
 places). Of youthful appearance.
 Vighnantaka (remover of obstacles)
 God. Buddhist (Mahayana). An emanation of
 AKSOBHYA who may equate with the Hindu god
 GANESA. Color: blue. He is also seen as a dikpala
 or guardian of the northerly direction, in which
 case his color is green. Attributes: cup, drum,
 hook, knife, noose and staff. Three-headed. Also
 Analarka.
 Vighnesvaranugramurti
 Family of deities. Hindu (Puranic). A popular
 depiction in art of S ˇIVA (colored black) and Par
vati with their son GANESA after he has been
 decapitated by his father and given the head of an
 elephant by way of replacement.
 Vijaya (victory)
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). An EKADASARU
DRA (one of the eleven RUDRA deities).
 Hiranyaksa is considered one of his incarnations.
 Attributes: club, knife, rosary and staff. Vijaya is
 also the name of the bow of INDRA.
 Vikalaratri (twilight night)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An atten
dant of BUDDHAKAPALA.
 Vili
 God. Nordic (Icelandic). Listed by Snorri in Prose
 Edda as one of the sons of Bori and, among the
 gods of Asgard, the brother of OTHIN and VE.
 The three gods are said to have made the land and
 sea out of the flesh and blood of the primeval
 giant Ymir.
 See also BURI.
 Vimala (stainless)
 Minor goddess. Buddhist (Vajrayana). One of sev
eral deified BHUMIS recognized as different spir
itual spheres through which a disciple passes.
 Color: white. Attributes: lotus and staff.
342 Vina
 Virtus
 Vina
 Goddess of music. Buddhist. The personification
 of a lute. Color: yellow. Attribute: a lute.
 Vindhya
 Mountain god. Hindu. Personification of the hills
 forming the northern edge of the Deccan area of
 central India.
 Virabhadra (great hero)
 War god. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). Considered
 to be a form of S ˇIVA, and occasionally of VIS ˇNU,
 Virabhadra acts as a martial aspect of S ˇiva against
 the god DAKSA, who according to some accounts
 abused S ˇiva’s wife SATI and drove her to angry sui
cide by self-immolation to avenge the slight. He
 is depicted bearing four arms. Attributes: arrow,
 bow, shield and sword. He sometimes wears a
 necklace of skulls. Three-eyed and three-headed.
 Viraj
 Primordial goddess. Hindu (Vedic). Identified as
 the active female creative principle in the Rg Veda.
 Viraratri (night of courage)
 Hindu. 
See also CHINNAMASTAKA.
 Virbius
 Minor chthonic god. Roman. A malevolent
 underworld deity who was frequently invoked
 during the worship of Diana in the Arician wood
lands surrounding her sanctuary at Nemi. Vir
bius was reputed to prowl these woods and to be
 an emanation of Hippolytus, a mortal who had
 been trampled to death by his horses and made
 immortal by Aesculapius. For this reason the Ari
cian woods were barred to horses.
 God of military prowess. Roman. Known partic
ularly from the second century BC.
 Virudhaka (sprouted)
 God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the
 southerly direction. Color: blue or green. Attrib
utes: skin from the head of an elephant and sword.
 Also identified as the head of a group of demons,
 the kumbhandas.
 Virupaksa (misinformed eyes)
 1. God. Hindu. Epithet of S ˇIVA and one of the
 EKADASARUDRAS or eleven RUDRA deities. Attrib
utes: ax, bell, club, cup, drum, hook, knife, lotus,
 prayer wheel, rosary, Sakti and sword. Three
headed.
 2. God. Buddhist. A dikpala or guardian of the
 western direction. God of snakes. Color: red.
 Attributes: jewel, snake and stupa or domed
 shrine.
 Viryaparamita
 Philosophical deity. Buddhist. Spiritual offspring
 of RATNASAMBHAVA. Color: green. Attributes: blue
 lotus and jeweled banner.
 VIS ˇNU
 ORIGIN Hindu (Vedic, Epic and Puranic) [India].
 One of a triad of creator gods.
 KNOWNPERIODOFWORSHIP possibly from circa
 1700 BC until the present day.
 SYNONYMS appearing as ten major incarnations
 or 
avataras: MATSYA, KURMA, Varcha,
 Narashima, VAMANA, PARASURAMA, RAMA,
 KRSNA or BALARAMA, BUDDHA, and KALKI(N).
 Other epithets include Abjaja, Abjayoni,
 Adhoksaja, Anantasayana, Aniruddha.
Visvamitra 343
 CENTER(S) OF CULT many sanctuaries through
out the subcontinent.
 ART REFERENCES sculptures generally in bronze;
 but also in stone. Reliefs.
 LITERARY SOURCES Rg Veda; Mahabharata and
 Ramayana epics; Puranic literature.
 Visˇnu began, according to the Vedas, as a minor
 cosmic deity imagined striding the sky in three
 giant steps—rising, zenith and setting. He was
 never a solar god, but became briefly associated
 with the movements of the sun in the sky.
 Vis ˇnu’s prestige developed with the Epics and of
 the three deities making up the apex of the modern
 Hindu pantheon, he is the most widely worshiped
 and pre-eminent (see also BRAHMA and S ˇIVA). The
 keeper of civilized morality and order. In the
 Mahabharata, he is partly identified with Krsna.
 According to one Puranic legendary source, Vis ˇnu
 was created from the left side of the primordial cre
ator force. The Puranas also provide complex clas
sifications for various aspects of Vis ˇnu. His most
 frequent consort is the goddess of fortune, LAKSMI,
 with whom he is often depicted standing or resting
 on a lotus. His sacred animal is GARUDA.
 Visˇnu is the preserver of the world. He rules real
 time, or history, and through the concept of karma
 he maintains a moral balance which he corrects
 occasionally in the guise of one of his incarna
tions. He is a chief adversary of YAMA, the god of
 the dead, and has the power to repel death. He is
 also closely identified with sacred water or NARA,
 his presence pervading the Ganges. He is believed
 to sleep for four months each year, resting on the
 serpent SESA with a lotus sprouting from his navel,
 after which he is roused by a special rite.
 The followers of Visˇnu are the Vaisnavas and
 are mainly in the north of India, though there
 exists a strong following among the Tamils in the
 south. The Vaisnava caste mark is a V-shaped sign
 identified with water which has a property of
 descending.
 Visˇnu is depicted with many heads or with four
 heads, generally with four arms, typically holding
 a wide assortment of attributes including conch
 and prayer wheel. He may also carry a discus,
 which reflects a destructive aspect, a mace of
 authority and a lotus. Around his neck may be
 the sacred stone, the kausrabha, and typically he
 has an obvious shock of chest hair.
 Vis ˇnu Trivikrama
 Form of the god VISˇNU. Hindu (Epic and
 Puranic). Trivikrama is the transformation into a
 giant from Visˇnu’s dwarf avatara VAMANA, in
 order to confirm his dominance over the world by
 covering it in three huge strides.
 Visvakarman (architect of the universe)
 Poorly defined creator god. Hindu (Vedic). Sim
ilar to DYAUS PITAR, he is described as the artist
 of the gods who may be linked or identified with
 TVASTAR. He evolved, as the son of PRABHASA
 and Yogasiddha, into an occasional consort of the
 mother goddess SARASVATI.
 Visvaksena (the all-conquering)
 Minor god. Hindu (Puranic). The bodyguard
 and gatekeeper of VISˇNU. Tradition maintains
 that Visvaksena was slain by S ˇIVA when he
 refused the latter an audience with Visˇnu. For
 this reason he is generally depicted in the form
 of a skeleton impaled on the trident weapon 
carried by S ˇiva in his aspect of KANKALAMURTI.
 His attributes include a wheel, club and conch
 shell.
 Visvamitra
 Minor god. Hindu (Puranic). According to 
legend, the father of the god NARADA.
344 Visvarupa
 Visvarupa
 Lesser known incarnation of the god VISˇNU.
 Hindu. In Vedic literature he is identified as the
 son of TVASTAR. Visˇnu took the avatara at the
 request of ARJUNA. His animal is GARUDA. Attrib
utes: many. Also Viratapurusa.
 Visvosnisa
 God. Buddhist. An USNISA apparently connected
 with the guardian deities or dikpalas in the
 southerly direction. Color: green.
 Vitthali
 God. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). A lesser known
 incarnation of the god VIS ˇNU (or KRSNA). The
 cult of Vitthali is centered mainly on Panharpur,
 near Bombay, where he is the object of devotion
 by the Varkari sect. Generally depicted standing
 on a brick, wearing a fez-like hat and with hands
 on hips. Also Vithoba; Panduranga.
 Vitzilipuztli
 Aspect of HUITZILPOCHTLI. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican). Invoked twice a year, in May
 and December, during an agrarian festival. 
Virginal female worshipers created an image of
 the deity from dough consisting of maize 
flour, beet seed and honey. The image was given
 eyes and teeth using pieces of colored glass and
 whole maize seeds and was paraded, before
 being broken into pieces and eaten as a form of
 sacrament.
 Vivasvan (shining)
 Sun god. Hindu (Vedic and Puranic). The orig
inal Vedic list of six descendants of the goddess
 ADITI or ADITYAS, all of whom take the role of
 sun gods was, in later times, enlarged to twelve,
 including Vivasvan. One of his titles is the
 “embodiment of ancestral law.” His consort is
 SARANYU and he is identified as the father of
 YAMA and YAMI, as well as MANU and the
 ASVINS. His color is golden and his attributes a
 forest garland, two lotuses and a trident. Also
 Vivasvat.
 Vodu
 Collective name for gods. Fon [Benin, West
 Africa]. The origin of the term voodoo in the
 Caribbean region.
 Voltumna
 Tutelary god. Etruscan. Originally a vegetation
 deity who was elevated to the position of supreme
 god in the Etruscan pantheon and known in
 Roman culture as VERTUMNUS.
 Volumna
 Nursery goddess. Roman. The guardian deity of
 the nursery and of infants.
 Vor
 Goddess. Nordic (Icelandic). Of Germanic ori
gin, one of the AESIR goddesses listed by Snorri in
 Prose Edda. He suggests that Vor may be con
cerned with the making of oaths and of marriage
 agreements, punishing those who break them.
 Possibly also Var(a), though Snorri lists her as a
 separate Aesir goddess.
 Vosegus
 Mountain god. Romano-Celtic. A local deity
 from the Vosges known only from inscriptions.
Vrtra
 Vyasa 345
 Demonic god of chaos. Hindu (Vedic). A pri
mordial being who existed before the formation
 of the cosmos and who was slain by the mother
 goddess SARASVATI.
 VULCANUS
 ORIGIN Roman. God of fire and forges. 
KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 400 BC to
 circa AD 400.
 SYNONYMS HEPHAISTOS (Greek).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT tutelary god at the sea port
 of Ostia.
 ART REFERENCES various sculptures and relief
 carvings.
 LITERARY SOURCES Aeneid (Virgil), etc.
 The patron god of artisans and blacksmiths,
 Vulcanus is modeled closely on the Greek 
Hephaistos. Attached to the smithy and rarely
 ascending Olympus, in Roman genealogy he is
 the son of JUPITER and JUNO. He is generally
 depicted as a rather grotesque figure with one
 leg shorter than the other, a deformity gained as
 a result of being hurled to earth by Jupiter while
 trying to protect his mother from the god’s
 wrath. Thereafter he determined to shun the
 company of other gods and set up home in the
 heart of Mount Etna, where he fashioned a
 giant forge. His workers are the one-eyed
 Cyclopes. He created a golden throne for 
Juno and he fashioned both Jupiter’s magical
 thunderbolts and Cupid’s arrows. He enjoyed
 short-term relationships with various goddesses,
 including VENUS and MINERVA, and with one 
of the Graces. His offspring seem generally 
to have been monstrous. He was celebrated 
in the Vulcanalia festival on August 23, which 
coincides with the period of greatest drought
 and the highest risk of fire in Italy.
 Vyasa
 Minor incarnation of the god VISˇNU. Hindu
 (Vedic, Epic and Puranic). Vyasa is said to be the
 author of the Vedas, the Mahabharata epic and
 the Puranas. He ranks with Hyagriva and SARAS
VATI as a lord of knowledge and wisdom, and is
 responsible for dividing the Tree of Knowlege
 into parts. In the texts he is depicted as dark
skinned and accompanied by four students,
 Sumanta, Paila, Vaisampayana and Jaimini. He
 may be bearded. Also Vedavyasa.
6
 W
 Wadd
 Moon god. Pre-Islamic southern Arabian. His
 sacred animal is the snake.
 Wadj Wer (the mighty green one)
 Fertility god. Egyptian. Sometimes depicted in
 androgynous form, he personifies the Mediter
ranean Sea or the major lakes of the Nile delta.
 He is depicted carrying the ankh symbol of life,
 and a loaf. The figure often appears pregnant and
 is associated with the richness of the Nile delta
 waters.
 Wadjet
 Goddess of royal authority. Egyptian. Wadjet
 takes the form of a fire-breathing cobra and, as
 the uraeus symbol worn on the headdress of 
the ruler, she epitomizes the power of sover
eignty. She is a goddess of Lower Egypt equat
ing to NEKHBET in Upper Egypt, with her main
 cult center at Buto (Tell el-Farain) in the Nile
 delta. She forms an integral part of the symbol
ism of the sun god RE, coiling around the sun
 disc to symbolize Re’s powers of destruction.
 According to mythology, she created the
 papyrus swamps of the delta. She is described as
 a wet nurse to the god HORUS and is the mother
 of the god of the primeval lotus blossom,
 NEFERTUM.
 Wai
 Sun god. Ntomba [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. Probably originating as a
 god of hunters who protects and controls the
 animals in the forest. He has a son, Mokele.
 Waka
 Creator god. Oromo [Ethiopia]. Largely syn
cretized with the Christian god, but regularly
 invoked in the morning.
 Waka-Hiru-Me
 Sun goddess. Shinto [Japan]. Arguably the
 younger sister of the great Shinto sun goddess
 AMATERASU, or an early manifestation, she is asso
ciated with the morning sunrise. Also involved
 with weaving the garments of the KAMI.
 Wakan Tanka
 Creator god. Dakota Indian [USA]. A remote and
 vaguely defined deity invoked by the shamans of
 the tribe. Also a generic term equating to the
 346
Wer 347
 spirit which, in an animistic and shamanistic reli
gion, all things existing in nature possess.
 Waka-Sa-Na-Me-No-Kami
 Agricultural goddess. Shinto [Japan]. The deity
 specifically concerned with the transplanting of
 young rice. A daughter of Ha-Yama-To-No-Kami
 and O-Ge-Tsu-Hime. Generally served by Bud
dhist priests. See also WAKA-TOSHI-NO-KAMI and
 KUKU-TOSHI-NO-KAMI.
 Waka-Toshi-No-Kami
 Agricultural god. Shinto [Japan]. The deity
 specifically concerned with the growing of young
 rice. A son of Ha-Yama-To-No-Kami and O-Ge
Tsu-Hime. Generally served by Buddhist priests. 
See also WAKA-SA-NA-ME-NO-KAMI and
 KUKU-TOSHI-NO-KAMI.
 Wakonda
 Creator god. Omaha Indian [USA]. A remote and
 vaguely defined deity invoked by the shamans of
 the tribe. Also a generic term equating to the
 spirit which, in an animistic and shamanistic reli
gion, all things existing in nature possess.
 Wamala
 God of plenty. Bunyoro [Uganda, East Africa]. A
 sanctuary has existed near the royal palace and
 Wamala is propitiated to give the boon of chil
dren, domestic animals and crops. He is also seen
 in an oracular capacity and has an official inter
mediary.
 Wanka
 Guardian spirit. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of a tall
 stone or boulder (HUACA) set upright in the cen
ter of a field.
 Waralden Olmai
 Tutelary god. Lappish [Finland]. Revered as a
 creator and guardian deity.
 Wawki
 Guardian spirit. Inca (pre-Columbian South
 America) [Peru, etc]. The apotheosis of a stone or
 HUACAwhich each Inca emperor carried with him
 as a personal tutelary deity. The object was known
 as a “brother.”
 Weng Shiang
 God of literature. Taoist (Chinese). His name
 tablet hangs on the wall in many Chinese houses.
 Wepwawet
 God of passage. Egyptian. Depicted as a jackal,
 Wepwawet began as a god of Upper Egypt, but
 his cult spread along the whole of the Nile valley.
 According to Pyramid Texts, he was born beneath
 a tamarisk tree in the sanctuary of the goddess
 WADJETat Buto. He is also closely linked with the
 falcon god HORUS. He is perceived preceding the
 ruler either to or from battle, or to the afterlife,
 when his adze is used to break open the mouth of
 the dead person. In a similar context he is linked
 to the sun god RE when he “opens the dawn sky”
 to the deceased. As a god of passage, he also opens
 the way to the womb.
 Wer
 Storm god. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). A minor deity linked with ADAD and
 AMURRU. His attendant is the fierce guardian of
348 Weri Kumbamba
 Wi
 the pine forest, Huwawa, the focus of one of the
 Gilgamesˇ epic sagas. Cult centers include Afis,
 south of Aleppo.
 Weri Kumbamba
 Creator god. Gishu [Uganda, East Africa]. A deity
 embodied in rocks and specifically invoked before
 and after circumcision to ensure the speedy
 recovery of the patient.
 Whiro
 God of death. Polynesian and Maori. Regarded as
 an errant son of the creator deities, RANGINUI
 and PAPATUANUKU, Whiro stands as the chief
 antagonist of TANEMAHUTA, the creator god of
 light. He is, therefore, the personification of dark
ness and evil. During the time of creation from
 chaos, Whiro is said to have fought an epic battle
 against Tanemahuta in the newly formed heavens.
 He was vanquished and forced to descend into the
 underworld where he became ruler over the dead
 and chief among the lesser underworld deities
 who are responsible for various forms of disease
 and sickness. In the temporal world the lizard, a
 symbol of death, embodies him, and various crea
tures of the night, including the owl and the bat,
 are earthly representatives from his kingdom, as
 are such malignant insect pests as the mosquito.
 This deity is not to be confused with the leg
endary human voyager and adventurer of the
 same name whose traditions have, in the past,
 often been muddled with those of the god.
 Whope
 Goddess. Sioux [USA]. The daughter of WI, the
 sun god, and consort of the south wind. She is
 credited with giving the Sioux Indian the pipe of
 peace through which (narcotic) they commune
 with the great spirit WAKAN TANKA.
 Sun god. Sioux [USA]. The father of the goddess
 WHOPE, his sacred animal is the bison.
 Windigo
 Ice god. Ojibwa [Canada]. A terrible being
 formed of ice who symbolizes the starvation of
 winter. There are said to be many windigos, but
 they are always referred to in the singular. Can
nibalistic, the windigo appears as an ice skeleton
 and a human being can be turned into one
 through possession.
 Wiu
 God of war. Nuer [Sudan]. The word means
 spear.
 WODAN
 ORIGIN Germanic. God of war.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP prehistoric times
 until circa AD 500.
 SYNONYMS Wotan; Woden (Anglo-Saxon).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT scattered forest sanctuaries.
 ART REFERENCES stone carvings and engravings
 on metal.
 LITERARY SOURCES Germania (Tacitus); Gothic
 War (Procopius); History of the Goths (Jordanes);
 Geography (Strabo); History of the World 
(Orosius).
 Wodan may have possessed similar characteristics
 to OTHIN, believed to have been a Norse descen
dant of Wodan. Germanic tribes including the
 Heruli, the Celtic Cimbri and the Goths all prac
ticed sacrificial appeasement rites to Wodan,
 including stabbing and burning. The Cimbri
 hung their captives over bronze caldrons while
 priestesses cut their throats. Booty, including
 mutilated weapons, gold and silver, animals and
Wu’squus 349
 human sacrifices who had been hanged, strangled
 or had their throats cut, was also thrown into
 sacred lakes as sacrifices for Wodan.
 The classical writers substituted the name of
 the Roman god Mercury, thus the same day of the
 week is called Wednesday in English but mercredi
 in French. Many Anglo-Saxon kings traced their
 royal lineage back to Wodan as divine ancestor.
 Wong Taisin (the great immortal Wong)
 God. Chinese. Probably an incarnation or
 avatara of the god HUANG TI (the yellow
 emperor), he is considered benevolent. Closely
 associated with a district in Kowloon which is
 named after him. His cult arrived in Hong Kong
 in 1915 from Kwangtung in the form of a paint
ing brought by a man and his son. It was installed
 in a small temple in Wanchai. In 1921 a larger
 sanctuary was built, from public funds, facing the
 sea and backed by Lion Rock.
 Wosret
 Localized guardian goddess. Egyptian. With a
 cult center at Thebes, Wosret is, according to
 some inferences, an early consort of the creator
 god AMUN and was superseded by MUT. She is
 identified with the protection of the young god
 HORUS. Also Wosyet.
 Wu
 Sea god. Ewe [Benin, West Africa]. His priest,
 the Wu-no, invokes the god whenever the
 weather is too severe for the fishing boats to land.
 He is propitiated with offerings delivered from
 the shore and in past times was occasionally
 appeased with human sacrifice taken out to sea
 and thrown overboard.
 Wuriupranili
 Sun goddess. Australian aboriginal. The posi
tion of Wuriupranili in the godly hierarchy is
 unclear, but mythology explains that she carries
 a burning torch made from tree bark and 
that she travels from east to west each day 
before descending to the western sea and using
 the embers to light her way through the under
world beneath the earth. The colors of the 
sunrise and sunset are said to be a reflection of
 the red ocher body paints with which she adorns
 herself.
 Wu’squus
 Spirit of darkness. Chukchee [eastern Siberia].
 The personification of the night and the sibling
 of NA’CHITNA’IRGIN, the spirit of the left-hand
 dawn.
6
 X
 Xaya Iccita
 Mountain spirit. Yakut [central Siberia]. The
 owner or master of the mountains.
 Xewioso
 Thunder god. Ewe. [Benin, West Africa].
 Depicted as a ram accompanied by an ax, he is
 also perceived as a fertility deity whose thunder
 and lightning are accompanied by rain.
 Xil Sga’nagwai
 Medicine god. Haida Indian [Queen Charlotte
 Island, Canada]. Said to appear as a raven.
 Xilonen
 Minor vegetation goddess. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. An aspect of the maize
 goddess Chicomecoatl, personifying the young
 maize plant.
 XIPE TOTEC (our lord the flayed one)
 ORIGIN Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico].
 Vegetation god.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa AD 750 to 
AD 1500, but probably much earlier.
 SYNONYMS Red Tezcatlipoca.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Teotihuacan, Tenochtitlan.
 ART REFERENCES stone sculptures, murals and
 codex illustrations.
 LITERARY SOURCES pre-Columbian codices.
 A major deity of the Mesoamerican pantheons.
 The red avatara of the sun god TEZCATLIPOCA
 (see also MIXCOATL-CAMAXTLI). God of spring
 and a symbol of the annual renewal of vegetation.
 Often represented in ritual by a priest wearing the
 flayed skin of a human sacrifice, seen to be the
 new vegetation of the earth which emerges after
 the rains. The skin was worn for twenty-one days.
 Xipe Totec is also the tutelary god of precious
 metallurgists, including goldsmiths.
 Xiuhtecuhtli
 Astral god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican) [Mex
ico]. The ruler of the first or lowest of the thir
teen heavens known at the time of the Spanish
 conquest, Tlalticpac (on the earth).
 Xochiquetzal
 Goddess of fertility and childbirth. Aztec (classi
cal Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. The mother of the
 demigoddess (unnamed) whose consort was Piltz
350
Xolotl Nanahuatl 351
 intecuhtli and who engendered the first mortals
 Oxomoco and CIPACTONAL. One of the group
 classed as the TETEOINNAN complex. A popular
 deity among Aztec women, the goddess is invoked
 particularly to make a marriage fruitful. The bride
 plaits her hair and coils it around, leaving two
 “plumes” representing the feathers of the Quetzal
 which is sacred to Xochiquetzal. Pottery figurines
 are adorned with plumes of feathers. Worshiped
 at various sites, including Tula (Hidalgo). Also
 recognized as the patron goddess of weavers.
 Xochiquetzal-Ichpuchtli (maiden)
 Minor fertility goddess. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the group
 classed as the TETEOINNAN complex. Depicted
 as a youthful deity associated with sexual love,
 flowers and pleasure.
 Xolotl (monster)
 Monstrous deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. He performed the role of executioner
 when the gods sacrificed themselves to create
 mankind. He then sacrificed himself. In alternative
 tradition he tried to evade his own fate, but was
 himself executed by EHECATL-QUETZALCOATL.
 Also one of a pair of twins in the group classed as
 the XIUHTECUHTLI complex, regarded as patron
 of the ball game.
 Xolotl Nanahuatl (rumour)
 Monstrous deity. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the
 XIUHTECUHTLI complex, described as a twin of
 XOLOTL and co-patron of ball games.
6
 Y
 Yacacoliuhqui (curved nose)
 Minor god of commerce and merchants. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 group classed as the YACATECUHTLI complex.
 Yacahuiztli (nose spine)
 Underworld goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. With her consort YACATECUHTLI
 she engendered the night in Aztec cosmogony.
 One of the group classed as the MICTLANTE
CUHTLI complex.
 Yacapitzahuac (sheep-nose)
 Minor god of commerce and merchants. Aztec
 (classical Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. One of the
 group classed as the YACATECUHTLI complex.
 Yacatecuhtli (nose lord)
 God of commerce and merchants. Aztec (classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Head of the group
 classed as the Yacatecuhtli complex.
 Ya’china’ut (moon woman)
 Moon spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia]. The
 personification of the moon.
 Yah
 Moon god. Egyptian. Yah may have been an
 import to Egypt brought by Semitic immigrants
 who based his profile on the Mesopotamian god
 SIN. He is mentioned largely from the twentieth
 century BC onward and is depicted in human
 form, but can also be represented by the falcon
 and the ibis.
 Ya’halan (cloud man)
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 The son of the supreme being TENANTO’MWAN,
 his consort is YINE’ANE’UT. In alternative tradi
tion he is the son of the supervisor being,
 INA’HITELAN. He is a protector of young couples,
 and youths beat a sacred drum invoking the spirit
 to turn the heart of a girl.
 Ya’halna’ut  
Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 Yajna (sacrifice)
 God. Hindu. A minor avatara of VISˇNU and
 embodiment of the Brahmanic ritual.
 352
Yaksas
 Yamm 353
 Yamaduti
 Tree spirits. Hindu. Generic title for animistic
 beings mentioned circa fifth century BC by
 Panini.
 Yaldabaoth
 Creator God. Gnostic Christian. The so-called
 “prime parent” of Gnostic cosmogony, engen
dered by PISTIS SOPHIA out of the nothingness of
 chaos, provided with form and given charge over
 the substance of the cosmos.
 Yaldabaoth is, at first, unaware of the existence
 of Pistis Sophia and, by his own powers, engen
ders seven androgynous beings, placing them in
 seven heavens. He decrees himself alone and all
powerful, whereupon Pistis Sophia names him
 SAMAEL (blind god). Of his offspring, the most
 significant is SABAOTH, who stands against his
 father and on the side of Pistis Sophia. When she
 eventually reveals herself to Yaldabaoth as pure
 radiant light, he is humbled.
 Yama (twin; alternatively the restrainer)
 1. God of death. Hindu (Vedic). The son of
 Vavasvan and Saranju, or of SURYA and SANJNA,
 his consort is DHUMORNA or YAMI. Yama is also
 the judge of the dead and the twin sibling of Yami,
 goddess of death. 
When KRSNA is perceived as the embodiment
 of the cosmos, his eye-teeth are Yama. He evolved
 into a dikpala or guardian of the southerly direc
tion. His animal is a black buffalo. Color: black. 
2. Guardian deity. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet].
 One of a group of DHARMAPALA with terrible
 appearance and royal attire who guard the Dalai
 Lama. He stands upon a man. His colors may be
 red, blue, white or yellow. His attributes are
 most commonly a noose and staff, but may also
 be a club, a net, a shield, a sword, a trident and
 two tusks.
 Messenger goddess. Buddhist (Mahayana). An
 attendant of YAMA. Her vehicle is a buffalo. Color:
 blue. Attributes: cup, fly whisk, knife and lotus.
 Yama-No-Kami
 Mountain god. Shinto [Japan]. Specifically the
 deity who comes down to the rice paddies in
 spring and returns in autumn. The festival of No
lde-No-Shinji marks his descent.
 Yamantaka (destroyer of Yama)
 Guardian deity. Buddhist-Lamaist [Tibet]. An
 emanation of AKSOBHYA and one of a group of
 DHARMAPALA with terrible appearance and royal
 attire who guard the Dalai Lama. By tradition he
 stifled the great rage of YAMA. His SAKTI is
 Vidyadhara. He is also a dikpala or guardian of the
 easterly direction. He tramples a number of crea
tures including a man, and possesses thirty-two
 arms and sixteen legs. Color: red, blue, black or
 white. Attributes: many.
 Yamari (enemy of Yama)
 God. Buddhist (Vajrayana). Probably influenced
 by the Hindu deities S ˇIVA and YAMA. His vehicle
 is a buffalo, his color red and his attributes a club,
 a cup, a noose and a staff.
 Yami
 Mother goddess. Hindu (Epic and Puranic). One
 of seven SAKTIS who in later Hinduism became
 regarded as of evil intent. Also CAMUNDA.
 Yamm
 God of the ocean. Semitic. A Syrian deity who is
 mentioned briefly in an Egyptian papyrus as an
 extortioner of tribute from other deities.
354 Yamuna
 Yayu
 Yamuna
 Minor river goddess. Hindu. A daughter of SURYA
 and SANJNA and the sister of YAMA. She is
 described in Puranic texts and associated with the
 river Yamuna on which lies the city of Mathura.
 Color: blue.
 YAW (enemy)
 Omnipotent god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. A universal and generally malevolent
 deity. One of the group classed as the TEZ
CATLIPOCA complex.
 Ya’qhicnin
 Creator god. Koryak [southeastern Siberia]. The
 name given to the Christian god by the Koryaks
 to distinguish him from their own supreme being,
 TENANTO’MWAN.
 Yaro
 Creator god. Kafa [Ethiopia]. A sky god to
 whom sacrifice is still possibly enacted on hill
 tops and river banks in rural areas. Became
 largely syncretized with the Christian god. Also
 Yero.
 Yasodhara (preserving glory)
 Goddess. Buddhist. The daughter of Dandapani
 and the consort of the BUDDHA before he attained
 his full status.
 Yauhqueme
 Fertility and rain god. Aztec (classical Mesoamer
ican) [Mexico]. One of the group of deities classed
 as the TLALOC complex.
 Sky god. Ngbandi [Democratic Republic of
 Congo, central Africa]. One of seven gods
 invoked at daybreak.
 Yeloje
 Sun god. Yukaghir [Siberia]. A benevolent deity
 who personifies justice and morality. The rainbow
 is said to be his tongue. Also PU’GU; Ye’rpeyen.
 Yemekonji
 Creator god. Mongo and Nkundo [Democratic
 Republic of Congo, central Africa]. According to
 tradition, he gave the sun god Nkombe three
 parcels when the people complained the world
 was too dark; two were brightly colored and one
 was a dull gray. Realizing that he was about to be
 tricked, Nkombe opened the gray parcel and the
 world was flooded with light.
 Yemoja
 Goddess of water. Yoruba [Nigeria, West Africa].
 The creatrix of all the rivers in the area, particularly
 the river Ogun. She is chiefly worshiped by women
 and the sacred river water is considered a remedy
 for infertility. She is propitiated with animal and
 vegetable sacrifices. Attributes: cowrie shells.
 Yen Kuang Niang Niang
 Mother goddess. Chinese. One of a group of
 “nine dark ladies” who have a protective function.
 She cures the eye disease ophthalmia.
 Yhi
 Sun goddess and bringer of light. Australian abo
riginal. She is said to have been jointly responsi
Yine’ane’ut 355
 ble, with BAIAME, for the creation of humankind
 and in particular for the Karraur group of abo
rigines. Mythology records that she was asleep in
 the darkness of the primordial Dreamtime until
 she was awakened by a loud roaring or whistling
 noise from Baiame. As she opened her eyes the
 world became light and as she walked the earth
 plants grew in her footprints, to be followed by
 animals and, finally, humankind.
 YHWH (I am what I am)
 ORIGIN Judaic [Israel]. Creator god.
 KNOWNPERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 1200 BC until
 present day.
 SYNONYMS Yahweh; JEHOVAH.
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Hebron, Jerusalem until 587
 BC but subsequently throughout the Christian
 world.
 ART REFERENCES none extant.
 LITERARY SOURCES Vetus Testamentum; Qum’
 Ran manuscripts.
 The creator god of the southern tribes of Israel
 headed by Levi and Benjamin. Possibly a copy of
 the Egyptian deity ATUM (ATEN), introduced by
 the pharaoh Amenhotep IV in the fifteenth cen
tury BC. The object of monolatrous but not nec
essarily monotheistic worship by the Hebrew
 settlers in Palestine. Arguably the first surviving
 concept of a truly universal deity. 
Yhwh is the god who, according to tradition,
 was revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai (Mount
 Horeb) and who provided the Covenant, the 
ten tablets of law. He is said to sit in judgment
 between two facing cherubim on the Mercy 
Seat which rested above the focal point of
 Israelite worship, the Ark of the Covenant (VT
 Exodus 25). Yhwh eventually superseded the
 northern god, EL, to become supreme deity of
 Israel. During the period of Hellenic occupa
tion, the sanctuary of Yhwh on Mount Gerizim
 in Samaria (northern kingdom) was re-dedicated
 to ZEUS. 
The name Yhwh is an enigmatic “no name.” It
 survived into Christian religion, though it appears
 regularly only in the Jerusalem Bible. Elsewhere,
 in English translation, it is now generally replaced
 by the term “Lord.” “Jehovah” is a corruption
 introduced circa AD 1200-1300.
 The Old Testament writings, particularly the
 Psalms, are littered with references indicating
 acceptance of many gods in the pantheon. Trans
lators have substituted euphemisms such as
 “saints” and “holy men.”
 Although Yhwh is perceived in human form, he
 was not represented other than in romanticized
 Christian art. His presence is identified in Jewish
 tradition only by the empty space of the Mercy
 Seat. He is wholly transcendent, without physical
 needs, and, according to Judao-Christian tradi
tion, has no consort. This universal deity became
 known as ALLAH in Islamic tradition.  
Yina’mna’ut (fog woman)
 Spirit of mists and fogs. Yakut [southeastern
 Siberia]. Her consort is fog man YINA’MTIAN and
 she is believed to live in a mythical settlement
 with other spirits.
 Yina’mtian (fog man)
 Spirit of mists and fogs. Yakut [southeastern
 Siberia]. His consort is fog woman YINA’MNA’UT
 and he is believed to live in a mythical settlement
 with other spirits.
 Yine’ane’ut
 Guardian spirit. Koryak [southeastern Siberia].
 One of the daughters of Big Raven, QUIKINN.A’QU,
356 Yng
 Yogesvari
 regarded as a shamanka engaged in a constant
 struggle with the underworld demons, the kalau.
 Her sister is Cana’ina’ut and she is the consort of
 the earth spirit TANUTA.
 Yng
 Creator god. Nordic (Icelandic). Progenitor of
 the earliest Swedish kings. Also, in Germanic tra
dition, ING, the father of the Baltic coastal tribe,
 the Ingwaeones.
 Yoalli Ehecatli (night wind)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. One of the group classed as the Omeotl
 complex.
 Yoaltecuhtf (lord of night)
 Creator god. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. With his consort YACAHUIZTLI he
 engendered the night in Aztec cosmogony. 
The ruler of the sixth of the thirteen heavens
 known at the time of the Spanish conquest,
 Teotlcozauhcan (the place of the yellow god).
 One of the group classed as the MICTLANTE
CUHTLI complex.
 Yobin-Pogil
 Forest spirit. Yukaghir [southeastern Siberia].
 The apotheosis of the woodlands and their
 guardian deity.
 Yocahu
 Tutelary god. Puerto Rico and Haiti. A benev
olent deity, the son of the universal mother, 
and known as the “great spirit.” Believed to 
live in the sun. Also Marcoti; Jocakuvague
Maorocon.
 Mother goddess. Buddhist (Epic and Puranic).
 Personifying desire and listed among both the
 SAPTAMATARAS and the ASTAMATARAS. Attributes:
 bell, club, drum, shield, sword and trident.
 Yolkai Estan
 Fertility goddess. Navaho [USA]. The sister of
 the principal fertility goddess, ESTSANATLEHI, she
 was engendered by the gods, who gave life to an
 image made from white shells.
 Yspaddaden Pencawr
 God. Celtic (Welsh). Possibly the counterpart of
 the Irish deity Balor and the Icelandic BALDER. In
 the legend of Culhwch and Olwen, Olwen is iden
tified as his daughter. He sets Culhwch several
 difficult tasks before he can obtain Olwen’s hand.
 Culhwch retaliates by wounding him severely, but
 he cannot be killed until Olwen marries. This is
 presumably a distorted fertility legend, the orig
inal meaning of which is lost.
 Yu Huang Shang Ti
 Supreme god. Taoist (Chinese). He achieved
 paramount prominence during the Sung Dynasty
 and the Jade Emperor is his earthly, mortal incar
nation. As a deity he is remote and out of touch
 with ordinary people. No iconography is applied
 to him and he has no physical description. He
 engendered the universe from chaos and is the
 unifying principle of the cosmos which is per
ceived to be divided into thirty-six heavens above
 the earth. Also SHANG TI; Shang Di.
 Yu Shih
 Rain god. Taoist (Chinese). The so-called “master
 of the rain,” he provides rain to ripen the harvest.
He is often accompanied by the god of thunder,
 Yu-ti 357
 Yum Kaax
 LEI KUNG.
 Yu-Chiang
 God of ocean winds. Chinese. He is depicted with
 the body of a bird and a human face.
 Yum Cimil
 God of death. Mayan (Yucatec, classical
 Mesoamerican) [Mexico]. Depicted with a skull
 head, bare ribs and spiny projections from the
 vertebrae, or with bloated flesh marked by dark
 rings of decomposition. He wears bell-like orna
ments fastened in the hair. Sacrificial victims were
 offered to the god by drowning in the sacred pool
 or cenote. Also God A.
 Vegetation god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. The deity concerned with the growing
 and harvesting of maize, but also of husbandry in
 general. Depicted as a youthful figure with an ear
 of corn in his headdress. Also God E.
 Yu-ti
 Sky god. Taoist (Chinese). The title by which the
 “Jade Emperor,” the most senior deity in the
 Taoist pantheon, is commonly known. He
 emerges as a deity circa AD 1000-1100 during the
 Sung Dynasty. The Chinese emperor is his
 earthly and more accessible incarnation. 
See also Yu HUANG SHANG TI.
6
 Z
 Zababa
 God of war. Mesopotamian (Babylonian
Akkadian). The tutelary god of the city of Kisˇ,
 whose sanctuary is the E-meteursag. Also
 Zamama.
 Zalmoxis
 Sky god. Thracian. Known from the writings of
 Herodotus. According to tradition he lived for
 some time on earth and then became ruler of the
 underworld. His makeup may have been influ
enced by the Osirian cult in Egypt.
 Zapotlantenan
 Healing goddess. Aztec (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Deity of medicinal turpentine and oint
ment-dealers. One of the group classed as the
 TLALOC complex.
 Zara-Mama
 Maize goddess. South American Indian [Peru]. A
 minor deity, models of whom were made from
 the leaves of the plant and kept for a year before
 being burned in a ritual to ensure a good maize
 harvest.
 Zarpanitu(m)
 Birth goddess. Mesopotamian (Babylonian-Akka
dian). The consort of MARDUK whose marriage
 was celebrated annually at New Year in Babylon.
 Also Erua; SARPANITUM.
 Zemepatis
 Chthonic god. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. A tute
lary deity of farmers and guardian of cattle.
 Zemi
 One of a pair of primordial beings. Puerto Rico
 and Haiti. Known as Morobo and Binatel, they
 are the parents of all other deities, though they
 did not create the cosmos which, according to
 belief, has always been in existence. They are
 depicted in stone, wood or clay figures and are
 invoked in prayers. Two wooden ZEMIS used to be
 kept in a sacred cave at Toaboyna in Haiti and
 were the subject of several annual pilgrimages.
 The sun and the moon were believed to have
 emerged from the cave.
 Zemyna
 Chthonic goddess. Pre-Christian Lithuanian. A
 deity with responsibility for vegetation and
 358
ZEUS 359
 crops. She was invoked at sowing and harvesting
 times.
 Zephyrus
 God of the south winds. Roman. Announces the
 arrival of spring.
 Zethos
 God. Greek. Theban twin god who had mortal
 weaknesses. Comparable to Kastor.
 ZEUS (sky father)
 ORIGIN Greek. Head of the Greek pantheon.
 KNOWN PERIOD OF WORSHIP circa 800 BC but
 undoubtedly earlier until Christianization circa
 AD 400. 
SYNONYMS Dyaus (Indo-European); Diu-pater,
 JUPITER (Roman).
 CENTER(S) OF CULT Athens (sanctuary begun by
 Pisastratus and completed by Hadrian) and
 throughout Greek sphere of influence where, in
 every city, the major temple is that of Zeus.
 ART REFERENCES abundant sculpture and carving;
 votive inscriptions, etc.
 LITERARY SOURCES Iliad (Homer); Theogony
 (Hesiod).
 Zeus leads the pantheon of twelve great Greek
 gods illustrated on the Parthenon frieze and is
 probably modeled on a western Asiatic precedent.
 His father is KRONOS, his mother RHEA, or in
 alternative tradition METIS (wisdom). His official
 consort, though barely more so than in name, is
 HERA. He is a universal deity and through him
 comes all mortal sovereignty. He earned the finest
 and most opulent sanctuaries throughout the
 Greek world. According to tradition, he lives on
 the mountain in Thessaly which came to be known
 as Olympus and where the storm clouds are said to
 gather. Tradition also has it that his grave is on
 Mount Yuktas, near Knossos on the sand of Crete,
 where he was “buried” by the KOURETES.
 Symbolized by the eagle and earning the sacri
fice of bulls, Zeus is the strongest among the
 deities, but in origin he is a weather god paral
lelling ISˇKUR (Sumerian), TESˇUB (Hittite) and
 HADAD (Semitic). He rules the clouds and rain,
 delivers lightning and hurls thunderbolts forged
 by the one-eyed Cyclopes, the thunderbolt being
 his invincible weapon. In the same vein he is said
 to determine the outcome of battle; victors once
 draped his statues and other monuments with
 spoils of war. The great and enduring festival of
 Zeus is that of Olympia, which became the mod
ern Olympic Games.
 The father of gods and men alike, according to
 tradition, Zeus won his position of authority in a
 primeval battle against the TITANS who had held
 sway in the time of his father Kronos; Kronos
 swallowed all his other children, but Zeus’s mother
 Rhea saved him by turning him into a stone and
 Zeus overthrew his father. He swallowed Metis,
 thus combining strength and wisdom in a single
 godly entity. His noos, his ability for pragmatism,
 became renowned and infallible and his judgment
 was beyond criticism. Homer pictures him carry
ing the golden scales of justice. Zeus is surrounded
 from birth by attendant youthful warriors known
 as Kouretes or Korybantes.
 He is possessed of enormous sexual vigor and
 sired a vast number of offspring through an inces
sant parade of goddesses and mortal partners. In
 this respect his philandering became an embar
rassment in the late Hellenic philosophical age.
 His fathering of other deities included APOLLO
 and ARTEMIS through LETO, HERMES whose
 mother is MAIA, PERSEPHONE and DIONYSOS by
 DEMETER, and ATHENA whose mother was said to
 be Metis, but who emerged in full armor from her
 father’s forehead. Among the more notable of his
 mortal children are HERAKLES, Perseus, ZETHOS
360 Zhang Guo-lao
 Zibelthiurdos
 and AMPHION, HELEN and MINOS. He was also
 suspected of homosexuality with the young Tro
jan Ganymede.
 Zhang Guo-lao
 God. Taoist (Chinese). One of the “eight immor
tals” of Taoist mythology. Once mortal beings,
 they achieved immortality through their lifestyle.
 According to tradition, Zhang Guo-lao was a bat
 before he took human form. Attributes include a
 bamboo drum and sticks and his attendant animal
 is an ass. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Zhiwud
 Messenger goddess. Kafir [Afghanistan]. A deity
 connected and possibly syncretizing with the god
dess DISANI but who, according to legend, carried
 vital messages to the heroic god MON during a
 primordial battle between gods and giants. Mon
 lives by a lake surrounded by fire, and the god
dess’s wings (a solitary inference that she can
 appear in the form of a bird) are scorched in the
 process until Mon heals them. In some variations
 Mon lives in the form of a bull which breathes
 fire. Also Zhuwut.
 Zhong-li Quan
 God. Taoist (Chinese). One of the “eight immor
tals” of Taoist mythology. Once mortal beings,
 they achieved immortality through their lifestyle.
 Attributes include a fan. 
See also BA XIAN.
 Storm god. Thracian. Believed to send thunder
 and lightning.
 Zipakna
 Earthquake god. Mayan (classical Mesoamerican)
 [Mexico]. Usually coupled with the god
 KABRAKAN and identified as a creator of moun
tains which Kabrakan subsequently destroys.
 Zoe (life)
 Goddess of life. Greek and Gnostic Christian.
 The daughter of PISTIS SOPHIA who, according to
 Gnostic mythology, became the consort of
 SABAOTH to create the angels, Israel and Jesus
 Christ.
 Zotz
 Tutelary god. Mayan (Zotzil Indian, Mesoamer
ican) [Guatemala]. Manifest in the form of a bat.
 Zurvan
 God of temporal time and fate. Persian [Iran].
 Once the focus of a cult of Zervanism in which
 he appeared as the father of AHURA MAZDA, the
 god of light, and AHRIMAN, god of darkness, in
 Zoroastrianism. He is perceived as a god of des
tiny and the controller of all roads which
 mankind may take, leading ultimately to the 
otherworld. He was adopted into Manichaean
 religion. Also Zervan.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
 6
 Africa
 Chidester, D. African Traditional Religion in South
 Africa. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood, 1997.
 Courlander, H. A Treasury of African Folklore. New
 York: Marlowe, 1996.
 Karade, Baba Ifa. Handbook of Yoruba Religious Concepts.
 Boston: Red Wheel, 1994.
 Knappert, J. African Mythology. Portsmouth, N.H.:
 Heinemann, 1988.
 Lugira, A. M. African Religions. New York: Facts On
 File, 1999.
 Mbiti, John S. An Introduction to African Religions. Lon
don: Heinemann, 1975.
 ———. African Religions and Philosophy. London:
 Heinemann, 1992.
 Mudimbe, V., ed. Glazier, S. D. Encyclopedia of African
 Religion. London & New York: Taylor & Francis,
 2001.
 Parrinder, E. G. West African Religion. New York:
 Barnes & Noble, 1961.
 Raboteau, A. J. African-American Religion. Oxford,
 U.K.: Oxford University Press, 1999.
 Ray, Benjamin C. African Religions (2nd edition).
 Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1999.
 Vecsey, C. Traditional Ojibwa Religion. Philadelphia:
 American Philosophical Society, 1983.
 Ancient Near East
 Albright, W. F. Yahweh and the Gods of Canaan. New
 York: Doubleday, 1968.
 British Museum. Cuneiform Texts from Babylonian
 Tablets. London: British Museum, 1914.
 Budge, Wallis, E. A. Babylonian Life and History (2nd
 edition). New York: Barnes & Noble, 1993.
 Cook, S. A. The Religion of Ancient Palestine in the Light
 of Archaeology. London: Oxford University Press,
 1930.
 Dahood, M., ed. Moscati, S. Ancient Semitic Divinities
 in Syria and Palestine. Rome: Institute of Oriental
 Studies, 1958.
 Dalley, S. (transl.) Myths from Mesopotamia. Oxford &
 New York: Oxford World Classics, 1991.
 Furlani, G. La Religione degli Hittiti. Bologna: 1936.
 Garstang, J. The Hittite Empire. London: 1929.
 ———. “The Sun Goddess of Arenna.” Journal of
 American Archaeology and Anthropology Vol V1, No. 3.
 Gray, J. The Canaanites. London: 1964.
 Gurney, O. R. The Hittites. London: 1975.
 Jacobsen, Thorkild. The Treasures of Darkness. New
 Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1976.
 Jamme, A. Le panthéon sud-Arabe préislamique d’apres
 les sources épigraphiques. Louvain, France: 1947.’
 Jean, C. F. La réligion sumérienne. Paris: 1931.
 Kinnier-Wilson, J. V. The Legend of Etana. Warminster,
 U.K.: Aris & Phillips, 1985.
 Kramer, S. N. “The Epic of Gilgamesh and its Sumer
ian Sources.” Journal African and Oriental Studies,
 Vol. 64.
 ———. Sumerian Mythology. Philadelphia: 1944.
 Laroche, E. “Le Panthéon de Yazilikaya.” Journal of
 Cuneiform Studies, Vol. Vl, 1952.
 Montgomery, J. A. & Harris, Z. S. The Ras Shamra
 Mythological Texts. Philadelphia: American Philo
sophical Society, 1935.
 Pfiffig, A. J. Das Pantheon der Etrusker. Vol lll: Religion
 Etrusca. Graz, Switz.: 1975.
 Postgate, J. N. Early Mesopotamia. London: Routledge,
 1992.
 361
362 Bibliography
 Rawlinson, H. Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia (5
 vols.). London: 1861–91.
 Schaffer, A. The Sumerian Sources of Tablet Xll of the Epic
 of Gilgamesh. Ann Arbor, M.I.: University Micro
films, 1963.
 Sjoberg, A. & Bergmann, E. Texts from Cuneiform
 Sources. Locust Valley, N.Y.: Augustin, 1969.
 Sladek, W. R. Inanna’s Descent and the Death of Dumuzi
 (published thesis). Baltimore, Md.: Baltimore Uni
versity Press, 1974.
 Witzel, M. Ninhursag and Enki. Rome: Analecta Ori
entalis, Vol XV, 1946.
 Australian Aboriginal
 Eliade, Mircea. Australian Religions. Cornell: Cornell
 University Press, 1973.
 Levy-Bruel, L. Primitive Mythology, the Mythic World of
 the Australian and Papuan Natives. Brisbane: Queens
land University Press, 1984.
 Mudrooroo. Aboriginal Mythology. London: Thorsons,
 1994.
 Buddhist
 Getty, Alice. The Gods of Northern Buddhism. New York:
 Dover, 1988.
 Jansen, E. J. The Book of Buddhas. Boston: Red Wheel,
 1993.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). Lon
don: Carlton, 2003.
 ———. Buddha. His Life in Images. London: Carlton,
 2003.
 Liebert, Gosta. Iconographic Dictionary of Indian Reli
gions. New Delhi, India: SRI Satguru, 1976.
 Puspa, Niyogi. Buddhist Divinities (2nd edition). New
 Delhi, India: Munshirm Manoharlal, 2001.
 Scott Littleton, C. (ed). Eastern Wisdom. New York:
 Henry Holt, 1996.
 Soothill, W. E. & Hodous, L. A. A Dictionary of Chinese
 Buddhist Terms. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass,
 1987.
 Suzuki, B.L. Mahayana Buddhism. London: Mandala,
 1992.
 Tarthang Tulku (ed). Holy Places of the Buddha. Berkeley,
 Calif.: Dharma, 1994.
 Van Ham, Peter. The Forgotten Gods of Tibet. Paris: Edi
tions Menges, 1997.
 Willson, Martin (transl.). Deities of Tibetan Buddhism.
 Somerville, Mass.: Wisdom, 2000.
 Celtic and Anglo-Saxon
 Ashe, Geoffrey. Mythology of the British Isles. London:
 Methuen, 1990.
 Chadwick, Nora. The Celts. London: Penguin, 1971.
 Squire, Charles et. al. Celtic Myth and Legend. New Jer
sey: New Page, 2001.
 Delaney, Frank. Legends of the Celts. London: Grafton,
 1991.
 Dillon, M. Cycles of the Kings. Oxford: Oxford Univer
sity Press, 1946.
 Ellis, P. B. A Dictionary of Irish Mythology. London: Con
stable, 1987.
 Gantz, J. The Mabinogion. London: Penguin, 1976.
 ———. Early Irish Myths and Sagas. London: Penguin,
 1981.
 Gray, Miranda et. al. Celtic Gods, Celtic Goddesses. Lon
don: Blandford, 1992.
 Green, John. Celtic Gods and Heroes. New York: Dover,
 2003.
 Green, Miranda. The Gods of the Celts. London: Alan
 Sutton, 1986.
 ———. Symbol and Image in Celtic Religious Art. Lon
don: Alan Sutton, 1989.
 Jordan, Michael. Witches. London: Kyle Cathie, 1996.
 MacCulloch, J. A. Celtic and Scandinavian Religions.
 London, Greenwood, 1948.
 Matthews, J. & C. British and Irish Mythology. London:
 Aquarian/Thorsons, 1988.
 Rolleston, T. W. Myths and Legends of the Celtic Race.
 London: Constable, 1985.
 Ross, Anne. The Pagan Celts. London: Batsford, 1967.
 ———. Druids, Gods and Heroes from Celtic Mythology.
 Chicago: Peter Bedrick, 1994.
 Sjoestedt, Marie-Louise. Celtic Gods and Heroes. New
 York: Dover, 2000.
 Zaczec, Iain. Chronicles of the Celts. London: Collins &
 Brown, 1996.
 Christian and Gnostic
 Layton, B. Gnostic Scriptures. New York: Doubleday,
 1995.
 Myers, Allen C. (ed). The Eerdmans Bible Dictionary.
 Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1987.
Bibliography 363
 Pagels, Elaine. The Gnostic Gospels. London: Randon
 House, 1980.
 Robinson, James M. The Nag Hammadi Library (3rd
 edition). Leiden: Brill, 1988.
 Circumpolar tribal
 Bogoras, W. “The Chukchee.” Memoirs of the American
 Museum of Natural History, Vol. Vll, 1902.
 Holmberg, U. “Die Wassergottheiten der Finnisch
Ugrischen Volker.” Helsinki: Mecánica de Sistemas y
 Fenómenos Ondulatorios, Vol. 13, 1913.
 Jochelson, W. “The Koryak” Memoirs of the American
 Museum of Natural History, Vol. X, 1905.
 ———. “The Yakut” Memoirs of the American Museum
 of Natural History Anthropological Papers Vol. XXXlll,
 1933.
 Nansen, F. Eskimo Life. London: Longmans, Green and
 Co., 1893.
 Rink, H. J. Tales and Traditions of the Eskimo. London: C.
 Hurst, 1875.
 Egyptian
 Barker, Henry et. al. Egyptian Gods and Goddesses. New
 York: Grosset & Dunlap, 1999.
 Fisher, L. E. The Gods and Goddesses of Ancient Egypt.
 New York: Holiday House, 1999.
 Hart, George. Dictionary of Egyptian Gods and Goddesses.
 London: Routledge, 1988.
 ———. Egyptian Myths. London: British Museum
 Press, 1991.
 Lichtheim, Miriam. Ancient Egyptian Literature (3 vols.).
 Berkeley: California University Press, 1973–1980.
 Traunecker, C.: transl. Lorton, D. The Gods of Egypt.
 Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2001.
 Wilkinson, Richard H. The Complete Gods and Goddesses
 of Ancient Egypt. London: Thames & Hudson, 2003.
 Greek and Roman Classical
 Aliki. The Gods and Goddesses of Olympus. London:
 Harper Trophy, 1997.
 Barthell, E. E. Gods and Goddesses of Ancient Greece.
 Miami: Miami University Press, 1971.
 Burkert, Walter. Greek Religion. London: Blackwell,
 1985.
 Burr, Elizabeth. The Chiron Dictionary of Greek and
 Roman Mythology. New York: Chiron, 1994. 
Evslin, Bernard. Heroes, God and Monsters of the Greek
 Myths. London: Bantam, 1984.
 Ferguson, J. The Religions of the Roman Empire. London:
 Thames & Hudson, 1982.
 Gilkerson, P.R. et. al. Great Greek Gods and Goddesses.
 New York: Good Apple, 2000.
 Graves, Robert. Greek Gods and Heroes. New York:
 Laure Leaf, 1965.
 Green, J. Greek Gods and Goddesses. New York: Dover,
 2001.
 Hesiod; transl. Evelyn-White, H. G. The Homeric
 Hymns and Homerica. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
 University Press, 1982.
 Herbig, R. Gotter and Damonen der Etrusker. Heidel
berg, Germany: Von Zabern, 1948.
 Homer; transl. Shewring, W. The Odyssey. Oxford,
 U.K.: Oxford University Press, 1980.
 ———. transl. Fitzgerald, R. The Iliad. Oxford, U.K.:
 Oxford University Press, 1984.
 Houle, Michelle M. Gods and Goddesses in Greek Mythol
ogy. New York: Enslow, 2001.
 MacDonald, Fiona. Gods and Goddesses in the Daily Life
 of Ancient Greeks. London: Hodder & Stoughton,
 2002.
 MacMullen, Ramsay. Paganism in the Roman Empire.
 New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1981.
 McCaughrean, G. et. al. Greek Gods and Goddesses. New
 York: Margaret K McElderry Books, 1998.
 Posner, Pat. Gods and Goddesses from Greek Myths.
 Chicago: Peter Bedrick Books, 2002.
 Virgil; transl. Fairclough, H.R. The Aeneid. Cambridge,
 Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1935.
 Woff, Richard. A Pocket Dictionary of Greek and Roman
 Gods and Goddesses. New York: Getty Trust, 2003.
 Hindu and associated beliefs
 Beswick, Ethel. The Hindu Gods. New Delhi, India:
 South Asia, 1993.
 Champakalakshmi, R. Vaisnava Iconography in the Tamil
 Country. New Delhi, India: Orient Longman, 1981.
 Danielou, Alain. The Myths and Gods of India. Rochester,
 Vt.: Inner Traditions, 1991.
 Hemenway, Priya. Hindu Gods: The Spirit of the Divine.
 San Francisco: Chronicle, 2003.
 Jansen, E. J. The Book of Hindu Imagery. Boston: Red
 Wheel. 1993.
364 Bibliography
 Jettmar, Karl, transl. Nayyar, A. Religions of the Hindu
 Kush, Vol. 1. Warminster, U.K.: Aris & Phillips,
 1986.
 Johnson, D & J. Gods and Goddesses in Hinduism. Lon
don: Heinemann, 1972.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). Lon
don: Carlton, 2003.
 Kinsley, David. Hindu Goddesses. Berkeley: California
 University Press, 1989.
 Klostermaier, K. K. A Survey of Hinduism (2nd edition).
 New York: New York University Press, 1994.
 Liebert, Gosta. Iconographic Dictionary of Indian Reli
gions. New Delhi, India: SRI Satguru, 1976.
 Martin, E. O. The Gods of India. New Delhi, India:
 1972.
 Mitchell, A. G. Hindu Gods and Goddesses. London: Her
 Majesty’s Stationery Office, 1982.
 Moor, Edward. Hindu Pantheon. New York: Indigo,
 2002.
 O’Flaherty, Wendy D. Hindu Myths. London: Penguin,
 1975.
 ———.The Rig Veda. London: Penguin, 1981.
 Olivelle, Patrick. Upanisads. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford Uni
versity Press, 1996.
 Rajagopalachari, C. Ramayana. Bombay, India:
 Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 1983.
 ———. Mahabharata. Bombay, India: Bharatiya Vidya
 Bhavan, 1990.
 Rupa (ed.) Hindu Gods and Goddesses. New Delhi, India:
 Rupa, 1998.
 Scott Littleton, C. (ed.) Eastern Wisdom. New York:
 Henry Holt, 1996.
 Smith, H.D. et. al. Handbook of Hindu Gods, Goddesses
 and Saints. New Delhi, India: Sundeep Prakashan,
 1997.
 Suresh Chandra. Encyclopaedia of Hindu Gods and God
desses. New Delhi, India: South Asia, 1998.
 Wilkins, W. J. Hindu Gods and Goddesses. New York:
 Dover, 2003.
 Jain
 Dundas, Paul. The Jains. London: Routledge, 1992.
 Hemacandra. The Lives of the Jain Elders. Oxford:
 Oxford University Press, 1998.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). Lon
don: Carlton, 2003.
 Liebert, Gosta. Iconographic Dictionary of Indian Reli
gions. New Delhi, India: SRI Satguru, 1976.
 Norse and Germanic
 Ellis Davidson, H. R. Gods and Myths of Northern
 Europe. London: Penguin, 1964.
 Hollander, Lee M. The Poetic Edda (2nd edition).
 Austin: Texas University Press, 1988.
 MacCulloch, J. A. Celtic and Scandinavian Religions.
 London: Constable, 1948.
 Schneider, H. Die Gotter der Germanen. Tubingen:
 1938.
 Sturluson, Snorri; transl. Faulkes, A. Edda. London:
 Dent, 1987.
 Tacitus; transl. Hutton, M. Germania (revised 
edition). Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
 Press, 1970.
 Teixidor, J. The Pagan God. Princeton: Princeton Uni
versity Press, 1977.
 Turville-Petre, E. O. G. Myth and Religion of the North.
 London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1964.
 North American Indian
 Bonvillain, M. Native American Religion. Langhorne,
 P.A.: Chelsea House, 1995.
 Clark, E. E. Indian Legends of the Pacific Northwest.
 Berkeley: California University Press, 2003.
 Erdoes, R. American Indian Myths and Legends. New
 York: Pantheon, 1985.
 Fewkes, J. W. The Aborigines of Porto Rico and Neigh
bouring Islands. New York: Johnson Reprint Corpo
ration, 1970.
 Gill, S. D. Dictionary of Native American Mythology.
 Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press, 1994.
 Hultkrantz, A.; transl. Setterwell, M. The Religions of the
 American Indians. Berkeley: University of California
 Press, 1979.
 ———. Study of American Indian Religions. New York:
 Crossroad, 1983.
 Hurdy, J. M. American Indian Religions. New York: AAA
 Books, 2001.
 Judson, K. B. Myths and Legends of the Pacific Northwest.
 Lincoln: Nebraska University Press, 2003.
 Lumholtz, C. “Symbolism of the Huichol Indians.”
 Memoirs of the American Museum of Natural His
tory lll, 1907.
Bibliography 365
 Marriott, A & Rachlin, C. K. American Indian Mythol
ogy. New York: New American Library, 1968.
 Martin, J.W. The Land Looks after Us: A History of Native
 American Religion. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University
 Press, 2001.
 Matthews, W. “The Night Chant: a Navaho Cere
mony.” Memoirs of the American Museum of Natural
 History, Vol Vll., 1902.
 Nicholson, Henry B. “Religion in Pre-Hispanic Central
 Mexico” in Handbook of Middle American Indians, ed.
 Robert Wauchope et al., Vol 10. Austin: University
 of Texas Press, 1971. 
Opler, Morris E. Myths and Tales of the Jicarilla Apache
 Indians. New York: Dover, 1994.
 Page, J. & Leeming, D. A. The Mythology of Native
 North America. Oklahoma: University of Oklahoma
 Press, 2000.
 Spence, Lewis. The Myths of the North American Indians.
 New York: Dover, 1989.
 Swanton, J. R. “Haida Ethnology.” Memoirs of the
 American Museum of Natural History, Vol Vlll, 1909.
 Trigger, B. G. et al. (eds.) The Cambridge History of the
 Native Peoples of the Americas. Cambridge: Cambridge
 University Press, 1996.
 Polynesian
 Andersen, Johannes C. Myths and Legends of the Polyne
sians. New York: Dover, 1995.
 Arrow, T. Maori Art of New Zealand. Paris: Unesco,
 1964.
 Best, Elsdon. Maori Religion and Mythology. Providence:
 AMS Books, 1975.
 Craig, Robert D. Handbook of Polynesian Mythology.
 Santa Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 2004.
 ———. Dictionary of Polynesian Mythology. Westport:
 Greenwood, 1989.
 Firth, R. Rank and Religion in Tikopia. Boston: Beacon
 Press, 1970.
 Flood, Bo et. al. Pacific Island Legends. Honolulu: Bess,
 2001.
 Knappert, J. Pacific Mythology: an Encyclopaedia of Myth
 and Legend. London: HarperCollins, 1992.
 Reed, A. H. Myths and Legends of the Pacific. Auckland:
 Reed, 2000.
 White, John. Ancient History of the Maori. Providence:
 AMS, 1971.
 Williamson, J. Religions and Cosmic Beliefs of Central
 Polynesia. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
 1933.
 Shinto and early Japanese
 Ashkenazi, M. Handbook of Japanese Mythology. Santa
 Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 2003.
 Aston, W. G. Shinto. London & New York: Longmans,
 Green and Co., 1905.
 Herbert, Jean. Shinto. London: Allen & Unwin, 1967.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). Lon
don: Carlton, 2003.
 Ichiro Hori. Folk Religion in Japan. Chicago: Chicago
 University Press, 1968.
 Kingsley, Rebecca. (ed.) Japanese Gods and Myths. l
wbooksales (online), 1999.
 Roberts, Jeremy. Japanese Mythology A-Z. New York:
 Facts On File, 2003.
 Scott Littleton, C. (ed.) Eastern Wisdom. New York:
 Henry Holt, 1996.
 ———. Shinto: Origins, Rituals, Festivals, Spirits, Sacred
 Places. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press,
 2002.
 Shell, Harvey. The Gods of Japan. Tokyo: Ahio, 
1984.
 South and Central America
 Brundage, B. C. The Fifth Sun: Aztec Gods, Aztec World.
 Austin: Texas University Press, 1983.
 Burland, C. A. The Gods of Mexico. London: Eyre &
 Spottiswoode, 1967.
 ———. The Aztecs, Gods and Fate in Ancient Mexico.
 London: Harper Collins, 1985.
 Coe, Michael D. Mexico (3rd edition). London: Thames
 & Hudson, 1988.
 Heyden, Doris. The Great Temple and the Aztec Gods.
 Mexico City: Mexics, 1984.
 Hunt, Norman B. Gods and Myths of the Aztecs. New
 York: Smithmark, 1996.
 Rowe, J. H. Handbook of South American Indians, Vol. lll.
 (ed. Steward, J. H.). New York: Cooper Square,
 1963.
 Taube, Karl. Aztec and Maya Myths. London: British
 Museum Press, 1993.
 Thompson, J. E. S. Maya History and Religion. Okla
homa: University of Oklahoma Press, 1970.
366 Bibliography
 Zen Buddhist
 Taoist and early Chinese
 Chamberlain, J. Chinese Gods. Princeton, N.J.: Prince
ton University Press, 1983.
 ———. Chinese Religions. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton
 University Press, 1986.
 Cheng Manchao. The Origin of Chinese Deities. Solana
 Beach, Australia: Acacia, 1997.
 Day, C. B. Chinese Peasant Cults. Shanghai: Kelly and
 Walsh, 1940.
 Fisher, L. E. The Gods and Goddesses of Ancient China.
 New York: Holiday House, 2003.
 Hanson, Valerie. Changing Gods in Medieval China
 1127–1276. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
 Press, 1990.
 Joachim, C. Chinese Religions. Englewood Cliffs, New
 Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1986.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). London:
 Carlton, 2003.
 Legge, James. The Religions of China. London: R. West,
 1880.
 Legge, James (transl.). I Ching: Book of Changes. Secaucus,
 N.J.: Citadel, 1964.
 O’Brien, Joanne. Chinese Myths and Legends. London:
 Arrow, 1990.
 Schwartz, Benjamin I. The World of Thought in Ancient
 China. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press,
 1985.
 Scott Littleton, C. (ed.) Eastern Wisdom. New York:
 Henry Holt, 1996.
 Stephens, K. G. Chinese Mythological Gods. Oxford,
 U.K.: Oxford University Press, 2001.
 Walters, D. Chinese Mythology. London: Aquarian/
 Thorsons, 1992.
 Wong, Eva. Taoism. Boston: Shambhala, 1997.
 Dumoulin, H. Zen Enlightenment. New York: Weath
erhill, 1979.
 Jordan, Michael. Spirit of the East (new edition). Lon
don: Carlton, 2003.
 ———. Buddha: His Life in Images. London: Carlton,
 2003.
 Watts, Alan W. The Way of Zen. London: Vintage, 1999.
 General reference
 Bickerman, E. J. Chronology of the Ancient World (revised
 edition). London: Thames & Hudson, 1980.
 Brandon, S. G. F. (ed.). Dictionary of Comparative Reli
gion. Princeton, N.J.: Scribner, 1970.
 Frazer, J. G. The Golden Bough: a Study in Magic and
 Religion (abridged edition). London: Papermac,
 1988.
 Grimal, Pierre. Dictionary of Classical Mythology. Lon
don: Blackwell, 1990.
 Hinnells, J. R. Dictionary of Religions. London: Penguin
 1984.
 Jordan, Michael. Myths of the World (paperback edition).
 London: Kyle Cathie, 1995.
 Keenan, Sheila. Gods, Goddesses and Monsters. Danbury,
 Conn.: Scholastic Reference, 2000.
 Lurker, Manfred. Dictionary of Gods and Goddesses, Dev
ils and Demons. London & New York: Routledge,
 1989.
 Maxwell, T. S. The Gods of Asia. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford
 University Press, 1997.
INDEX
 6
 Note: Boldface numbers
 indicate major treatment
 of a topic.
 A
 A-a  1
 A’asˇ 1
 Abandinus  1
 Abasy 29
 Abellio  1
 Abeona  1
 Abgal  1
 Abhijit  1
 Abhijnaraja  1
 Abhimukhi  1
 Abibuddha  251, 263, 335
 Abnoba  2
 Abonsam  2
 Aborigines. See Australian
 aborigines
 Abu  2
 Abundantia  2
 Abzu  2, 26
 Ac Yanto  2
 Acacila  2
 Acala  2, 322
 Acan  2
 Acat  2
 Acca Larentia  2
 Acchupta  3
 Achilles  37, 121, 123
 Acolmiztli  3
 Acolnahuacatl  3
 Adad  3, 89, 111, 136, 271,
 347
 Adamas  3
 Adeona  1, 3
 Adhimukticarya  3
 Adhimuktivasita  3
 Adibuddha  3, 4, 11, 16, 77,
 176, 304, 333, 334
 Adidharma  4
 Adikia  4, 78
 Aesir  6
 Aegir  5
 Bor  53
 Buri  57
 Frigg  98
 Gefjon  103
 Hoder  127
 Hoenir  127
 Ing  139
 Kvasir  169
 Mimir  199
 Njord  225
 Othin  236
 Sigyn  285
 Siofn  286
 Skadi  288
 Vanir  336
 Vidar  340
 Vor  344
 Aether  7, 92, 93, 100
 Afghanistan. See Kafir
 Africa  xi. See also Fon; Ibo;
 Yoruba
 Adimurti  4
 Aditi  4
 Aditya  4
 Agni  7
 Ansa  21
 Aryaman  31
 Bhaga  50
 Daksa  71
 Dhatar  76
 Diti  80
 Iksvaku  135
 Mitra  201
 Pusan  256
 Savitar  278
 Surya (1)  297
 Vivasvan  344
 Aditya  4
 Ansa  21
 Aryaman  31
 Bhaga  50
 Daksa  71
 Dhatar  76
 Parjanya  243
 Pusan  256
 Savitar  279
 Surya (1)  297
 Trayastrinsa  322
 Tvastar  325
 Varuna  337
 Venkata  339
 Vivasvan  344
 Adonis  4, 82, 159, 161
 Adrastea  4–5
 Adro  5
 Aeacos  5, 312
 Aed  5, 175
 Aegir  5, 53, 263
 Aeneas  24
 Aeneid (Virgil)  43
 Aengus  5–6, 71
 Aeolos  6, 6, 91
 Aeolus  6
 Aequitas  6
 Aericura  6
 Aesculapius  6, 194, 280, 294
 Abonsam  2
 Adro  5
 Age  7
 Akonadi  11
 Akongo  11
 Ala  11–12
 Alatangana  12
 Amma (2) (African)  16
 Aondo  23
 Apap  23
 Apedemak  24
 Arawa  26
 Arebati  27
 Asase Yaa  31
 Ashiakle  32
 Asis  32
 Astar  34
 Ataa Naa Nyongmo
 35
 Atete  36
 Bacax  43
 Bagba  44
 Banga  46
 Buadza  55
 Buk  56–57
 Bumba  57
 Cagn  58
 Cghene  62
 Chikara  65
 Col  68
 Dedwen  73
 Deng  74
 Dongo  81
 Emeli Hin  89
 Esu  94
 Faro  95
 Fidi Mukullu  96
 Gibini  104
 Hammon  111
 Hara Ke  112
 Huvi  131
 Ifru  134
 Ilat  135
 Imana  136
 Inkanyamba  139
 Iruva  140
 Isa (2)  140
 Itonde  143
 Jakomba  147
 Jokinam  149
 Ka Tyeleo  151
 Kaikara  152
 Kalunga  154
 Kangalogba  156
 Ketua  159
 Khadir  159
 Kianda  161
 Kibuka  161
 Kwoth  169
 Kyumbe  169
 Lesa  173–174
 Libanza  174–175
 Lisa  175
 Lomo  177
 Lubangala  178
 Mamlambo  187
 Mawu  193
 367
368 Index
 Wu  349
 Mbomba  194
 Mbombe  194
 Mbongo  194
 Mbotumbo  194
 Mlentengamunye  201
 Mugasa  205
 Mugizi  205
 Muhingo  205
 Mujaji  205
 Mukasa  206
 Mulindwa  206
 Mungu  206
 Munume  207
 Musisi  207
 Na Cha  209
 Nai  210
 Ndaula  215
 Ndjambi  215
 Ngai  219
 Niamye  219
 Nommo  225
 Nsongo  226
 Nyakaya  228
 Nyame  228
 Nyavirezi  228
 Nzambi  228
 Nze  229
 Ogiuwu  231
 Ogun  231
 Oi  231
 Opo  234
 Osande  235
 Osanobua  235
 Pemba  245
 Raluvimbha  262
 Rang  263
 Rubanga  267
 Sajara  270
 Sakumo  271
 Seta  281
 So  289
 Sodza  290
 Sogblen  290
 Sogbo  290
 Soko  290
 Sore-Gus  292
 Soului  292
 Suku  295
 Teliko  309
 Toro  321
 Tororut  321
 Tsunigoab  323
 Tule  324
 Umvelinkwangi  328
 Unkulunkulu  328
 Unumbote  329
 Wai  346
 Waka  346
 Wamala  347
 Weri Kumbamba  348
 Wiu  348
 Xewioso  350
 Yayu  354
 Yemekonji  354
 afterlife  66
 Agamemnon  37
 Agathos Daimon  7
 Age  7
 Aglibol  7, 185
 Agni  7, 29, 102, 192, 267,
 282, 289, 298, 338
 Agnibhavanavasi  51
 Agnikumara  7
 Agnostos Theos  7
 agriculture. See also harvests;
 vegetation deities; specific
 gods, e.g.: Obarator
 Amaethon  13
 Aralo  26
 Hastehogan  114
 Kahukura  152
 Lauka Mate  172
 Mi-Toshi-No-Kami
 201
 Occator  230
 Oko  232
 Puta  257
 Rongomatane  267
 Shen Nung  283
 Ta-No-Kami  303
 Waka-Sa-Na-Me-No
Kami  347
 Waka-Toshi-No-Kami
 347
 Agu’gux  7
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab  7–8
 Ah Cancun  8
 Ah Chun Caan  8
 Ah Ciliz  8
 Ah Cuxtal  8
 Ah Hulneb  8
 Ah Kin  8
 Ah Kin Xoc  8
 Ah Kumix Uinicob  8
 Ah Mun  8
 Ah Muzencab  8–9
 Ah Patnar Uinicob  8, 9,
 65
 Ah Peku  9
 Ah Tabai  9
 Ah Uincir Dz’acab  9
 Ah Uuc Ticab  9
 Aha  9
 Ahriman  9, 9, 200, 360
 Ahriman 27
 Ahura Mazda  9, 9–10, 20,
 73, 104, 200, 360
 Ahurani  10
 Ai Apaec  10
 Aides. See Hades
 Aine  10
 air  90, 200, 222–223, 293,
 302
 Ajalamo  10
 Ajaya  10
 Aje  10
 Aji-Shiki-Taka-Hiko-Ne  10
 Ajysyt  10
 Akasagarbha  10
 Akelos  10–11
 Aken  11
 Aker  11
 Akeru  11
 akitu (festival)  21, 22, 48,
 190
 Akkaidia. See Babylon
 Akonadi  11
 Akongo  11
 Aksayajnana-Karmanda  11
 Aksobhya  11
 Buddhakapala  56
 Candarosana  59
 Dhvajagrakeyura  77
 Ekajata  87
 Hayagriva  117
 Heruka  123
 Jambhala  148
 Jnanadakini  149
 Locana  176
 Mahacinatara  181
 Mahamantranusarini
 182
 Mahapratyangira  183
 Mamaki  186
 Manjughosa  188
 Manjusri  188
 Nairamata  211
 Parna-Savari  243
 Prajnaparamita  251
 Rakta-Yamari  262
 Samvara  273
 Ucchusma  327
 Vajracarcika  334
 Vajradaka  334
 Vajrapani  335
 Vasudhara  338
 Vighnantaka  341
 Yamantaka  353
 Ala  11–12
 Alad Udug Lama  12
 Alaisiagae  12
 Alalu  12
 Alatangana  12, 269
 Alaunus  12
 Alcis  12
 ale-brewing  105
 Alemona  12
 Alisanos  12
 Al-Khidir. See Khadir
 Alk’unta’m  12, 289
 Allah  12–13, 13, 187, 355
 Allat  13
 Allatu(m)  13, 29, 92
 Almaqah  13
 Alpanu  13
 Ama-arhus  13
 Amaethon  13
 amaethwr (farmer)  13
 Amasˇagnul  13, 243
 Amaterasu-O-Mi-Kami
 13–14
 Ama-Tsu-Mara  14
 Ame-No-Uzume  15
 Futo-Tama  99
 Hiruko  126
 Ishi-Kori-Dome  141
 Izanagi-No-Kami  146
 Kushi-Dama-Nigi
Haya-Hi  168
 Mika-Hiya-Hi  198
 Susano-Wo  298
 Tama-No-Ya  302
 Taoki-Ho-Oi-No
Kami  303
 Toyo-Uke-Bime  321
 Tsuki-Yomi  323
 Waka-Hiru-Me  346
 Ama-Tsu-Mara  14
 Amaunet  14, 17, 207, 231
 Ame-No-Kagase-Wo  14,
 208, 301
 Ame-No-Mi-Kumari-No
Kami  14
 Ame-No-Minaka-Nushi
No-Kami  14–15
 Ame-No-Tanabata-Hime
No-Mikoto  15, 125
 Ame-No-Toko-Tachi-No
Kami  15
 Ame-No-Uzume  15
 Ame-Waka-Hiko  15, 117
 Am-Heh  15
 Amida  15
 Amimitl  15
 Amitabha  15–16
 Amida  15
 Bhrkuti-Tara  51
 Dharmadhatuvagisvara
 75
 Ekajata  87
 Halahala  111
 Hayagriva  117
 Khasaparna  160
 Kurukulla  168
 Lokesvara  176
 Mahabala  181
 Mahasitavati  183
 Manjusri  188
 Pandara  242
 Sinhanada  286
 Vac  332
 Amm  16, 20, 37
 Amma (1) (Tamil)  16, 225
Index 369
 Amma (2) (African)  16
 Ammavaru  16
 Ammut  16
 Amoghapasa  16
 Amoghasiddhi  16–17
 Arya-Tara  31
 Dhanada  74
 Mahamayuri  182
 Mahasri-Tars  183
 Sadbhuja-Sitatara  270
 Sitatara  287
 Syamatara  299
 Tara  304
 Vajragandhari  334
 Vajramrta  334
 Vajrasrnkhala  335
 Vasya-tara  338
 Amor  17, 93
 Amorite  31–32
 Amphion  17, 360
 Amphitrite  17, 81, 218,
 250, 322
 Amun  17–18, 36, 47, 160,
 207, 231, 270, 349
 amuna  297, 354
 Amurru  18, 347
 An (1) (male principle)  18
 An (2)  18
 Asˇnan  33
 Enki  89
 Enlil  90
 Gatumdug  102
 Gibil  104
 Inana  137
 Isˇkur  142
 Jabru  147
 Kisˇar  161
 Marduk  190
 Nammu  211
 Ningikuga  221
 Nissaba  225
 Urasˇ 329
 An (2) (female principle)  18
 Anaitis  18
 Anala  18
 anandatandava 215
 Ananke  19
 Ananta  19, 333
 Anantamukhi  19
 Anantesa  19
 Anat  19, 42, 205, 281
 Anatolia  117–118
 Anaulikutsai’x  19
 Anbay  20
 Ancamna  20
 Andarta  20
 Andjety  20
 Andrasta  5, 20
 Anextiomarus  20
 Anglo-Saxon  91, 139, 236
 Angru Mainyu  9, 20
 Anhouri  20
 Ani  20
 Anila  20
 animals  7, 30, 244, 274
 animistic spirits  vii
 Acacila  2
 Anjea  20
 Arnakua’gsak  29
 Bagba  44
 Eme’mqut  89
 I’lena  135
 Katajalina  157–158
 Kutji  168
 Lebien-Pogil  173
 Naiades  210–211
 Napaeae  213
 Nereides  218
 Anjea  20
 Ankalamman  21
 ankh symbol  118, 141, 255,
 270, 346
 Anna Kuari  21
 Annamurti  21
 Anna Perenna  21
 Ansa  21
 Ansˇar  18, 21, 152, 161, 170
 Anti  21
 Antu  21
 Antu(m)  18, 21
 An(u)  12
 Anu (1) (Mesopotamian)
 21–22
 Adad  3
 An (1)  18
 Ansˇar  21
 Antu  21
 Dagan (1)  70
 Danu (1)  72
 Gerra  104
 Ilabrat  135
 Isˇtar  143
 Kakka  152
 Lahamu  170
 Lahmu  170
 Sebitti  279
 Anu (2) (Celtic)  22
 Anubis  22, 124, 136, 141,
 159, 218, 235
 Anukis  22, 277
 Anu-Mate  23
 Anunitu  21, 23, 104
 Anunnaki  23, 134, 138
 Anuradha  23
 Aondo  23, 303
 Apa  23
 Apacita  23
 Apam Napat  23
 Apap  23, 86
 Aparajita  23–24, 51, 82, 263
 Apedemak  24
 Aphrodisias  24
 Arachne  26
 Aralo  26
 Aphrodite  xi, 24
 Adonis  4
 Allat  13
 Aphrodisias  24
 Ares  28
 Astarte  34
 Caelestis  58
 Harmonia  113
 Hathor  116
 Hephaistos  121
 Hermaphroditos  122
 Hermes  122
 Himerus  125
 Hymenaios  132
 Peitho  245
 Priapos  252
 Venus  24
 Apis  24–25, 275
 Aplu  25
 Apo  25
 Apollo  25–26
 Amphitrite  17
 Anextiomarus  20
 Asklepios  32
 Belenus  48
 Daphne  72
 Eileithyia  87
 Gaia  100
 Grannus  106
 Hermes  122
 Hyakinthos  132
 Janus  148
 Leto  174
 Mabon  180
 Maponos  189
 Mercurius  196
 Mlk-Amuklos  201
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Sirona  286
 Zeus  359
 Apsaras  26, 154
 Apsu  2, 26, 190, 314
 Aquae Granni  106
 Aquilo  6, 26
 A’ra  26
 Arabia
 Amm  16
 Anbay  20
 Arsu  30
 Asar  31
 Basamum  47
 Datin  72
 Hilal  125
 Malakbel  185
 Nahi  210
 Qaynan  258
 Quzah  260
 S
 ˇams  272
 Ta’lab  301
 Theandros  312
 Wadd  346
 Aranyani  26
 Arapacana  26, 159, 329
 Arawa  26, 281, 321
 Arawn  13, 26, 108, 123, 257
 Aray  26, 27
 Archon(s)  27
 Arcismati  27
 Ardhanari(svara)  27
 Ardra  27
 Arduinna  27
 Arebati  27
 Areimanios  27
 Arensnuphis  28
 Ares  28
 Aphrodite  24
 Aray  27
 Athena  37
 Eileithyia  87
 Eris  93
 Harmonia  113
 Harpina  113
 Hera  121
 Hermes  122–123
 Kemosˇ 159
 Onuris  234
 argatlam (silver hand/arm)
 78, 227
 Ariadne  28
 Arianrhod  28, 176
 Arimanius  28
 Arinna  28–29, 118, 310
 Aristaios  29
 Arjuna  29, 51, 344
 Ark of the Covenant  355
 Arma  29
 Armaz  29
 Arnakua’gsak  29
 Arnemetia  29
 Arom  29
 ar (ploughed land)  20
 Arsan Duolai  29
 Arsay  13, 29
 Arsu  30
 Artemis  30
 Aphrodite  24
 Apollo  25
 Asˇpalis  33
 Baphomet  46
 Bastet  47
 Bendis  49
 Ceres  61
 Diana  77
 Eileithyia  87
 Hekate  119
 Leto  174
 Muso Koroni  207
 Zeus  359
 Arthapratisamvit  30
 Artio of Muri  30–31
370 Index
 artisan deities  151, 177–178
 artos (bear)  20
 Arundhati  31
 Aruru  31, 221
 Arvernus  31
 Aryaman  31
 Arya-Tara  16, 31, 338
 Asˇ 31
 asadha 274
 Asalluha  31, 89
 Asar  31
 Asase Yaa  31
 Asˇerah  31–32, 33, 109, 205
 Asˇertu  32, 88
 Asgard  6, 97, 118
 Ashiakle  32, 210
 Asira  32
 Asis  32, 321
 Asklepios  xi, 6, 25, 32–33,
 94, 132, 275
 Aslesa(s)  33
 Asˇnan  33, 170
 Asokottamasri  33
 Asopos  33, 113
 Asˇpalis  33
 Asˇratum  33
 Assur  33, 90, 190, 206, 208
 Astabi  33
 Astamatara  33
 Brahmani  54
 Camunda  59
 Candika  60
 Dhupa  77
 Dipa  79
 Gita  105
 Indrani  139
 Kaumari  158
 Lasya  172
 Mahesvari  184
 Mala  185
 Matara  192
 Narasinhi  214
 Nrtya  226
 Puspa  256
 Rudracarcika  268
 Santa  274
 Tripura  322
 Vaisnavi  334
 Varahi  336
 Yogesvari  356
 Astaphaios  33–34
 Astar  34
 Asˇtaroth  34, 34
 Astarte  34
 Allat  13
 Aphrodite  24
 Asˇtaroth  34
 Asˇtoreth  34
 Attar  38
 Melqart  195
 Milkastart  198
 Quadesˇ 258
 Seth  281
 Tanit  303
 Astlik  34
 Asˇtoreth  24, 34
 astral deities. See also sky;
 specific gods, e.g. : Mangala
 Akasagarbha  10
 Allat  13
 Ame-No-Kagase-Wo
 14
 Arundhati  31
 Astar  34
 Candamius  59
 Hikoboshi  125
 Hokushin-O-Kami
 127
 Huang Ti  129–130
 Marici  190
 Myoken-Bodhisattva
 208
 Sani  273
 Saturnus  278
 Shani  283
 Sothis  292
 Sukra  295
 S
 ˇul-pa-e  296
 S
 ˇulsaga  296
 Topoh  320
 Usins  330
 Xiuhtecuhtli  350
 Asuha-No-Kami  34
 Asurabhavanavasi  51
 Asurakumara  34–35
 Asuras  35, 337
 Asvayujau  35
 asvina 271
 Asvins  35, 249, 298, 322,
 344
 Ataa Naa Nyongmo  35,
 210
 Ataecina  35
 Atargatis  35, 47, 74, 109
 Atarsˇamain  35
 Ate  35
 Atea  35–36, 156, 242, 302
 atef (crown)  20, 124, 235
 Aten  18, 36, 355
 Atete  36
 Atharva-veda 254
 Athena  13, 28, 36–37, 120,
 197, 200, 220, 359
 Athirat  18, 19, 31, 33, 37,
 205
 Aticandika  37
 Atl  37
 Atlahua  37
 Atlas  133
 Atrahasis 89
 Atropa belladonna (deadly
 nightshade)  37
 Atropos  37, 162, 170, 202
 Attar  38
 Attis  12, 38, 169, 273
 Atua Fafine  38
 Atua I Kafika  38, 95, 315
 Atua I Raropuka  38, 38
 Atum  36, 38–39, 49, 91,
 144, 215, 255, 293, 308,
 355
 Atunis  39
 Aufaniae  39
 Augean stables  122
 Aurora  39, 291
 Aurora australis (Southern
 Lights)  206
 Auseklis  39
 Australian aborigines
 Baiame  44
 Birrahgnooloo  52
 Daramulum  72
 Darawigal  72
 Gunabibi  107
 Katajalina  157–158
 Kutji  168
 Mungan Ngour  206
 Nurelli  227
 Taipan  300–301
 Wuriupranili  349
 Yhi  354–355
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Amoghapasa  16
 Bodhisattva  52
 Halahala  110
 Khasaparna  160
 Kuan Yin  165
 Kwannon  169
 Lokesvara  176
 Namasangiti  211
 Natha  215
 Padmapani  239
 Raktalokesvara  262
 Sadaksari (Lokesvara)
 269
 Sinhanada  286
 Sitatara  287
 Syamatara  299
 Tara  304
 Vidyapati-Lokesvara
 341
 avatara x, xi
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab  7
 Ah Kin Xoc  8
 Arjuna  29
 Balarama  45
 Bali  45
 Bhumidevi  51
 Colop U Uichkin  68
 Coyolxauhqui  69
 Devaki  74
 Dhanvantari  75
 Dharani  75
 Dharma  75
 Dhruva  76
 Goraknath  106
 Hansa  111
 Hayagriva  117
 Mandhata  187
 Matsya  193
 Narasinha  214
 Parasurama  243
 Pradyumna  251
 Prthu  254
 Purusa  256
 Quetzalcoatl  259
 Radha  261
 Rama  262
 Rsabha  267
 Rukmini  268
 Sita  287
 Tezcatlipoca  311
 Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli
 317
 Vamana  336
 Varaha  336
 Visˇnu Trivikrama  343
 Visvarupa  344
 Wong Taisin  349
 Xipe Totec  350
 Yajna  352
 Avatea  36, 39–40, 316
 Aveta  40
 Avrikiti  40
 Awonawilona  40
 Axo-Mama  40
 Aya  40, 280
 Ayaba  40, 177
 Ayi’-Uru’n Toyo’n  40, 317,
 329
 Ayiyanayaka  40
 Ayurvasita  40
 Ayyappan  40
 Azizos  30, 40
 Aztecs  ix. See also specific
 gods, e.g.: Chalmecatl
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab  7–8
 Amimitl  15
 Cailleach Bheur  58
 Chalchiuhtlicue  62–63
 Chalmecacihuilt  63
 Cipactli  66
 Coatlicue  67
 Huehuecoyotl  130
 Huehuecoyotl-Coyotli
nahual  130
 Huehuetotl  130
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Huixtocihuatl  130
 Intal  139
 Ipalnemoani  140
 Itzcuintli  144
 Ixcozauhqui  145
 Ixnextli  145
Barastar  47
 Index 371
 Ixquimilli-Itzlacoli
uhqui  145
 Kukulcan  166
 Mayahuel  193
 Mixcoatl-Camaxtli
 201
 Nahui Ollin  210
 Nanahuatl  212
 Ocelotl  230
 Ome Tochtli  233
 Ometeotl  233
 Pahteeatl  240
 Quetzalcoatl  259
 Quiahuitl  259–260
 Tecciztecatl  307–308
 Teteoinnan  310
 Teteoinnan-Toci  310
 Tezcacoac Ayopechtli
 311
 Tezcatlipoca  311–312
 Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli
 317
 Tlaloc  318
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton
 318
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli  319
 Tonacacihuatl  320
 Tonacatecuhtli  320
 Tonaleque  320
 Tonatiuh  320
 Totoltecatl  321
 Tozi  322
 Xipe Totec  350
 Xiuhtecuhtli  350
 Xochiquetzal  350–351
 Xolotl  351
 Xolotl Nanahuatl  351
 Yacacoliuhqui  352
 Yacahuiztli  352
 Yacapitzahuac  352
 Yacatecuhtli  352
 Yauhqueme  354
 Yoalli Ehecatli  356
 Yoaltecuhtf  356
 Zapotlantenan  358
 Aztlan  130
 B
 ba (soul)  124
 Ba (1) (Chinese)  41
 Ba (2) (Egyptian)  41, 160
 Ba Xian  41
 Baal  41–42
 Anat  19
 Arsay  29
 Asˇerah  32
 Asˇtaroth  34
 Attar  38
 Dagan (2)  70
 Hadad  109
 Il  135
 Kotar  162
 Mot  204
 Pidray  247
 Sasuratum  277
 Tanit  303
 Baal Malage  42
 Baal S ˇamin  34, 42, 47, 83,
 195, 284
 Baal Sapon  42, 198, 247
 Baba  42
 Babi  43
 baboon god  117
 Babylon (Babylon-Akkaidia)
 viii
 A-a  1
 Adad  3
 Antu  21
 Dumuzi  82
 Ea  85
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Ilabrat  135
 Isˇara  141
 Isˇtar  142–143
 Marduk  189–190
 Nammu  211
 Nergal  218
 Ninhursaga  221–222
 Ninurta  224
 Tiamat  314
 Bacabs  43, 64
 Bacax  43
 Bacchus  43, 78, 174, 278,
 280
 Badb  43, 204
 Badi Mata  43
 baetyls (stone stelae)  34
 Bagala  43
 Bagba  44
 Bagisht  44, 80, 83
 Bagvarti  44
 Baiame  44, 52, 72, 355
 Bala  44
 Balakrsna  44, 163
 Balam  44
 Balaparamita  44
 Balarama  45, 74, 272, 337,
 342
 Bala-Sakti  45
 balche 2
 Balder  viii, 45, 97, 98, 123,
 127, 177, 213, 336, 356
 Bali  45, 336
 Baltis  45
 Banba  46
 Banebdjedet  46, 116
 Banga  46
 Bangputys  46
 Ba-Pef  46
 Baphomet  46
 Bhumiya  51
 barbers, god of  222
 Barsˇamin  47
 Basamum  47
 Basque  185, 190
 Bastet  47, 198, 216
 Bat  47
 Baubo  47
 bears  30–31
 beauty  339
 bees  8–9, 111
 Beg-Tse  47
 Behanzin  48
 Bel  48
 Belatucadros  48
 Belenus  48
 Belet-Ili  48, 221
 Belet-Seri  48
 Belili  48
 Bella Coola Indians  12, 171,
 258, 280, 289, 319
 Bella Pennu  48, 304
 Bellona  49, 180, 191
 Beltine 58
 Beltiya  49
 Bendis  49
 Benten-San  49, 283
 Benu  49
 Beowulf Saga 123
 Bera Pennu  49
 Bes  49–50
 Bethel  50
 Bhadra  50
 Bhaga  4, 50, 284
 Bhagavan  50
 Bhagavata-Purana 163
 Bhairava  50, 50
 Bhaisajyaguru  50
 bhakti 261
 Bharani  50
 Bharat Mata  51
 Bharati  51, 275, 276
 Bhavanavasi  7, 51, 78, 83,
 210
 Bhima  29, 51, 79
 Bhrkuti-Tara  51
 Bhumi  51
 Abhimukhi  1
 Acala  2
 Adhimukticarya  3
 Arcismati  27
 Dharmamegha  76
 Durangama  82
 Prabhakari  251
 Pramudita  252
 Sadhumati  270
 Samantaprabha  272
 Sudurjaya  294
 Vimala  341
 Bhumi Devata  51
 Bhumidevi  51, 76, 261
 Bhutadamara  51
 Bhutamata  52
 Bhuvanesvari  52
 Bhvanavasi 34, 293, 297,
 327, 338, 341
 Bia  52, 163
 Bible  32
 Bi-har  52
 bija mantra 332
 Birdu  52, 189
 Birrahgnooloo  44, 52, 72
 birth. See also specific gods,
 e.g.: Nirmali
 Adeona  3
 Ah Cuxtal  8
 Ajysyt  10
 Alemona  12
 Anukis  22
 Bes  49–50
 Eileithyia  86–87
 Hesat  124
 Isˇara  141
 Nammu  211
 Tawhaki  306
 Tezcacoac Ayopechtli
 311
 Thalna  312
 Xochiquetzal  350–351
 Zarpanitu(m)  358
 Bishamon  52, 283
 biwa instrument  49
 blacksmithing
 Amaterasu-O-Mi-Kami
 13–14
 Ama-Tsu-Mara  14
 Hasameli  114
 Hephaistos  120–121
 Kabeiroi  151
 Kabeiroi (blacksmith
 gods)  120
 Kinyras  161
 Kotar  162
 Kurdaligon  168
 Ninegal  220
 Qaynan  258
 Vulcanus  345
 blind god  127
 blood sacrifice. See
 human/blood sacrifice
 Bo Hsian  52
 Boann  5, 52, 71
 boars  62, 98, 168
 boats. See ships
 Bodhisattva  52
 Akasagarbha  10
 Arapacana  26
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Bhrkuti-Tara  51
 Bhumi  51
 Cunda  69
372 Index
 Sikhin  285
 Gaganaganja  100
 Hevajira  124
 Jalinprabha  147
 Ksitigarbha  164
 Mahamayuri  182
 Maitreya  185
 Mamaki  186
 Manjusri  188–189
 Marici  190
 Mi-Lo Fo  198
 Natha  215
 Padmapani  239
 Pandara  242
 Parna-Savari  243
 Pratibhanakuta  252
 Raktalokesvara  262
 Sagaramati  270
 Sitapatra  287
 Surangama  297
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Vajragarbha  334
 Vasudhara  338
 Vidyapati-Lokesvara
 341
 Boldogasszony  53
 Bolon Ti Ku  53
 Bombay Kamayan  53
 Bonchor  53
 Book of Maccabees 70
 Book of the Dead 16, 17, 22,
 39, 115, 281, 282
 Books of Invasions 55, 71, 72,
 78
 Boora Pennu  48, 53, 304
 Bor  53
 Boreas  6, 53
 Borgia codice  61, 86, 312,
 317, 320
 Borvo  53
 Bragi  53, 133
 Brahma  54
 Ammavaru  16
 Arundhati  31
 Cathubodua  60
 Daksa  71
 Deva  74
 Gayatri  103
 Hari  113
 Hayagriva  117
 Hevajira  124
 Kama(deva)  154
 Kamalasana  155
 Mara  189
 Marici  190
 Matsya  193
 Nara  214
 Narada  214
 Prajapati  251
 Prasannatara  252
 Samvara  273
 Sandhya  273
 Sarasvati  276
 Satarupa  277
 Skanda  289
 Trimurti  322
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Brahmani  54–55
 Bres Macelatha  55
 Brhaspati  55
 Brhati 55
 Brigantia  55
 Brigit  55, 55, 71
 Brihaddharma-Purana 101
 Brisingamen (necklace)  97
 Britannia  55
 Britian and British  1, 68–69,
 133
 Buadza  55
 Buddha  viii, ix, 56
 Abhijnaraja  1
 Adibuddha  3
 Akasagarbha  10
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15
 Amoghasiddhi  16
 Asokottamasri  33
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Bhaisajyaguru  50
 Bhrkuti-Tara  51
 Bhumi  51
 Bodhisattva  52
 Buddhalocana  56
 Cunda  69
 Dharmakirtis
agaraghosa  76
 Dhyanibuddha  77
 Dipankara  79
 Gaganaganja  100
 Ghantapani  104
 Hevajira  124
 Kotisri  162
 Kuan Yin  165
 Locana  176
 Lokesvara  176
 Mahakapi  182
 Mahapadma  182
 Maitreya  185
 Mamaki  186
 Mandah  187
 Mara  189
 Marici  190
 Maya(devi)  193
 Mucalinda  205
 Ratnapani  263
 Ratnasambhava
 263–264
 Sakyamuni  271
 Sarvanivaranaviskamb
hin  276
 Sarvapayanjaha  277
 Sarvasokata
monirghatamati  277
 Sinhanada  286
 Suddhodana  294
 Sukla-Tara  295
 Suparikirtitanamasri
 297
 Survarnabhadravi
malaratnaprabhasa
 297
 Svaraghosaraja  299
 Tara  304
 Upulvan  329
 Usnisa  330
 Vagisvara  332
 Vairocana  333–334
 Vajradhara  334
 Vajrapani  335
 Vajratara  335
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Visˇnu  342
 Yasodhara  354
 Buddhabodhiprabhavasita  56
 buddha-designate. See
 Bodhisattva
 Buddhakapala  56
 Ajaya  10
 Bhima  51
 Citrasena  67
 Kamini  155
 Kapalini  157
 Karini  157
 Mahayasa  184
 Mahodadhi  184
 Ostaraki  236
 Priyadarsana  253
 Rupini  268
 Subhaga  294
 Subhamekhala  294
 Sumalini  296
 Sundara  297
 Suraksini  297
 Vikalaratri  341
 Buddhalocana  56
 Buddhi  56, 181
 Buddhism  viii, ix, x. See also
 Buddha; specific gods, e.g.:
 Acala
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15–16
 Amoghasiddhi  16–17
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Buddha  56
 Dhanada  74–75
 Dharmadhatuvagisvara
 75
 Dombi  81
 Ekajata  87
 Ghasmari  104
 Halahala  110–111
 Isa (1)  140
 Janguli  148
 Karai-Shin  157
 Kulisankusa  167
 Lokapala  176
 Mahapratisara  183
 Maharaksa  183
 Mahasitavati  183
 Maitreya  185
 sMan-Bla  187
 Manjusri  188–189
 Mara  189
 Mari (1)  190
 Marici  190
 Maya(devi)  193
 Muraja  207
 Myoken-Bodhisattva
 208
 O-lwa-Dai-Myojin
 231
 Patadharini  244
 Prajnavardhani  251
 Pukkasi  256
 Ratnasambhava
 263–264
 Ratnolka  264
 Saraddevi  275
 Sarvabuddhadharma
Kosavati  276
 Sarvakarmavaranavi
sodhani  276
 Saubhagya-Bhuvanes
vari  278
 Savari  278
 Sikhin  285
 Sinhanada  286
 Suddhodana  294
 Sumati  296
 Suparikirtitanamasri
 297
 Survarnabhadravi
malaratnaprabhasa
 297
 Svaraghosaraja  299
 Taditkara  300
 Tara  303–304
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Vagisvara  332
 Vairocana  333–334
 Vasantadevi  337
 Vayu (2)  338
 Vetali  340
 Vina  342
 Yama  353
 Yamaduti  353
 Yamantaka  353
 Yogesvari  356
 Budha  56, 60, 266
 Bugid Y Aiba  56
 buildings/builders  167, 207
 Buk  56–57
 bull gods  24–25, 212, 275,
 304, 315
Rhiannon  266
 Index 373
 ‘bull roarer’ instrument  44
 Buluc Chabtan  57
 Bumba  57
 Buri  53, 57
 Buriyas  57
 C
 Cacoch  58, 152
 caduceus (winged baton)  6,
 196, 267, 325
 Caelestis  55, 58, 94, 303
 Cagn  58
 Cailleach Bheur  55, 58
 Cakra  45, 58, 152–153, 185
 Cakresvari  58
 ‘caldron of abundance’  71
 Camaxtli  58
 Camulos  59
 Camunda  33, 59, 59, 106,
 164
 Canaanite  19, 31–32, 41–42,
 135, 204–205
 canals and ditches  90
 Canda  59
 Candali  59
 Candamius  59
 Candanayika  59
 Candarosana  59
 Candarupa  59
 Candavati  59
 Candelifera  59, 60, 178
 Candesvara  59
 Candesvari  59
 Candika  60
 Candogra  60
 Candra  60
 Abhijit  1
 Anuradha  23
 Ardra  27
 Aslesa(s)  33
 Asvayujau  35
 Bharani  50
 Budha  56
 Citra  67
 Dhanistha  75
 Hasta  114
 Jyestha  150
 Kaumudi  158
 Magha  181
 Mrgasiras  205
 Mula  206
 Naksatra(s)  211
 Punarvasu  256
 Purvabhadrapada  256
 Purvaphalguni  256
 Purvasadha  256
 Pusya  257
 Revati  266
 Rohini  266
 Satabhisa  277
 Sravana  292
 Sravistha  292
 Svati  299
 Tara  304
 Uttarabhadrapada  330
 Uttarasadha  330
 Candrasekhara  60
 Cankilikkaruppan  60
 Cao Guo-jiu  60
 Carcika  60
 Cariociecus  60
 Carmentes  59, 60, 178
 carnal love. See love
 carpenter  125, 222, 303
 cat  47
 Catalogues (Hesiod)  119
 Catalogues (Hesoid)  32, 78
 Cathubodua  60
 Caturmurti  60
 Cauri  60
 Cautha  61
 Ce Acatl  61
 Celts  xi. See also Gallic gods;
 Ireland; Romano-Celtic
 gods; specific gods, e.g.:
 Mabon
 Abandinus  1
 Aengus  5–6
 Andarta  20
 Anu (2)  22
 Belenus  48
 Brigit  55
 Ceridwen  61
 Cernunnos  61–62
 Coventina  68–69
 Dagda  70–71
 Danu (1)  72
 Diancecht  77–78
 Epona  91–92
 Gobniu  105
 Govannon  106
 Ialonus  133
 Icauna  133
 Iccovellauna  133
 Lenus  173
 Lug  178
 Macha  180–181
 Manannan (Mac Lir)
 187
 Manawyddan  187
 Matres  192
 Mor  203
 Morrigan  203–204
 Morvran  204
 Nantosuelta  213
 Neit  216
 Nuadu  226–227
 Ogmius  231
 Onuava  233
 Pen Annwen  245
 Chu Jung  65
 Erh Lang  92–93
 Feng Po  96
 Fu Shen  98
 Sheela Na Gig  283
 Sucellos  294
 Tailtiu  300
 Tegid Foel  308
 Tuatha de Danaan  324
 Yspaddaden Pencawr
 356
 Cenkalaniyammal  61
 cenote (sacred pool)  357
 Centeocihuatl  61
 Cerberus  122
 cereal crops. See corn; grain
 deities
 Ceres  61, 175, 248, 265,
 303, 309, 340
 Ceridwen  61, 204, 308
 Cernunnos  48, 61–62
 Cghene  62
 Chac  62
 chacmools 318
 Chac Uayab Xoc  62
 Chaitanya  62
 Chalchiuhtlatonal  37, 62,
 318
 Chalchiuhtlicue  62–63
 Chalchiutonatiuh. See Atl
 Chalchiutotolin  63
 Chalmecacihuilt  63
 Chalmecatl  63
 Chamer  63
 Chang Fei  63, 175, 176
 Chang Hs’ien  63
 Chang Tao Ling  64, 66
 Chantico  64
 Chaob  64
 Chaos  64, 92, 93
 chaos  281–282, 345
 Charis  64, 121
 Charon  123
 chastity  255
 Chattrosnisa  64
 Chaya  64, 273, 297
 Chibirias  64
 Chiccan  65
 Chicomecohuatl  65
 Chicomexochitl  65
 Chiconahui  65
 Chiconahuiehecatl  65
 Chiconahui Itzcuintli-Chan
tico  65
 Chikara  65
 childbirth. See birth
 children  23, 63, 86, 344,
 350
 China. See also Taoism;
 Tibet; specific gods, e.g.:
 Shen Nung
 Ba (1)  41
 Chang Fei  63
 Chang Hs’ien  63
 Han Xiang-Zhi  111
 Huang Ti  129–130
 Hung Sheng  131
 Kuei Shing  166
 Lu Pan  177–178
 Ma-zu  194
 Men Shen  195
 Nu Kua  226
 Pao Kung  242
 San Chou Niang
 Niang  273
 Sao Ching Niang
 Niang  274
 Shou Lao  284
 Sun Hou-Shi  296–297
 Tai-Sui-Jing  301
 T’ai Yi  300
 Tam Kung  301–302
 Tien Mu  314
 Tou Mou  321
 Tsai Shen  323
 Tu (1)  323
 Tzu Sun Niangniang
 325
 Yen Kuang Niang
 Niang  354
 Yu-Chiang  357
 Chinnamastaka  65
 Chi Sung Tzu  64
 Chiuke  65
 Chors  65
 Chos-Skyon  65
 Christ  45, 142
 Christianity  139, 149, 355.
 See also Gnostic Christian
ity
 Chronicle of Nestor 293
 chronology  xiii
 chthonic deities  x. See also
 earth; underworld; specific
 gods, e.g.: Chibirias
 Ah Uuc Ticab  9
 Aken  11
 Aker  11
 Akeru  11
 Ala  11–12
 Alisanos  12
 Alpanu  13
 Am-Heh  15
 Ammut  16
 Andjety  20
 Angru Mainyu  9, 20
 Anu (2)  22
 Arawn  26
 Areimanios  27
 Arianrhod  28
 Arsay  29
374 Index
 Tsunigoab  323
 Asase Yaa  31
 Ceridwen  61
 Cernunnos  61–62
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Geb  103
 Hine-Ahu-One  126
 Shango  282
 Susano-Wo  298
 Tzultacah  325–326
 Chu Jung  65
 Chul Tatic Chites Vaneg  66
 Chung K’uei  66
 Cihuacoatl-Quilaztli  66
 Cinxia  66
 Cipactli  66, 197, 311
 Cipactonal  66, 351
 Cit Chac Coh  66
 cities, patron of Greek
 36–37
 Citlalatonac  66
 Citlalicue  66, 66–67
 Citra  67
 Citrasena  56, 67
 Cittavasita  67
 Cizin  67
 Clementia  67
 Coatlicue  67, 69, 130, 233
 Coca-Mama  68
 Cocidius  68
 Cocijo  68
 Co(co)chimetl  68
 Col  68
 Colel Cab  68, 145
 Colop U Uichkin  68
 colwic 68
 Condatis  68
 confrontation theme  42
 contracts  29
 Contrebis  68
 corn
 Ah Mun  8
 Chicomecohuatl  65
 Gabjauja  100
 Halki  111
 Kore  162
 Osiris  235–236
 Pekko  245
 Pitao Cozobi  248
 Sif  285
 Tate Oteganaka  305
 Zara-Mama  358
 Corus  68
 Cospi codice  61, 312, 320
 courtyards  34
 Coventina  68–69
 cows/cattle  78, 104, 170,
 223, 271, 279
 Coyolxauhqui  67, 69, 311
 crafts, domestic  37
 craftsmen  255
 crane  129
 Ulu’tuyar Ulu Toyo’n
 Cratos  69
 creation
 Adro  5
 Agu’gux  7
 Akongo  11
 Alatangana  12
 Amma (2)  16
 Amun  17–18
 An (1)  18
 An (2)  18
 Antu  21
 Aondo  23
 Apap  23
 Archon(s)  27
 Arebati  27
 Ataa Naa Nyongmo
 35
 Aten  36
 Atua Fafine  38
 Atum  38–39
 Awonawilona  40
 Brahma  54
 Bumba  57
 Cagn  58
 Cghene  62
 Coatlicue  67
 Dyaus Pitar  83–84
 E Alom  85
 E Quaholom  85
 El  87–88
 Emeli Hin  89
 Enki  89–90
 Fidi Mukullu  96
 Gunabibi  107
 Huracan  131
 Imana  136
 Imra  137–138
 Itzam Na  143–144
 Ix Zacal Nok  145
 Jehovah  149
 Ka Tyeleo  151
 Kalunga  154
 Keawe  158
 Kitanitowit  161
 Kiya’rnarak  161
 Kukulcan  166
 Kumarbi  167
 Kumokums  167
 Kwoth  169
 Kyumbe  169
 Lesa  173–174
 Libanza  174–175
 Lisa  175
 Mal  185
 Malamanganga’e
 185–186
 Manito  188
 Manitu  188
 Manohel-Tohel  189
 Marduk  189–190
 Mayon  194
 Mbomba  194
 Mbotumbo  194
 Moma  202
 Mungan Ngour  206
 Mungu  206
 Nahui Ollin  210
 Na’ininen  211
 Nainuema  211
 Nammu  211
 Nanahuatl  212
 Nediyon  216
 Neith  216–217
 Ngai  219
 Niamye  219
 Nu Kua  226
 Nurelli  227
 Nut  227–228
 Nyame  228
 Nzambi  228
 Ocelotl  230
 Oduduwa  230–231
 O-Kuni-Nushi-No
Mikoto  232
 Olodumare  232
 Orunmila  235
 Osanobua  235
 Panao  241, 252
 Pemba  245
 Pon  249
 Pore  249
 Prometheus  253
 Prthu  254
 Ptah  255
 Qamai’ts  258
 Quat  259
 Quiahuitl  259–260
 Raluvimbha  262
 Re  264–265
 Rubanga  267
 Sabaoth  269
 Samael  272
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Suku  295
 Tangaroa  302
 Tate  304
 Tawa  306
 Te-Aka-la-Roe  307
 Teharon(hiawagon)
 308
 Te-Manava-Roa  307
 Te-Tanga-Engae  307
 Tiamat  314
 Tiki  315
 Tino Taata  316
 Tirawa  316
 Tirumal  316
 Tomwo’get  319
 Tonatiuh  320
 Toro  321
 Tororut  321
 Totilma’il  321
 328
 Umvelinkwangi  328
 Unkulunkulu  328
 Unumbote  329
 Uru’n Ajy Toyo’n  329
 Vahguru  333
 Vairacocha  333
 Visˇnu  342–343
 Waka  346
 Wakan Tanka
 346–347
 Wakonda  347
 Weri Kumbamba  348
 Yaldabaoth  353
 Yemekonji  354
 Yhwh  355
 Yng  356
 Yoalli Ehecatli  356
 Yoaltecuhtf  356
 crocodile  228
 Crowley, Aleister  46
 Cum Hau  69
 Cunda  69, 334
 Cunina  69
 Cupid. See Amor
 Cybele  38, 69, 169
 Cycles of Kings 55, 71, 72, 78
 Cypriot  24
 D
 Dabog  70
 Dadimunda  70
 Dagan (1) (Mesopotamian)
 41, 70
 Dagan (2) (Semitic)  70
 Dagan (3) (Kafir)  70
 Dagda  5, 52, 55, 70–71,
 178, 203, 324
 Daikoku  71, 85, 283
 Dakota Indians. See Native
 Americans
 Daksa  71
 Abhijit  1
 Aditi  4
 Anuradha  23
 Ardra  27
 Aslesa(s)  33
 Asvayujau  35
 Bharani  50
 Citra  67
 Danu (2)  72
 Dhanistha  75
 Dharma  75
 Diti  80
 Hasta  114
 Jyestha  150
 Kadru  151
Index 375
 Kasyapa  157
 Khasa  159
 Ksama  164
 Magha  181
 Mrgasiras  205
 Mula  206
 Naksatra(s)  211
 Prasuti  252
 Priti  253
 Punarvasu  256
 Purvabhadrapada  256
 Purvaphalguni  256
 Purvasadha  256
 Pusya  257
 Rati  263
 Revati  266
 Rohini  266
 Satabhisa  277
 Sati  277
 Sravana  292
 Sravistha  292
 Svadha  298
 Svati  299
 Uttarabhadrapada  330
 Uttarasadha  330
 Vac  332
 Virabhadra  342
 Dalai Lama  56, 269, 293,
 353
 damaru (drum)  288
 Damgalnuna  71, 189
 Damkina  71, 71, 85, 89,
 190
 Danaparamita  72
 dancing  15, 125, 170–171
 Danish  218–219
 Danu (1) (Celtic)  72, 81
 Danu (2) (Hindu)  72
 Daphne  25, 72
 Daramulum  44, 52, 72
 Darawigal  72
 darkness  349
 Datin  72
 dawn  39, 175, 205, 210,
 275, 312, 319, 329–330
 Daya  72
 death and the dead. See also
 underworld
 Chamer  63
 Cizin  67
 Cum Hau  69
 Disani  80
 Fe’e  96
 Giltine  105
 Hades  110
 Hunhau  131
 Ikal Ahau  134
 Itonde  143
 Kala  152
 Morta  204
 Mot  204–205
 Na Cha  209
 Ogiuwu  231
 Persephone  246
 Proserpina  253
 Savea Si’uleo  278
 Ta’xet  307
 Tia  314
 Tokakami  319
 Whiro  348
 Yama  353
 Yum Cimil  357
 Decima  72–73, 204, 226,
 243
 Dedwen  3, 73
 Delphi  25, 250
 Demeter  73
 Ceres  61
 Erinys  93
 Gaia  101
 Gunabibi  107
 Hades  110
 Hekate  119
 Kore  162
 Kybele  169
 Persephone  246
 Plutos  248
 Poseidon  250
 Zeus  359
 demetreioi 73
 demonic deities  45, 136,
 184, 203–204, 241, 345.
 See also evil deities
 Dena  73
 Deng  74
 Dercetius  74
 Derceto  74
 dergflaith 96
 desert  1
 desire  60, 125
 desolation  175
 destiny  19, 157, 187, 235
 destroyer/destruction  153,
 224–225, 288. See also spe
cific gods, e.g.: Nirrti
 Deva  35, 74, 74
 Devaki  45, 74, 163, 337
 Devananda  74
 Devapurohita  74
 Devasena  74, 289
 Deverra  74
 Devi  74, 184, 293
 Dhanada  74–75
 Dhanistha  75
 Dhanvantari  75, 156
 Dhara  75
 Dharani  75
 Aksayajnana-Karmanda
 11
 Anantamukhi  19
 Arapacana  26
 Cunda  69
 Janguli  148
 Mari (1)  190
 Parasurama  243
 Parna-Savari  243
 Prajnavardhani  251
 Ratnolka  264
 Sarvabuddhadharma
Kosavati  276
 Sarvakarmavaranavi
sodhani  276
 Sumati  296
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Dharma  75, 113, 214
 Dharmadhatuvagisvara  75
 Dharmakirtisagaraghosa  76
 Dharmamegha  76
 Dharmapala  47, 54, 76,
 117, 166, 182, 293, 353
 Dharmapratisamvit  76
 Dharmavasita  76
 Dharti Mata  76, 312
 Dhatar  76
 Dhisana  76
 Dhrtarastra  76
 Dhrti  76
 Dhruva  76
 Dhumavati  76–77
 Dhumorna  77, 353
 Dhumravati  77
 Dhupa  77
 Dhupatara  77
 Dhurjati  77
 Dhvajagrakeyura  77
 Dhvajosnisa  77
 Dhyanaparamita  77
 Dhyanibodhisattva  104,
 183, 272, 277
 Dhyanibuddha  77
 Adibuddha  3
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15–16
 Amoghasiddhi  16–17
 Dhanada  74
 Dhyanibuddhasakti  77
 Gundari-Myoo  107
 Jambhala  148
 Locana  176
 Lokesvara  176
 Mahakala  182
 Mahamantranusarini
 182
 Mahapratisara  183
 Mahapratyangira  183
 Mahasitavati  183
 Maitreya  185
 Mayajalakrama
Kurukulla  193
 Ratnasambhava
 263–264
 Sukla-Tara  295
 Tara  304
 Usnisa  330
 Vagisvara  332
 Vairocana  333–334
 Vajrapani  335
 Vajratara  335
 Dhyanibuddhasakti  77, 304
 Diana  27, 77, 332
 Diancecht  77–78, 198, 227
 Diang  78
 Dictynna  78
 Didi Thakrun  78
 Dievs  78, 278
 Digambara  78
 Dikbhavanavasi  51
 Dike  4, 78, 87, 94
 Dikkumara  78
 dikpala (guardian deities)
 Acala  2
 Agni  7
 Candra  60
 Chattrosnisa  64
 Dhrtarastra  76
 Dhvajosnisa  77
 Niladanda  220
 Nirrti  224, 225
 Padmosnisa  239
 Prajnantaka  251
 Ratnosnisa  264
 Soma  291
 Sumbha  296
 Sumbharaja  296
 Takkiraja  301
 Tejosnisa  308
 Tiksnosnisa  315
 Usnisa  330
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Vajraghanta  334
 Vajrapasi  335
 Vajrasphota  335
 Vajrosnisa  335
 Varuna  337
 Vayu (1)  338
 Vayu (2)  338
 Vighnantaka  341
 Virupaksa  342
 Visvosnisa  344
 Yama  353
 Yamantaka  353
 Diksa  78, 274
 Dionysos  78–79
 Ariadne  28
 Bacchus  43
 Dusˇara  83
 Hera  121
 Indr  138
 Leukothea  174
 Liber  175
 Orotalt  235
 Persephone  246
 Priapos  252
 Sabazios  269
376 Index
 Sarapis  275
 Semele  280
 Zeus  359
 Dioskouroi  79
 Dipa  79
 Dipa Tara  79
 Dipankara  79
 Dipti  79
 Dirghadevi  79
 Dis Pater  79
 Disa  79
 Disani  44, 79–80, 138, 242,
 249, 294, 360
 Disciplina  80
 Discordia  80, 93
 disease  156, 250–251. See
 also plague; sickness
 Disir  80
 ditches. See canals and
 ditches
 Diti  80
 divine judgment  187
 Divona  80
 Djila’qons  81
 dogs  22, 92–93
 Dogumrik  81
 Dolichenus  81, 150
 Dombi  81
 Don  13, 28, 72, 81, 106
 Donar  81, 304
 Dongo  81
 Donn  81
 Doris  17, 81, 232
 Doudoun  81
 dragon  268
 Dravidians (Tamils)
 Amma (1)  16
 Ammavaru  16
 Ankalamman  21
 Bala-Sakti  45
 Cankilikkaruppan  60
 Cenkalaniyammal  61
 Katavul  158
 Korravai  162
 Manmatha  189
 Mariyamman  190
 Mayon  194
 Murukan  207
 Muttalamman  208
 Nediyon  216
 Pradyumna  251
 Tirumal  316
 Venda  339
 Dreamtime  44, 72
 drought  41, 160
 Dsahadoldza  81
 Duillae  81
 Dulha Deo  82
 Dumuzi  viii, 4, 38, 45, 82,
 104, 107, 137, 138
 Dur  82
 Egeria  86
 Egres  86
 Egypt  viii. See also pharaohs;
 specific gods, e.g.: Banebd
jedet
 Amun  17–18
 Anat  19
 Anubis  22
 Aten  36
 Atum  38–39
 Ba (2)  41
 Baal  41–42
 Bastet  47
 Bes  49–50
 Geb  103
 Durangama  82
 Durga  82–83
 Aparajita  23
 Aticandika  37
 Camunda  59
 Candanayika  59
 Candarupa  59
 Candavati  59
 Candogra  60
 Chinnamastaka  65
 Gramadevata  106
 Jaya-Vijaya  149
 Kalika  153
 Katyayani  158
 Kumari  167
 Mahisasuramardini
 184
 Maya(devi)  193
 Navadurga(s)  215
 Pracanda  251
 Raudri  264
 Rudracandra  268
 Rudracarcika  268
 Rudrani  268
 Sakti  271
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Ugracandika  327
 Vana-Durga  336
 Durjaya  83
 Dusˇara  35, 83
 Duzhi  83
 Dvipabhavanavasi  51
 Dvipakumara  83
 Dyaus Pitar  83–84, 139,
 150, 254, 343
 dying god  45
 Dzivaguru  84
 E
 E Alom  85, 85, 107
 E Quaholom  85, 85, 107
 Ea  1, 71, 85, 89, 189, 213,
 227
 Eacus  85
 E-akkil (sanctuary)  243
 earth  100–101, 103, 254,
 287, 321, 323. See also
 chthonic; specific gods, e.g.:
 Tanu’ta
 earthquake  151, 211, 267,
 360
 Easter  38
 E-babbar 272
 Ebisu  71, 85–86, 162, 283
 Edda. See Prose Edda
 Edeke  86
 Edusa  86
 Eee-A-O  86
 E-engurra (sanctuary)  89
 Hapy  112, 160, 217
 Hathor  115–116
 Hauhet  116, 118, 231
 Heh  116, 118, 231
 Herysˇaf  123–124
 Hesat  124
 He Zur  117
 Horus  128
 Ihy  134
 Imiut  136
 Inmutef  139
 Ipy  140
 Isdes  141
 Isis  141–142
 Isˇtar  143
 Kauket  158
 Kebechet  159
 Kek  159
 Khons(u)  160
 Mihos  198
 Min  199
 Naunet  215
 Neith  216–217
 Nekmet Awai  217
 Neper  217
 Nephthys  217–218
 Nun  227
 Nut  227–228
 Ogdoad  231
 Osiris  235–236
 Pakhet  240
 Ptah  255
 Re  264–265
 Renenutet  265
 Sakhmet  270–271
 S
 ˇed  279
 Sefkhet-Abwy  279
 Sekhet-Hor  279
 S
 ˇepset  280
 Sesˇat  281
 Seth  281–282
 Sia  284
 Sobek  289–290
 Sopedu  291
 S
 ˇu  293
 Ta-Bitjet  300
 Tatevali  305
 Taweret  306
 Tefnut  308
 Thoth  313–314
 Wadj Wer  346
 Wepwawet  347
 Yah  352
 Ehecatl  86, 86, 259
 Ehecatl-Quetzalcoatl  86,
 351
 Eileithyia  86–87, 121
 Eirene  87, 94, 248
 Eji Ogbe  87
 Ek Chuah  87
 Ekadasarudra  23, 87, 112,
 140, 148, 156, 181, 220,
 293, 297, 341, 342
 Ekajata  87, 181
 Ekanetra  87, 87
 Ekarudra  87, 87
 Ekur (sanctuary)  90
 El  87–88, 88
 Elagabal  88
 El’eb  88, 88
 elephants  56, 102, 181, 284
 Eleusinian Mysteries 61, 73
 Elim  88, 88, 89
 Elkunirsa  32, 88
 Ellaman  88
 Ellel  88
 Ellil  88, 89, 91, 206, 208
 Eloai  89
 Elohim  88, 89
 Emeli Hin  89
 Eme’mqut  89, 201, 260,
 339
 Emesˇ 89, 91
 Emesˇlam 218
 E-meteursag 358
 Enbilulu  89
 Endouellicus  89
 Endursaga  89
 Eninnu 221
 Enki  89–90
 A’asˇ 1
 Abgal  1
 Abu  2
 An (1)  18
 Apsu  26
 Asalluha  31
 Asˇnan  33
 Enbilulu  89
 Enkimdu  90
 Inana  137
 Isimud  141
 Isˇkur  142
 Lahar  170
 Marduk  189
 Musdamma  207
 Nammu  211
 Nansˇe  213
Ningal  220
 Neti  219
 feline goddess  47
 Index 377
 Ningikuga  221
 Ningirsu  221
 Ninhursaga  222
 Sirara  286
 Tiamat  314
 Uttu  330
 Enkimdu  90
 Enlil  90
 An (1)  18
 Asˇnan  33
 Damgalnuna  71
 Emesˇ 89
 Enki  89
 Ennugi  91
 Enten  91
 Huban  130
 Igigi  134
 Ki  161
 Lahar  170
 Marduk  190
 Mulliltu  206
 Musdamma  207
 Nanna (1)  212
 Nergal  218
 Ninazu  220
 Ninhursaga  221
 Nunbarsegunu  227
 Nusˇku  227
 Pa-bil-sag  239
 Enmesarra  90
 Ennead  39, 91, 103, 313
 Ennead (genealogy)  218, 227
 Ennugi  91
 Enten  91
 Enuma Elis ˇ 21, 26, 33, 85
 Enundu  91, 104
 Enzu  91
 Eos  6, 39, 53, 91, 247, 312
 Eostre  91, 236
 E-padun-tila (sanctuary of
 Ninurta)  224
 Epic Cycle (Hesiod)  7
 Epic of Gilgames ˇ 85
 Epimetheus  91, 253
 Epona  91–92, 204, 266
 equestrian. See horses
 Erebos  7, 92
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Allatu(m)  13
 Anunnaki  23
 Dumuzi  82
 Enki  89
 Galla  101
 Gesˇtin-Ana  104
 Grismadevi  106
 Inana  137, 138
 Lelwani  173
 Namtar  212
 Nergal  218
 Nergal and Eresˇkigal 85
 Ninazu  220
 Erh Lang  92–93
 Erinys  93, 217, 250
 Eris  80, 93, 128, 191
 Eriu  55, 93, 203
 Erkilek  93
 Eros  17, 93
 Erra  93, 104, 178, 279
 Erua. See Zarpanitu(m)
 Es  93
 Eshu  93–94
 Eskimo. See Inuits
 Esˇmun  94, 195
 Estsanatlehi  94, 215, 323,
 356
 Esu  94
 Esus  94, 304
 Etruscans. See also specific
 gods, e.g.: Veive
 Alpanu  13
 Ani  20
 Aplu  25
 Atunis  39
 Cautha  61
 Laran  172
 Nethuns  219
 Nortia  226
 Summamus  296
 Thalna  312
 Thesan  312
 Tin  315
 Turan  325
 Uni  328
 Voltumna  344
 Eunomia  87, 94
 Euros  94
 Eurynome  94
 evening  271
 evil deities  2, 43, 186, 189.
 See also demonic deities
 ‘eye of Horus’  128
 F
 Fabulinus  95
 Faivarongo  95, 315
 falcon  128
 Faraguvol  95
 Faro  95, 245, 309
 fate  170, 173, 226, 243, 360
 father of the tribe  70–71
 Fauna  95, 95
 Faunus  95, 95
 Fe  95–96
 Fe’e  96
 Fei Lian. See Feng Po
 Fejervary-Mayer codice  61,
 312, 320
 Felicitas  96
 female force  248, 291–292
 femininity  144
 Feng Po  96
 fertility. See also specific gods,
 e.g.: Nin-Imma
 Adonis  4
 Ala  11–12
 Anat  19
 Aphrodisias  24
 Asase Yaa  31
 Asˇtaroth  34
 Astarte  34
 Asˇtoreth  34
 Atete  36
 Brigit  55
 Ceridwen  61
 Cernunnos  61–62
 Disani  79–80
 Epona  91–92
 Estsanatlehi  94
 Fjorgyn  96
 Freyja  97
 Freyr  97–98
 Hapy  112
 Inana  137–138
 Isˇtar  142–143
 Jumis  149
 Kronos  163
 Kshumai  164
 Ma  180
 Macha  180–181
 Min  199
 Mokos  202
 Myrrha  208
 Nanaja  212
 Nerthus  218–219
 Nin’insinna  222
 Obatala  230
 Ome Tochtli  233
 Onuava  233
 Priapos  252–253
 Pusti  256
 Quadesˇ 258–259
 Rosmerta  267
 Saraddevi  275
 S
 ˇarra Itu  276
 S
 ˇausˇka  278
 Seta  281
 S
 ˇulmanitu  296
 S
 ˇulman(u)  295–296
 S
 ˇul-pa-e  296
 Telepinu  308–309
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton
 318
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli  319
 Totoltecatl  321
 Ull  328
 Wadj Wer  346
 Xochiquetzal  
350–351
 Yauhqueme  354
 Yolkai Estan  356
 Feryha  225
 fever  153
 Fides  96
 Fidi Mukullu  96
 Finland  86, 126
 fire. See also hearth; specific
 gods, e.g.: Tatevali
 Agni  7
 Anala  18
 Chu Jung  65
 Gabija  100
 Gerra  104
 Gibil  104
 Hastsezini  115
 Hephaistos  120–121
 Hi-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
 126
 Ho-Musubi-No-Kami
 127
 Ho-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
No-Kami  127
 Huehuecoyotl  130
 Intal  139
 Ixcozauhqui  145
 Jagaubis  147
 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 152
 Lo’cin-po’gil  176
 Mahuikez  184
 Me’mdeye-Eci’e  195
 Niha-Tsu-Hi-No
Kami  219
 Tabiti  300
 Tatosi  305
 Verbti  339
 Vesta  340
 Vulcanus  345
 fishermen/fish  15, 40, 48,
 62, 134–135, 199, 234,
 256, 302, 316. See also spe
cific gods, e.g.: Opochtli
 Fjorgyn  96
 Flaitheas  96
 flood waters  44, 80, 83
 Flora  96–97
 florists  67
 flowers  96–97
 fog  355
 Fon  7, 40, 48, 173, 175,
 177, 193, 232, 344
 foodstuffs  321
 forests  2, 27, 162, 356
 forethought  254
 Forseti  45, 97
 Fortuna  97, 292, 325
 fortune  7, 23, 87, 97, 135,
 159, 268, 278, 325. See also
 luck; specific gods, e.g.:
 Abhijit
378 Index
 Vighnantaka  341
 Ops  234
 founders  72, 260
 Freyja  97, 98, 119, 177,
 237, 336
 Freyr  97, 97–98, 225, 336
 Frigg  45, 96, 98, 99, 103
 Fu Shen  98, 323
 Fujin  98
 Fukurokuju  98–99, 149,
 283
 Fulla  99
 funerary  22, 217–218, 280
 Futo-Tama  99
 Futsu-Nushi-No-Kami  99
 G
 Gabija  100, 147
 Gabjauja  100
 Gad  100
 Gaganaganja  100
 Gaia  100–101
 Eros  93
 Kronos  163
 Meter  197
 Nereus  218
 Ouranos  237
 Pan  241
 Phorkys  247
 Pontos  249
 Rhea  266
 Tethys  310
 Themis  312
 Titans  316
 Gajavahana  101
 Gal Bapsi  101
 Galla  101
 Gallic gods  20, 61–62,
 91–92, 133. See also specific
 gods, e.g. : Borvo
 Ganapati  101, 101
 Ganapatihrdaya  101
 Ganaskidi  101
 Gandha  101
 Gandhari  101
 Gandha Tara  101
 Ganesa  101–102
 Aparajita  24
 Bharati  51
 Buddhi  56
 Durga  83
 Ganapati  101
 Gauri  103
 Heruka  123
 Kubuddhi  166
 Maha-Ganapati  181
 Parna-Savari  243
 Parvati  244
 Pustí  256
 Riddhi  266
 Siddhi  284
 Vighnesvaranugramurti
 341
 Ganga  102, 125, 195, 244
 Gangir  102
 Garmangabis  102
 Garuda  102
 Amoghasiddhi  16
 Khyung-Gai mGo-Can
 160
 Krsna  164
 Lei Kung  173
 Narayana  214
 Vaikuntha  333
 Vaisnavi  334
 Visˇnu  343
 Visvarupa  344
 Gatumdug  102
 Gaunab  102–103, 323
 Gauri  59, 60, 103, 103
 Gautama Buddha. See Bud
dha
 Gayatri  54, 103, 276
 Geb  103
 Ennead  91
 Isis  141
 Khnum  160
 Nehebu-Kau  216
 Nephthys  217
 Nut  227, 228
 Osiris  235
 Seth  281
 S
 ˇu  293
 Tar  303
 Tefnut  308
 Gefjon  103
 Gemini  102, 104
 genia loci 55
 Genius  104
 Germanic gods  ix. See also
 Nordic gods; Vikings
 Alcis  12
 Donar  81
 Freyja  97
 Freyr  97–98
 Frigg  98
 Irmin  140
 Mani  188
 Ostara  236
 Othin  236–237
 Tiwaz  317
 Ull  328
 Wodan  348–349
 Gerra  104, 104
 Gesˇtin-Ana  104
 Gesˇtu  104
 Geus Tasan  104
 Geus Urvan  104
 Ghantakarna  104
 Ghantapani  104
 Ghasmari  104
 Oreades  234
 Pan  241
 Ghentu  104
 Gibil  104
 Gibini  104
 Giltine  105
 Gish  105, 138, 274
 Giszida  105, 221
 Gita  105, 172
 Glaucus  105
 Glaukos  94, 105
 Gleti  105
 Gnostic Christianity
 Adamas  3
 Archon(s)  27
 Astaphaios  33–34
 Eloai  89
 Oraios  234
 Pistis  248
 Pronoia  253
 Sabaoth  269
 Samael  272
 Sophia  291–292
 Yaldabaoth  353
 Zoe  360
 goats  311
 Gobniu  5, 105, 324
 Gonaqade’t  106
 Gon-Po Nag-Po  106
 good fortune. See fortune
 Goraknath  106
 Govannon  105, 106
 Graces. See Gratiae
 Grahamatrka  106, 334
 grain deities  162, 166, 217,
 222–223, 245. See also corn
 Gramadevata  106
 Grannus  106, 286
 Gratiae  64, 106, 118
 Grdhrasya  106
 Greco-Roman period. See
 also Greek gods and
 deities; Roman gods and
 deities; specific gods, e.g.:
 Erebos
 Anubis  22
 Baal  42
 Bes  50
 Hephaistos  120–121
 Himerus  125
 Hymenaios  132
 Isis  141, 142
 Iunones  144
 Leukothea  174
 Mandulis  187–188
 Minos  200
 Mithra  200
 Naiades  210–211
 Napaeae  213
 Nemesis  217
 Nereides  218
 Nike  219–220
 Okeanides  231–232
 Parcae  243
 Priapos  252–253
 Satyr  278
 Semele  279–280
 Themis  312
 Greek gods and deities  viii,
 ix, xi. See also Greco
Roman period; specific gods,
 e.g.: Eirene
 Aphrodite  24
 Apollo  25–26
 Ares  28
 Artemis  30
 Asklepios  32–33
 Athena  36–37
 Attis  38
 Daphne  72
 Demeter  73
 Dike  78
 Dionysos  78–79
 Eileithyia  86–87
 Gaia  100–101
 Glaukos  105
 Harpina  113
 Hebe  118
 Hekate  119
 Helen  119–120
 Helios  120
 Hera  121
 Herakles  121–122
 Hermes  122–123
 Hestia  124
 Horkos  128
 Horus  128
 Hyakinthos  131–132
 Hygieia  132
 Iapetos  133
 Iris  140
 Kabeiroi  151
 Kinyras  161
 Klotho  162
 Kore  162
 Kouretes  162
 Kratos  163
 Lachesis  170
 Leto  174
 Logos  176
 Meter  197
 Metis  197
 Mnemosyne  201
 Okeanos  232
 Onuris  233–234
 Ouranos  237
 Paiawon  240
 Peitho  245
 Perse  246
 Persephone  246
 Phanes  247
Yamantaka  353
 Index 379
 Phosphoros  247
 Polydeukes  249
 Pontos  249
 Poseidon  249–250
 Posis Das  250
 Prometheus  253
 Rhea  266
 Selene  279
 Sophia  291–292
 Sothis  292
 Tethys  310
 Thetis  313
 Titans  316
 Zeus  359–360
 Zoe  360
 Grismadevi  106
 guardian deities. See also dik
pala; specific gods, e.g.:
 Kunado-No-Kami
 Alad Udug Lama  12
 Ankalamman  21
 Anna Perenna  21
 Anti  21
 Apacita  23
 Bes  49–50
 Chalchiuhtlicue  63
 Ganesa  102
 Heimdall  118–119
 Hung Sheng  131
 Ina’hitelan  137
 Kuan Yin  165
 Kuku-Ki-Waka-Muro
Tsuna-Ne-No-Kami
 166
 Kushi-Iwa-Mado-No
Mikoto  168
 Kutkhu  168–169
 Lokapala  176
 Mahapratisara  183
 Maharaksa  183
 Mahasitavati  183
 Mi-Kura-Tana-No
Kami  198
 Mulindwa  206
 Na Cha  209
 Nahi  210
 Na’nqa-ka’le  213
 Osande  235
 Peju’lpe  245
 Qaitakalnin  258
 Securita  279
 S
 ˇed  279
 Si’mskalin  285
 Sopedu  291
 Toko’yoto  319
 Varuna  337
 Wanka  347
 Wawki  347
 Ya’halan  352
 Ya’halna’ut  352
 Yama  353
 Yine’ane’ut  355–356
 Guari  81, 104, 256
 Gugulanna  92, 106
 Gujo  106
 Gukumatz  85, 107
 Gula  13, 107, 110, 220
 Gul-S ˇesˇ 107
 Gulsilia Mata  107
 Gunabibi  107
 Gundari-Myoo  107
 Gunnodoyak  107
 Gunura  107
 Gur-Gyi Mgon-Po  106,
 107
 guru 55
 Gusilim  107
 Gwydion  13, 108, 176
 Gwynn Ap Nudd  26, 108,
 123
 H
 Ha  109
 Hachacyum  2, 58, 109, 110
 Hachiman  109
 Hadad  35, 41, 109–110,
 359
 Hades  27, 73, 79, 110, 119,
 122, 123, 196, 234, 246,
 248, 250, 312
 Hahana Ku  110
 Hahanu  110
 Haida Indians. See Native
 Americans
 Haili’laj  110
 Hakea  110
 Hala  110
 Halahala  110–111, 288
 Haldi  44, 111
 Halki  111
 Hamadryades  111
 Hamavehae  111
 Hammon  111
 Hammu Mata  111
 Hammurabi  viii
 Hani(s)  111
 Hani-Yasu-Hiko  111, 111
 Hani-Yasu-Hime  111, 111
 Hannahannas  111, 118, 
308
 Hansa  111
 Hanui-o-rangi  111–112
 Hanuman  112
 Han Xiang-zi  41, 111
 Hao  112
 Hapy  112, 160, 217
 Hara  112
 Hara Ke  112
 Harakhti  112, 128
 healing. See also health; mid
wives; physician deities;
 specific gods, e.g.: Ocelus
 Aesculapius  6
 Hara-Yama-Tsu-Mi  112
 Hardaul  112–113
 Harendotes  113, 113
 Hari  4, 113, 214
 Hariti  113
 Harmachis  113, 128
 Harmonia  28, 113, 191
 Haroeris  113, 119, 128, 
304
 Harpina  113
 Harpokrates  46, 113, 113,
 114, 128, 142
 Harsa  114, 129
 Harsiese  114, 128
 Harsomtus  114, 128
 harvests  152, 234, 237, 274
 Hasameli  114
 Hasta  114
 Hastehogan  114
 Hastsbaka  114
 Hastsebaad  114
 Hastseltsi  114
 Hastseoltoi  115
 Hastseyalti  115
 Hastsezini  115
 Hatdastsisi  115
 Hathor  115–116
 Anat  19
 Anti  21
 Anukis  22
 Bastet  47
 Harsomtus  114
 Horus  128
 Ihy  134
 Inmutef  139
 Isis  141
 Khons(u)  160
 Nekmet Awai  217
 Quadesˇ 258
 Sakhmet  270
 Sobek  290
 Tasenetnofret  304
 Hatmehyt  46, 116
 Hatthi  116
 Haubas  116
 Hauhet  116, 118, 231
 Haukim  116
 Haumea  116, 124
 Haumiatiketike  116–117
 Haurun  117
 Hawaiian gods  116,
 124–125, 156, 158, 164,
 170–171, 177, 245. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Papatu
anuku
 Hayagriva  117, 190, 193,
 243
 Haya-Ji  117
 Hayasum  117
 Hayasya  117
 Hazzi  117
 Ah Uincir Dz’acab  9
 Apollo  25–26
 Asklepios  32–33
 Basamum  47
 Belenus  48
 Borvo  53
 Endouellicus  89
 Esˇmun  94
 Geb  103
 Ghantakarna  104
 Gula  107
 Hala  110
 Kamrusepa  156
 Lenus  173
 Meditrina  194
 Nuadu  226–227
 Sadrapa  270
 Sirona  286
 Sukuna-Hikona  295
 Teteoinnan  310
 Tozi  322
 Zapotlantenan  358
 health  33, 132, 178
 hearth  40, 64, 124, 144,
 172, 176, 188, 245–246,
 312, 340. See also specific
 gods, e.g.: Hestia
 heaven  149
 Hebat  29, 117–118, 276,
 310
 Hebe  87, 118, 121, 149,
 150
 Hegemone  118
 Heh  116, 118, 231
 Heimdall  118–119, 177
 Hekate  119, 179, 279
 Heket  119
 Hel  45, 119, 123, 127, 213
 Helen  24, 119–120, 217,
 360. See also Trojan War;
 Troy
 Helios  91, 120, 132, 275,
 279, 312
 Hemantadevi  120
 Hendursaga  120
 Hephaistos  24, 28, 64,
 120–121, 151, 255, 345
 Hera  21, 28, 30, 86, 87,
 110, 118, 120, 121, 121,
 140, 174, 325, 359
 Herakles  10, 28, 37, 118,
 121, 121–122, 124, 195,
 218, 253, 359
 Hercules  2, 122, 231. See
 also Herakles
 herdsmen. See
 shepherds/herdsmen
380 Index
 Rahu  261
 Heret-Kau  122
 Hermaphroditos  122
 Hermes  37, 73, 122,
 122–123, 241, 246, 325,
 359
 Hermod  123
 Hermus  123
 Herne  108, 123
 heroes/heroic deities  29,
 107, 121–122, 201–203,
 253, 272, 306. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Nan
abozho
 Heros  123
 Heruka  11, 56, 123, 124,
 211
 Herysˇaf  123–124
 Hesat  124
 Hestia  124, 340
 Hetepes-Sekhus  124
 Hevajira  124, 273, 335
 Hexchuchan  124
 He Xian-gu  41, 117
 He Zur  117
 Hi’aika  116, 124–125
 Hi-Hiya-Hi  125
 Hiisi  125
 Hikoboshi  15, 125
 Hiko-Sashiri-No-Kami  
125
 Hilal  125
 Hi’lina  125
 Himavan  102, 125, 195,
 244
 Himerus  125
 Hina  125, 126, 189, 245
 Hina-Uri  126
 Hinduism  ix, x. See also
 Dravidians; specific gods,
 e.g.: Dharani
 Aditi  4
 Agni  7
 Ankalamman  21
 Brahma  54
 Danu (2)  72
 Deva  74
 Dhara  75
 Dharma  75
 Durga  82–83
 Dyaus Pitar  83–84
 Ellaman  88
 Ganesa  101–102
 Ganga  102
 Ghantakarna  104
 Hanuman  112
 Hardaul  112–113
 Hatthi  116
 Himavan  125
 Iksvaku  135
 Ila  135
 Indra  138–139
 Indrani  139
 Indukari  139
 Isa (1)  140
 Jagannath  147
 Jvaraharisvara  150
 Jyestha  150
 Kala  152
 Kalavikarnika  153
 Kali (1)  153
 Kalki(n)  154
 Kama(deva)  154–155
 Karkota  157
 Kasyapa  157
 Kaumudi  158
 Krsna  163–164
 Ksetrapala  164
 Kubera  166
 Kubjika  166
 Kulika  167
 Kundalini  167
 Kurukulla  168
 Laksmi  171
 Lokapala  176
 Mahabala  181
 Maha-Ganapati  181
 Mahanaga  182
 Mahapadma  182
 Mahisa  184
 Mangala  188
 Manu  189
 Mari Mai  190
 Marici  190
 Marutgana  191
 Mata  191
 Matara  192
 Mater Matuta  192
 Mena  195
 Minaksi  199
 Nagaraja  210
 Naksatra  211
 Nandi(n)  212
 Nirrti  224–225
 Ola Bibi  232
 Padma  239
 Pancanana  241–242
 Parendi  243
 Parjanya  243
 Parvati  244
 Pasupati  244
 Pattinidevi  244
 Pavana  245
 Phul Mata  247
 Pradhana  251
 Prajapati  251
 Pratyangira  252
 Prsni  254
 Prthivi  254
 Prthu  254
 Pusan  256
 Pusti  256
 Radha  261
 History of Races 72
 Hittavainen  126
 Hittites and Hurrians  viii
 A’asˇ 1
 Alalu  12
 Halki  111
 Raka (1)  262
 Rama  262
 Rati  263
 Ratri  264
 Raudri  264
 Rbhus  264
 Revanta  265
 Rudra  267–268
 Samba  272
 Sani  273
 Sankari  274
 Sankha(pala)  274
 Santa  274
 Santoshí Mata  274
 Sarasvati  275–276
 Sati  277
 Savitar  278–279
 Sesa(naga)  280
 Shani  283
 Sindhu  286
 Sita  287
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Skanda  289
 Sugriva  294
 Sukra  295
 Sura  297
 Surya (1)  297–298
 Taksaka  301
 Tara  303–304
 Tripura  322
 Usas  329–330
 Vac  332
 Vaisnavi  334
 Valli  336
 Varaha  336
 Varuna  337
 Vata  338
 Vayu (1)  338
 Vindhya  342
 Virabhadra  342
 Viraj  342
 Visˇnu  342–343
 Vrtra  345
 Yaksas  353
 Yama  353
 Yami  353
 Hine-Ahu-One  126, 126,
 302
 Hine-Ata-Uira  126, 126,
 302
 Hine-Nui-Te-Po  125, 126,
 126, 193, 302
 Hinglaj(-Mata)  126
 Hinkon  126
 Hi-No-Kagu-Tsuchi  126,
 146, 201
 Hiranyagarbha  126
 Hiruko  86, 126, 146
 Historia Dancia (Saxo)  45,
 98, 127
 Hasameli  114
 Hebat  117–118
 Inara  138
 Jarri  148
 Kamrusepa  156
 Kumarbi  167
 Kusˇuh  168
 Peruwa  247
 Rundas  268
 S
 ˇausˇka  278
 S
 ˇutekh  298
 Taru  304
 Telepinu  308–309
 Tesub  310
 Tilla  315
 Hlothyn  126
 Hoder  45, 127, 213, 336
 Hoenir  127, 199
 Hokushin-O-Kami  127
 homajakalika (fire device)
 325
 Ho-Musubi-No-Kami  127
 Ho-No-Kagu-Tsuchi-No
Kami  127
 Honus  127
 hope  292
 Ho-Po  127
 Horae 312
 Horagalles  127, 264, 313
 Horkos  93, 128
 horses
 Asar  31
 Belenus  48
 Epona  91–92
 Freyr  98
 Hayasya  117
 Kalki(n)  154
 Peruwa  247
 Pollux  249
 Polydeukes  249
 Rhiannon  266
 Rubanga  267
 Horus  xi, 128
 Anti  21
 Banebdjedet  46
 Geb  103
 Harakhti  112
 Harendotes  113
 Harmachis  113
 Haroeris  113
 Harpokrates  113
 Harsiese  114
 Harsomtus  114
 Hathor  115
 Hekate  119
Index 381
 Ihy  134
 Isis  142
 Min  199
 Neith  217
 Onuris  234
 Osiris  235, 236
 Sekhet-Hor  279
 Seth  281, 282
 Sopedu  291
 Ta-Bitjet  300
 Tasenetnofret  304
 Wadjet  346
 Wepwawet  347
 Wosret  349
 Hotei  283
 Hotel  128
 Hotra  276
 Hotr(a)  128
 Hours  129
 household/home  102, 124,
 155, 185, 198, 212, 232
 HRIH mantra 15
 Hrsikesa  114, 129
 Hsi Wang Mu  129
 Hu  129
 Huaca  129, 347
 Huanacauri  129
 Huang Ti  41, 129–130,
 240, 349
 Hubal  130
 Huban  130
 Huehuecoyotl  130
 Huehuecoyotl-Coyotli
nahual  130
 Huehuetotl  130
 Huichol Indians. See Mexico
 Huiracocha. See Vairacocha
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Coatlicue  67
 Coyolxauhqui  69
 Mexitli  197
 Ometeotl  233
 Painal  240
 Teicauhtzin  308
 Tetzahauteotl  310
 Tetzahuitl  310
 Tezcatlipoca  312
 Tlacahuepan  317
 Tlaloc  318
 Vitzilipuztli  344
 Huixtocihuatl  130
 human/blood sacrifice  30,
 38, 304. See also meriah
 rituals
 HUM mantra 11, 16
 Hun Hunapu  131, 131
 Hunab Ku  131, 131, 144
 Hunapu  131, 131
 Hunaunic. See Chaob
 Hung Sheng  131
 Hunhau  131
 hunting. See also specific gods,
 e.g.: Onuris
 Ah Cancun  8
 Ah Tabai  9
 Apollo  25–26
 Arduinna  27
 Asˇpalis  33
 Erkilek  93
 Hastseoltoi  115
 Hinkon  126
 Hittavainen  126
 Huvi  131
 Igalilik  134
 Murukan  207
 Opochtli  234
 Pakhet  240
 Picvu’cin  247
 Rang  263
 Revanta  265
 Tapio  303
 Tewi’xilak  311
 Toa’lalit  319
 Tunek  324–325
 Hurabtil  131
 Huracan  131
 Hurrians. See Hittites and
 Hurrians
 Huvi  131
 Hyakinthos  131–132
 Hygieia  33, 132
 Hyksos Dynasty  19
 Hymenaios  132
 Hyperion  91, 120, 132,
 237, 279, 312, 316
 Hypnos  132, 203, 228, 291,
 312
 Hypsistos  12, 132
 I
 Ialonus  68, 133
 Iapetos  91, 133, 237, 253,
 316
 Ibo (Africa)  11–12, 65, 135
 Icauna  133
 Icci  133, 328
 Iccovellauna  133
 ice  348
 Icelandic gods. See Nordic
 gods; Vikings
 Idunn  53, 133
 Ifa  133–134
 Ifru  134
 Igalilik  134
 Igigi  23, 134
 Ignerssuak  134
 Ihoiho  134
 Ih P’en  134, 145
 Ihy  134
 ika (fish)  302
 Ikal Ahau  134
 Ikatere  134–135
 Ikenga  135
 Iksvaku  135
 Iku-Ikasuchi-No-Kami  135
 Il  88, 135
 Ila  135, 276
 Ilaalge  135
 Ilabrat  135
 Ilat  135, 281, 321
 I’lena  135
 Illiad and Odyssey (Homer)
 Aphrodite  24
 Ares  28
 Artemis  30
 Asklepios  32
 Athena  37
 Erinys  93
 Gaia  100
 Hades  110
 Hephaistos  120, 121
 Hera  121
 Hermes  122
 Paiawon  240
 Rhea  266
 Ilmarinen  136
 Ilyapa  136
 Im  136
 Imana  136
 Imbolc 55
 Imiut  136
 Immap Ukua  136
 Immat  136
 immortals  41, 60, 111, 117,
 171–172, 174, 178, 360
 Imporcitor  136
 Imra  80, 81, 105, 136–137,
 203, 206, 284, 294
 Ina  126
 Ina’hitelan  137, 352
 Inana  137–138
 Anunnaki  23
 Ceres  61
 Dumuzi  82
 Enki  89
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Gesˇtin-Ana  104
 Grismadevi  106
 Lilith  175
 Nanna (1)  212
 Ninhursaga  221
 Quadesˇ 258
 S
 ˇara  275
 Utu  331
 Inana’s Descent 82, 219, 223
 Inara  138
 Inari  138
 Inazuma  138
 Inca. See also specific gods, e.g.:
 Mama-Kilya
 Apacita  23
 Apo  25
 Huaca  129
 Huanacauri  129
 Ilyapa  136
 Initi  140
 Mama Qoca  186
 sun gods  140
 Vairacocha  333
 Wanka  347
 Wawki  347
 India  ix. See also Buddhism;
 Dravidians; Hinduism;
 Jainism
 Acchupta  3
 Agni  7
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15–16
 Amoghasiddhi  16–17
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Brahma  54
 Buddha  56
 Dharma  75
 Durga  82–83
 Dyaus Pitar  83–84
 Gandhari  101
 Ganesa  101–102
 Kali (1)  153
 Kama(deva)  154–155
 Krsna  163–164
 Laksmi  171
 Mahakali  182
 Maitreya  185
 Manjusri  188–189
 Parvati  244
 Poleramma  249
 Prthivi  254
 Ratnasambhava
 263–264
 Sarasvati  275–276
 Sati  277
 Sita  287
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Skanda  289
 Vairocana  333–334
 Varuna  337
 Vayu (1)  338
 Visˇnu  342–343
 indoea padi (mother of rice)
 273
 Indr  80, 105, 138
 Indra  138–139
 Aditi  4
 Anala  18
 Anila  20
 Apa  23
 Arjuna  29
 Danu (2)  72
 Dhara  75
 Dhruva  76
 Dyaus Pitar  83
 Gish  105
 Hevajira  124
382 Index
 Enlil  90
 Isˇtanu  142
 Indr  138
 Indrani  139
 Mara  189
 Marutgana  191
 Meghanada  194
 Nara  214
 Parjanya  243
 Prabhasa  251
 Prasannatara  252
 Pratyusa  252
 Prthivi  254
 Rbhus  264
 Rudra  267
 Sakra  271
 Sarama  275
 Sita  287
 Soma  291
 Vajrapani  335
 Vamana  336
 Vasu(s)  337
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Vijaya  341
 Indrani  139, 139
 Indukari  139, 272
 infants. See children
 Ing  97, 139, 356
 injustice  4
 Inkanyamba  139
 Inmar  139
 Inmutef  139
 Insitor  139
 inspiration  61, 198–199,
 204, 308
 Intal  139
 Intercidona  139
 Inti  140, 186
 intoxication. See wine
 Inuits
 Erkilek  93
 Igalilik  134
 Ignerssuak  134
 Immap Ukua  136
 Ka’cak  151
 Kiya’rnarak  161
 Nerrivik  218
 Nuli’rahak  227
 Sedna  279
 Silma Inua  285
 Tornarssuk  321
 Tunek  324–325
 Iord  140
 Ipalnemoani  140
 Ipy  140
 Iran  57, 213, 248. See also
 Persia
 Iraq. See also Babylon;
 Mesopotamia
 An (1)  18
 Dumuzi  82
 Ea  85
 Enki  89–90
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Hala  110
 Marduk  189–190
 Nanna (1)  212–213
 Nergal  218
 Ninurta  224
 Utu  330–331
 Ireland  ix. See also specific
 gods, e.g.: Sheela Na Gig
 Aengus  5–6
 Belenus  48
 Brigit  55
 Dagda  70–71
 Danu (1)  72
 Diancecht  77–78
 Gobniu  105
 Lug  178
 Morrigan  203–204
 Nuadu  226–227
 Tuatha de Danaan  324
 Iris  140
 Irmin  140
 Iroquois. See Native Ameri
cans
 irrigation  218
 Iruva  140
 Isa (1) (Hindu) 140
 Isa (2) (African)  140
 Isˇara  141
 Isdes  141
 Ishi-Kori-Dome  141
 Isimud  141
 Isis  141–142
 Anubis  22
 Apis  25
 Arensnuphis  28
 Ennead  91
 Geb  103
 Harpokrates  113
 Harsiese  114
 Heret-Kau  122
 Horus  128
 Mandulis  188
 Min  199
 Nephthys  217
 Nut  227
 Osiris  235, 236
 Renenutet  265
 Seth  281
 Sothis  292
 Isis knot. See ankh
 Isˇkur  3, 136, 137, 142, 212,
 304, 331, 359
 Islam  viii, 12–13
 Israel and Israelites  19, 34,
 41–42, 87–89. See also
 Judaism; Semitic gods and
 deities
 Issaki  142
 Istadevata  142
 Isˇtar  24, 34, 61, 142–143,
 270, 275
 Isˇtaran  143
 Isten  143
 Isˇum  143
 Isvara  143
 Itonde  143, 194
 Itzam Cab  143, 144
 Itzam Na  8, 64, 131, 143,
 143–144
 Itzcuintli  144
 Itzpapalotl  144
 Itzpapalotl-Itzcueye  144,
 144
 Itztapal Totec  144
 Itztli  144
 Iunones  144
 Iusaas  144
 Iuturna  145
 Ix Chebel Yax  64, 145
 Ix Chel  145, 145
 Ixcozauhqui  145
 Ix Kanan  134, 145
 Ixnextli  145
 Ixpuztec  145
 Ixquimilli-Itzlacoliuhqui  145
 Ixtab  145
 Ixtlilton  145
 Ix Zacal Nok  64, 68, 145
 Izanagi-No-Kami  13, 146,
 146, 199, 232, 238, 298,
 321, 323
 Izanami-No-Kami  111, 126,
 135, 146, 146, 156, 199,
 232, 238, 321
 Izquitecatl  146
 J
 Jabru  147
 jackal  22
 Jagannath  147, 293
 Jagaubis  147
 Jahwe. See Yhwh
 Jainism. See also specific gods,
 e.g. : Dvipakumara
 Acchupta  3
 Agnikumara  7
 Asurakumara  34–35
 Bala  44
 Bhavanavasi  51
 Buddhi  56
 Devananda  74
 Dhrti  76
 Kali (2)  153
 Manasa  187
 Manasi  187
 Manavi  187
 Nagaraja  210
 Narada  214
 Parsva  244
 Prajnapti  251
 Sarvastramahajvala
 277
 Sasanadevata  277
 Stanitakumara  293
 Suparnakumara  297
 Tripura  322
 Udadhikumara  327
 Vaimanika  333
 Vairotya  334
 Vayukumara  338
 Vidyutkumara  341
 Jakomba  147
 Jalinprabha  147
 Jambhala  148, 263, 327
 Janguli  148
 Janus  20, 148, 292
 Japan. See Shinto
 Jarri  148
 Jayakara  148
 Jayanta  139, 148
 Jayatara  148
 Jaya-Vijaya  149
 Jehovah  149
 Jerusalem  34
 jewelers  302
 Jnanadakini  149
 Jnanaparamita  149
 Jnanavasita  149
 Jok  149
 Jokinam  149
 Judaism  89, 355. See also
 Semitic gods and deities
 Jumis  149
 Juno  104, 149, 150, 191,
 199, 303, 345. See also
 Hera
 Junrojin  149–150, 283
 Jupiter  xi, 150
 Baal  42
 Bacchus  43
 Ceres  61
 Devapurohita  74
 Dolichenus  81
 Egeria  86
 Epimetheus  91
 Juno  149
 Maia  185
 Mars  191
 Mercurius  196
 Minerva  199, 200
 Poeninus  248
 Quirinus  260
 Semele  280
 Taranis  304
 Tarvos Trigaranos  304
 Victoria  340
 Vulcanus  345
 Zeus  359
Index 383
 justice  78, 145, 213, 217,
 263, 312
 Juventas  118, 150
 Jvaraharisvara  150
 Jyestha  150
 K
 Ka Tyeleo  151
 Kabeiroi  120, 151
 Kabrakan  151, 360
 Kabta  151
 Ka’cak  151
 Kacchapesvara  151
 Kadesˇ 151
 Kadru  151, 187, 280
 Kafir (Afghanistan). See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Dagan (3)
 Disani  79–80
 Immat  136
 Imra  136–137
 Indr  138
 Kshumai  164
 Lunang  179
 Mon  202–203
 Nirmali  224
 Nong  226
 Panao  241, 252
 Sanju  274
 Sudrem  294
 Zhiwud  360
 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami  125,
 152, 198
 Kahilan  152
 Kahukura  152, 266
 kaiak 325
 Kaikara  152
 kaiwhatu 267
 Kai Yum  152
 Kakaku  152
 kakashi 290
 Kakasya  152
 Kakka  152
 Kakupacat  152
 Kala  152
 Kala-Bhadra  152
 Kalacakra  152–153
 Kaladuti  153
 kalau 356
 Kalavikarnika  153
 Kali (1) (Hindu)  153
 Ankalamman  21
 Digambara  78
 Gramadevata  106
 Katyayani  158
 Laksmi  171
 Mahakali  182
 Maharatri  183
 Mariyamman  190
 Pidari  247
 Raudri  264
 Sakti  271
 Sitala(mata)  287
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Kali (2) (Jain)  153
 Kaligni-Rudra  153
 Kalika  153
 Kalisia  154
 Kaliya  154, 164
 Kalki(n)  154, 185, 342
 Kalligeneia  154
 kalpa (day)  54
 Kaltesh  154
 Kalunga  154, 207
 Kama(deva)  153, 154–155,
 189, 251, 253, 263, 268,
 272
 Kamado-No-Kami  155
 Kama-Gami  155
 Kamaksi  155
 Kamala  155, 183, 239
 Kamalasana  54, 155
 Kamantakamurti  155
 Kami  155
 Hachiman  109
 Hi-Hiya-Hi  125
 Ho-Musubi-No-Kami
 127
 Ho-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
No-Kami  127
 Ishi-Kori-Dome  141
 Izanagi-No-Kami  146
 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 152
 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi
 156
 Kana-Yama-Biko-No
Kami  156
 Kana-Yama-Hime-No
Kami  156
 Kunado-No-Kami  167
 Michi-No-Kami  197
 Mika-Hiya-Hi  198
 Mi-Kura-Tana-No
Kami  198
 Munakata-No-Kami
 206
 Niha-Tsu-Hi-No
Kami  219
 Sukuna-Hikona  295
 Ta-No-Kami  303
 Tsuki-Yomi  323
 Waka-Hiru-Me  346
 Kami-Musubi-No-Kami  15,
 155
 Kamini  155
 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi  10,
 156
 Kamrusepa  156
 Kana-Yama-Biko-No-Kami
 156, 156
 Kana-Yama-Hime-No-Kami
 156, 156
 Kane  125, 156, 158, 164,
 177
 Kangalogba  156, 321
 Kankala(murti)  156, 343
 Kankar Mata  156
 Kantatman  75, 156
 Kanti  156
 Kapali  156
 Kapalini  157
 Karaikkal Ammaiyar  157
 Karai-Shin  157
 Karini  157
 Karkota  157
 karma 157, 343
 Karmavasita  157
 Karta  157
 Karttikeya  83, 157, 282,
 289, 339
 Karttiki  157, 157
 Kasˇku  157, 168
 Kasyapa  157
 Aditi  4
 Agni  7
 Danu (2)  72
 Diti  80
 Garuda  102
 Kadru  151
 Khasa  159
 Manasa  187
 Matara  192
 Rahu  261
 Sesa(naga)  280
 Vac  332
 Katagogia  79
 Katajalina  157–158
 Kataragama  158
 Katavul  158
 Katyayani  158
 Kauket  158, 159, 231
 Kaumari  158, 289
 Kaumudi  60, 158
 kausrabha (sacred stone)  343
 Kavra’nna  158
 Kazyoba  158
 Keawe  125, 158
 Kebechet  159
 Kek  158, 159, 231
 Kemosˇ 159
 Kere’tkun  159
 kerykeion (intertwined ser
pents)  123
 Kesava  159, 161
 Kesini  159
 Ketua  159, 229
 Khadir  159
 Khandoba  159, 197
 Khasa  159
 Khasaparna  160
 Khen-Ma  160, 160
 Khen-Pa  160
 Kherty  160
 Khipa  160
 Khnum  22, 81, 160, 277
 Khon-Ma  160
 Khons(u)  160, 207, 290
 Khyung-Gai mGo-Can  160
 Ki  18, 21, 90, 104, 161,
 161, 211
 Kianda  161
 Kibuka  161
 Kingras  162
 Kini’je  161
 Kinnar  161
 Kinyras  161
 Kirti  159, 161
 Kisˇar  18, 21, 161, 161, 170
 Kitanitowit  161
 kitchens  232
 Kiya’rnarak  161
 Klehanoai  161–162
 Klotho  37, 162, 170, 202
 Knights Templar  46
 Kojiki (Shinto text)  13–15,
 85, 268, 321, 328
 Kollapura-Mahalaksmi  162
 Kondos  162
 Kono-Hana-Sakuya-Hime
No-Kami  162
 Kore  61, 73, 101, 110, 162,
 246. See also Persephone
 Korravai  162
 Koryak. See Siberia
 Kotar  162
 Kotisri  162
 Koto-Shiro-Nushi  86, 162
 Kouretes  162, 359
 Kourotrophos  163
 Koyote  163
 Kratos  52, 163
 Krishna. See Krsna
 Kronos  163
 Aphrodite  24
 Ceres  61
 Hades  110
 Hera  121
 Hestia  124
 Ouranos  237
 Phanes  247
 Poseidon  250
 Rhea  266
 Titans  316
 Zeus  359
 Krsna  163–164
 Balakrsna  44
 Balarama  45
 Bhagavan  50
 Bhumidevi  51
 Cakra  58
 Chaitanya  62
 Devaki  74
384 Index
 Kun-Rig  167
 Laran  172
 Hari  113
 Jagannath  147
 Kaliya  154
 Kama(deva)  154
 Laksmi  171
 Mal  185
 Mayon  194
 Nappinnai  213
 Nara  214
 Nediyon  216
 Pradyumna  251
 Radha  261
 Rukmini  268
 Samba  272
 Satyabhama  278
 Subhadra  293
 Vasudeva  337
 Vatapattrasayin  338
 Visˇnu  342
 Vitthali  344
 Yama  353
 Krsodari  164
 Krttika(s)  164
 Ksama  164
 Ksantiparamita  164
 Ksetrapala  50, 164
 Kshumai  164
 Ksitigarbha  164
 Ku  156, 158, 164, 177
 Kuan Ti  63, 164–165, 175,
 176, 240
 Kuan Yin  131, 165, 194,
 273
 Kubaba  118, 165
 Kubera  52, 113, 148, 166,
 199
 Kubjika  166
 Kubuddhi  166
 Kucumatz  166
 kudurru 221
 Kuei Shing  166
 Kuju  166
 Kuku-Ki-Waka-Muro
Tsuna-Ne-No-Kami  166
 Kukulcan  166, 166
 Kuku-Toshi-No-Kami  166
 Kuladevata  166, 166
 Kuladevi  166
 Kulika  167
 Kulisankusa  167
 Kulisesvari  167
 Kulla  167
 kumara 51, 267
 Kumarbi  118, 167
 Kumari  82, 167
 kumbhandas (group of
 demons)  342
 Kumokums  167
 Kunado-No-Kami  167
 Kundalini  167
 Ku’nkunxuliga  167
 Kuntu bXan Po  168
 Kura-Okami-No-Kami  168
 Kurdaligon  168
 Kurma(vatara)  151, 168,
 342
 Kurukulla  168
 Kus  168
 Kushi-Dama-Nigi-Haya-Hi
 168
 Kushi-Iwa-Mado-No
Mikoto  168
 Kusˇuh  157, 168
 Kutji  168
 Kutkhu  168–169, 284, 285,
 317
 Ku’urkil  169, 309
 Kvasir  169
 Kwannon  39, 169
 Kwoth  169
 Kybele  38, 47, 58, 61, 79,
 111, 169, 212, 235, 325
 Kyknos  28
 Kyumbe  169
 L
 Lachesis  37, 162, 170, 202
 Lactanus  170
 Laghusyamala  170
 Lahamu  21, 170, 170
 Lahar  33, 170, 271
 Lahmu  170, 170
 Laima  170
 Laka  125, 170–171
 lakes  149, 205
 Laksmana  171, 278
 Laksmi  171
 Durga  83
 Jyestha  150
 Kama(deva)  154
 Maha-Sarasvati  183
 Maya(devi)  193
 Narasinha  214
 Padma  239
 Radha  261
 Riddhi  266
 Rukmini  268
 Sarasvati  276
 Sati  277
 Sita  287
 Sri(devi)  293
 Surya (1)  297
 Vaisnavi  334
 Visˇnu  343
 Lalaia’il  171
 Lamaria  171
 Lan Cai-He  41, 171–172
 Lao-Tsze  172
 Lara. See Larunda
 Mirsa  200
 Narisah  214
 Nusˇku  227
 Ratnolka  264
 gShen-Lha-Odkhar
 283
 Taditkara  300
 Lares  2, 172, 172
 Lar Familiaris  172
 Larunda  172
 Lasya  172, 172
 Latipan  172
 Lau  172
 Lauka Mate  172
 Laukika-Devatas  172
 Laverna  172
 law and order  75, 89, 120.
 See also justice
 learning. See also wisdom
 Acchupta  3
 Cakresvari  58
 Gandhari  101
 Kali (2)  153
 Kulisankusa  167
 Mahakali  182
 Manasi  187
 Manavi  187
 Narada  214
 Prajapati  251
 Prajnapti  251
 Sarvastramahajvala
 277
 Vairotya  334
 Lebanon  19, 34, 41–42,
 87–88
 Lebien-Pogil  173
 Legba  173
 The Legend of Baal and Anat
 32, 41
 Lei Kung  173, 314, 357
 Lelwani  173
 Lendix-Tcux  173
 Lenus  173
 Lesa  173–174, 175
 Leto  25, 30, 174, 359
 Leukothea  43, 174
 Lha  174
 Lha-Mo  174
 Lianja  143, 174
 Libanza  174–175, 226
 Liber  43, 78, 175
 Libera  175, 175
 Liberalitas  175
 Libertas  175
 Líbitina  175
 libraries  279, 281
 Lietna’irgin  175
 life  360
 light. See also dawn; specific
 gods, e.g.: Ningiszida
 Aether  7
 Ahura Mazda  9–10
 Belenus  48
 Boora Pennu  53
 Hine-Ata-Uira  126
 Hyperion  132
 Kane  156
 Tane(mahuta)  302
 lightning  138, 157, 314. See
 also thunder
 Lilith  175
 Liluri  175
 Linga  175
 linga 271, 288
 lions  198, 228
 Lir  5, 175
 Lisa  105, 173, 174, 175,
 193, 290
 literature. See also writing
 Aksayajnana-Karmanda
 11
 Anantamukhi  19
 Kuei Shing  166
 Mari (1) (Buddhist)
 190
 Prajnavardhani  251
 Ratnolka  264
 Sarvabuddhadharma
Kosavati  276
 Sarvakarmavaranavi
sodhani  276
 Shong-Kui  284
 Sumati  296
 Weng Shiang  347
 Li Tie-guai  41, 174
 Liu Pei  63, 175–176
 Llew Llaw Gyffes  28, 176
 Loa  176
 Loba  176
 Locana  11, 176
 Lo’cin-coro’mo  176
 Lo’cin-po’gil  173, 176
 Lodur  176
 logical analysis  30
 Logos  176, 253
 Lokapala  176
 Lokesvara  176
 Loki  45, 119, 123, 127, 133,
 176–177, 285, 289
 Loko  40, 177
 Lomo  177, 229
 Lone  164
 longevity  98, 129, 284, 323
 Lono  156, 158, 177, 323
 lot-casting  170
 Lothur  177
 love (including sexual love)
 Amor  17
 Aphrodite  24
 Astarte  34
 Eros  93
Freyja  97
 Mahaprabhu  183
 Index 385
 Hathor  115–116
 Kama(deva)  154–155
 Manmatha  189
 Pradyumna  251
 Prende  252
 Radha  261
 Rati  263
 Turan  325
 Venus  339
 Lu Dong-bin  41, 178
 Lu Pan  177–178
 Lubanga  178
 Lubangala  178
 Lucina  59, 60, 178
 luck  49, 71, 85–86, 98–99,
 149–150, 162, 283, 292.
 See also fortune
 Lug  78, 176, 178, 300, 324
 Lugal-Irra  178, 196
 Lulal  178
 Luna  179, 279
 Lunang  179
 Lupercus  179
 M
 Ma  160, 180
 Maat  180
 Mabinogion texts  28, 72, 81
 Mabon  180
 Macha  180–181, 203
 Madhukara  181
 Maeve  181, 203
 Mafdet  181
 Magha  181
 magic  221
 magistrates  242
 Mah  181
 Mahabala  181
 Mahabharata ix, 29, 51, 54,
 75, 82, 101, 163, 262, 343,
 345
 Mahabja  181
 Mahacinatara  181
 Mahadeva  181
 Maha-Ganapati  56, 181,
 284
 Mahakala  50, 71, 106, 107,
 182, 182
 Mahakali  182
 Mahakapi  182
 Mahamanasika  182
 Mahamantranusarini  182
 Mahamataras  182
 Mahamayuri  182
 Mahanaga  19, 157, 167,
 181, 182, 239, 274, 301
 Mahapadma  182
 Mahaparinirvanamurti  182
 Mandanu  187
 Mandhata  187
 Mandulis  187–188
 Manes  188
 Mangala  188
 Mani  188
 Manidhara  188
 Manito  188, 188
 Manitu  188
 Manjughosa  188
 Mahapratisara  183, 263
 Mahapratyangira  183
 maharajas 52
 Maharaksa  182, 183, 183
 Maharatri  155, 183
 Mahasahaspramardani  183,
 334
 Maha-Sarasvati  183
 Mahasitavati  183
 Mahasri-Tars  183
 Mahasthama(prapta)  183
 Mahavidya  43, 50, 52, 65,
 76, 153, 155, 184, 290,
 304
 Mahayasa  184
 Maheo  184
 Mahes  184
 Mahesvari  184
 Mahi  51, 184, 276
 Mahisa  83, 184, 184
 Mahisasuramardini  59, 184,
 184
 Mahodadhi  184
 Mahrem  184, 184
 Mahuikez  184
 Maia  122, 185, 196, 359
 Maitreya  52, 154, 185, 198
 maize. See corn
 Majas Gars  185
 Maju  185, 190
 Make Make  185
 Ma Kiela  180
 Mal  185
 Mala  172, 185
 Malakbel  185
 Malamanganga’e  185–186
 Malamangangaifo  185, 186
 malevolent deities. See evil
 deities
 Malhal Mata  186
 Malik  186
 Mam  186
 Mama. See Mami
 Mamaki  186, 263
 Mama-Kilya  140, 186
 Mama Qoca  186
 Mami  186, 221
 Mamitu  186
 Mamlambo  187
 Manannan (Mac Lir)  175,
 187, 187
 Manasa  187, 210
 Manasi  187
 Manat  187
 Manavi  187
 Manawat  187
 Manawyddan  187
 sMan-Bla  1, 33, 50, 76,
 187, 285, 286, 297, 299
 Mandah  187
 Manjusri  11, 16, 26, 52, 75,
 188, 188–189, 332
 Manmatha  189
 Manohel-Tohel  189
 mantra(s)
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15
 Amoghasiddhi  16
 bija 332
 HRIH  15
 HUM  11, 16
 Mahamantranusarini
 182
 Mahamayuri  182
 Mahapratisara  183
 Maharaksa  183
 Maitreya  185
 Mamaki  186
 Ratnasambhava  263
 TAM  31
 Vairocana  334
 Manu  189, 193, 252, 297,
 344
 Manungal  52, 189
 manusibuddhas 50, 185
 Maori. See Polynesia
 Maponos  189
 Mara  189, 329
 mar (agricultural tool)  190
 Marama  189
 Maramalik  189
 Maras 124
 mardi 317
 Marduk  26, 31, 33, 49, 71,
 85, 90, 189–190, 209, 314,
 358
 Mari (1) (Buddhist)  185,
 190
 Mari (2) (Basque)  190
 Mari Mai  190
 Marici  117, 190, 321, 332,
 334, 337
 mariners  95, 216, 249–250,
 286, 315. See also ships
 Mariyamman  190, 190
 Marnas  190–191
 marriage  132, 141, 329
 Mars  191
 Belatucadros  48
 Cariociecus  60
 Harmonia  113
 Juno  149
 Jupiter  150
 Mangala  188
 Mullo  206
 Nemetona  217
 Ocelus  230
 Quirinus  260
 Rigisamus  266
 Teutates  311
 Martu  18, 191
 Maru  191, 267
 Marutgana  191
 Mata  191, 256
 Matara  101, 113, 139, 158,
 184, 192, 215, 334, 336
 Matarisvan  192
 Mater Matuta  192
 Matlalcueye  192
 Matres  81, 111, 144, 192
 Matsuo  192
 Matsya  193, 342
 Maturaiviran  193
 Maui  126, 193
 Mawu  173, 193, 290
 Maya(devi)  56, 193, 251,
 294
 Mayahuel  193
 Mayajalakrama-Kurukulla
 193
 Mayans  ix, xi. See also Popol
 Vuh; specific gods, e.g.: Ah
 Chun Caan
 Acan  2
 Ac Yanto  2
 Ah Bolon Dz’acab  7–8
 Ah Cancun  8
 Bacabs  43
 Chac  62
 Chac Uayab Xoc  62
 Chamer  63
 Chaob  64
 Chiccan  65
 Cit Chac Coh  66
 Cizin  67
 Cum Hau  69
 E Alom  85
 E Quaholom  85
 Ek Chuah  87
 Gukumatz  107
 Hahana Ku  110
 Hunab Ku  131
 Hunapu  131
 Hunhau  131
 Hun Hunapu  131
 Huracan  131
 Ih P’en  134
 Ikal Ahau  134
 Itzam Na  143–144
 Ix Chebel Yax  145
 Ix Chel  145
 Ix Kanan  145
386 Index
 Tate Hautse Kupuri
 Ix Zacal Nok  145
 Ixtab  145
 Kabrakan  151
 Kaikara  152
 Kucumatz  166
 Kukulcan  166
 Mam  186
 Manohel-Tohel  189
 Menzabac  196
 Oxlahun Ti Ku  237
 Poxlom  250–251
 Totilma’il  321
 Tzultacah  325–326
 Yum Cimil  357
 Yum Kaax  357
 Zipakna  360
 Zotz  360
 Mayin  194
 Mayon  194
 Mazda  337
 Ma-zu  194
 Mbomba  194
 Mbombe  194
 Mbongo  194
 Mbotumbo  194
 meadows  68, 133
 measurement  321
 Medeine  194
 Medha  194
 medical divination  310
 medicine  350. See also
 physician deities
 medicine buddha 187
 meditation buddha. See Bod
hisattva; Dhyanibuddha
 Meditrina  194
 Meghanada  194
 Mehen  194
 Meher  194–195
 Mehet-Weret  195
 melissai (bees)  111
 Mellonia  195
 Melqart  94, 195, 198
 Me’mdeye-Eci’e  195
 memory  201
 Men  195
 Men Ascaenus  195
 Men Shen  195
 Mena  102, 125, 195
 menat ‘necklaces”  116
 Menechen  196
 Meness  196, 278
 Menulis  196
 Menzabac  110, 196
 merchants  87, 352
 mercredi (Wednesday)  348
 Mercurius  12, 196
 Meretseger  196
 meriah rituals  49, 53, 304
 Mes An Du  196
 Mes Lam Taea  178, 196
 Mesoamerica. See Aztecs;
 Mayans; Mexico
 Mesopotamia  viii. See also
 Babylon; Sumer; specific
 gods, e.g.: Enkimdu
 A-a  1
 Adad  3
 An (1)  18
 Antu  21
 Anu (1)  21–22
 Aphrodite  24
 Dagan (1)  70
 Dumuzi  82
 Ea  85
 Enki  89–90
 Enlil  90
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Gerra  104
 Gibil  104
 Gula  107
 Hendursaga  120
 Ilabrat  135
 Im  136
 Inana  137–138
 Isˇara  141
 Isimud  141
 Isˇkur  142
 Isˇtar  142–143
 Kabta  151
 Kisˇar  161
 Kulla  167
 Kus  168
 Lahamu  170
 Lahar  170
 Lahmu  170
 Lilith  175
 Mami  186
 Mamitu  186
 Mandanu  187
 Marduk  189–190
 Mes Lam Taea  196
 Musdamma  207
 Nabu  209–210
 Nammu  211
 Namtar  212
 Nanaja  212
 Nanna (1)  212–213
 Nansˇe  213
 Nergal  218
 Ninegal  220
 Ningal  220–221
 Ningikuga  221
 Ningirama  221
 Ningiszida  221
 Ninhursaga  221–222
 Nin-Ildu  222
 Nin-Imma  222
 Nin’insinna  222
 Ninkarnunna  222
 Ninlil  222–223
 Ninmah  223
 305
 Ninsˇubur  223
 Ninsun(a)  223
 Ninurta  224
 Nissaba  225
 Nusˇku  227
 Papsukkal  242–243
 S
 ˇakka(n)  271
 S
 ˇala  271
 S
 ˇamasˇ 272
 S
 ˇarra Itu  276
 Sin  285
 Sirara  286
 Sirsir  286
 Sirtur  286–287
 S
 ˇulman(u)  295–296
 S
 ˇul-pa-e  296
 S
 ˇulsaga  296
 Tiamat  314
 Ua-Ildak  327
 Uttu (vegetation and
 weaving)  330
 Utu (sunlight)  330–331
 Wer  347–348
 Zababa  358
 Zarpanitu(m)  358
 messengers. See also specific
 gods, e.g.: Ninsˇubur
 Hahana Ku  110
 Hermes  122–123
 Hermod  123
 Iris  140
 Isimud  141
 Mercurius  196
 Mlentengamunye  201
 Musisi  207
 Namtar  212
 Papsukkal  242–243
 Sasanadevata  277
 Sogblen  290
 Yamaduti  353
 Zhiwud  360
 Messor  197
 metalwork. See black
smithing
 Meter  197
 Metis  37, 197, 232, 359
 metope 37
 Metsaka  197, 319
 Metztli  197
 Mexico  ix. See also Aztecs;
 Mayans
 Chalchiuhtlicue  62–63
 Coatlicue  67
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Metsaka  197
 Pitao Cozobi  248
 Quetzalcoatl  259
 Tajin  301
 Takotsi Nakawe  301
 Tamats Palike
 Tamoyeke  302
 Tate Naaliwahi  305
 Tate Oteganaka  305
 Tate Rapawiyema  305
 Tate Velika Vimali
 305
 Tatosi  305
 Tayau  307
 Tayau Sakaimoka  307
 Tezcatlipoca  311–312
 Tlaloc  318
 Tokakami  319
 Xipe Totec  350
 Mexitli  197
 Mhalsa  159, 197
 Micapetlacoli  197
 Michi-No-Kami  167, 197
 Mictecacihuatl  66, 197,
 197, 318
 Mictlantecuhtli  197–198
 Acolmiztli  3
 Chalmecacihuilt  63
 Chalmecatl  63
 Cipactli  66
 Micapetlacoli  197
 Mictecacihuatl  197
 Nextepehua  219
 Tlalehitonatiuh  317
 Tzontemoc  325
 Yacahuiztli  352
 Yoaltecuhtf  356
 Midir  198
 midwives  277, 310
 Mihos  47, 198
 Mika-Hiya-Hi  198
 Mikal  198
 Mi-Kura-Tana-No-Kami
 198
 military prowess  342
 Milkastart  198
 Milkom  198
 Mi-Lo Fo  198
 milpas (smallholdings)  44,
 62
 Mimir  198–199
 Min  199, 258
 Minaksi  199
 Minato-No-Kami  14, 199
 miners  156
 Minerva  37, 55, 150,
 199–200, 295, 332, 345.
 See also Athena; Pallas
 Ming Dynasty  209
 Minos  28, 200, 312, 360
 Mirsa  200
 misfortune  33, 150, 283
 mist  355
 mistletoe  45, 127
 Mithra  9, 194, 200, 200,
 201
Owiot  237
 Index 387
 Mithras  9, 200, 201
 Miti  201, 260, 319
 Mi-Toshi-No-Kami  201
 Mitra  201
 Mi-Wi-No-Kami  201
 Mixcoatl-Camaxtli  11, 15,
 201, 201, 350
 Mizu-Ha-No-Me  201, 295
 Mkulumncandi  201, 201
 Mlentengamunye  201
 Mlk-Amuklos  201
 Mnemosyne  201, 237
 moana (oceans)  302
 Moccus  201
 Modimo  202
 modius (turban)  17
 Modron  180, 202, 266
 Mogounos  202
 Mohawk Indians. See Native
 Americans
 Mohini  202
 Moirai  37, 162, 170, 202
 moisture  308
 Mokos  202
 Molek  202
 Moma  202
 Mombo Wa Ndhlopfu  202
 Mon  81, 164, 202–203
 Moneta  203
 monkeys  112, 294, 296–297
 monstrous deities  351
 Montu  203, 265
 moon. See also specific gods,
 e.g. : Mani
 Arawa  26
 Avatea  39–40
 Diana  77
 Hekate  119
 Hilal  125
 Hina  125
 Hina-Uri  126
 Ix Chel  145
 Kasˇku  157
 Khon-Ma  160
 Khons(u)  160
 Klehanoai  161–162
 Kusˇuh  168
 Luna  179
 Mah  181
 Mama-Kilya  186
 Marama  189
 Mawu  193
 Men  195
 Meness  196
 Menulis  196
 Metsaka  197
 Nanna (1)  212–213
 Napir  213
 Nikkal  220
 Nsongo  226
 Nze  229
 Mulliltu  90, 206, 208
 Mullo  206
 Pradhana  251
 Prthivi  254
 Raudri  264
 Rakib-El  262
 Sahar  270
 Selardi  279
 Selene  279
 Si  284
 Sin  285
 Sina  285
 Ta’lab  301
 Tanit  303
 Tecciztecatl  307–308
 Thoth  313–314
 Tsuki-Yomi  323
 Wadd  346
 Ya’china’ut  352
 Yah  352
 Mor  203
 morality  147
 moringa tree  255
 Morpheus  203, 291
 Morrigan  43, 46, 71, 93,
 180, 202, 203–204, 216
 Mors  204, 291
 Morta  73, 204, 226, 243
 mortuary. See funerary
 Morva  204
 Morvran  204
 Mot  19, 41, 42, 204–205
 mother deities. See also Vari
Ma-Te-Takere; specific gods,
 e.g.: Acca Larentia
 Aditi  4
 Ammavaru  16
 Artemis  30
 Asˇerah  31–32
 Ceres  61
 Coatlicue  67
 Demeter  73
 Disani  79–80
 Frigg  98
 Hathor  115–116
 Hebat  117–118
 Isis  142–143
 Ix Chebel Yax  145
 Kankar Mata  156
 Kundalini  167
 Kybele  169
 Leto  174
 Mami  186
 Mari (2)  190
 Mata  191
 Matara  192
 Matres  192
 Maya(devi)  193
 Mbombe  194
 Meter  197
 Ninhursaga  221–222
 Ninmah  223
 Parvati  244
 Pattinidevi  244
 Pinikirz  248
 San Chou Niang
 Niang  273
 Sankari  274
 Santa  274
 Santoshí Mata  274
 Sao Ching Niang
 Niang  274
 Sati  277
 Semele  279–280
 Sheela Na Gig  283
 Si’duku  284
 Tripura  322
 Tzu Sun Niangniang
 325
 Vaisnavi  334
 Varaha  336
 Yami  353
 Yen Kuang Niang
 Niang  354
 Yogesvari  356
 mountains
 Adrastea  4–5
 Amurru  18
 Apo  25
 Hara-Yama-Tsu-Mi
 112
 Himavan  125
 Kono-Hana-Sakuya
Hime-No-Kami  162
 Liluri  175
 Mena  195
 Oreades  234
 O-Yama-Tsu-Mi  238
 Poeninus  248
 Quzah  260
 Tork  320
 Uslo  330
 Vindhya  342
 Vosegus  344
 Xaya Iccita  350
 Yama-No-Kami  353
 Moyocoyani  205
 Mratna’irgin  205
 Mrgasiras  205
 Muati  205
 dMu-bDud Kam-Po Sa-Zan
 205
 Mucalinda  205
 Mugasa  205
 Mugizi  205
 Mu Gong  205
 Muhammad  13
 Muhingo  205
 Mujaji  205
 Mukasa  161, 206
 Mula  206
 mule  206
 Mulindwa  206
 Munakata-No-Kami  206
 Mungan Ngour  206
 Mungu  206
 Munisvara  206
 Munjem Malik  136,
 206–207
 Muntu Walunga (the com
plete person)  228
 Munume  207
 Muraja  207
 Murukan  162, 207, 241
 Musdamma  207
 Muses  25
 music  134, 152, 207, 342
 Musisi  154, 207
 Muso Koroni  207
 Mut  14, 160, 207, 270, 349
 Mutinus  207
 Muttalamman  208
 Mycenaean  86–87
 Mylitta  208
 Myoken-Bodhisattva  208
 Myrrha  4, 208
 N
 Nabataean  12–13
 Nabu  205, 209–210, 216,
 304, 325
 Na Cha  209
 Na Ngutu  209
 Na tri dee dana (three gods
 of skill)  105
 Na’chitna’irgin  210, 349
 Nachunde  210
 Nag Hammadi codices  27,
 248, 269, 291, 292
 Nagabhavanavasi  51
 nagadevas 182, 274
 Nagakumara  210
 Nagaraja  210
 nagas (snake-like demons)
 102, 280
 Nagini  210
 Nagual  210
 Nahi  210
 Nahui Ehecatl  210
 Nahui Ollin  210
 Nai  32, 210
 Naiades  210–211
 Naigameya  211, 289
 Na’ininen  211
 Nai-No-Kami  211
 Nainuema  211
 Nairamata  123, 124, 211
 Naksatra(s)  211
 Abhijit  1
 Anuradha  23
388 Index
 Narasinhi  214
 Ardra  27
 Aslesa(s)  33
 Asvayujau  35
 Bharani  50
 Candra  60
 Citra  67
 Dhanistha  75
 Hasta  114
 Jyestha  150
 Krttika(s)  164
 Magha  181
 Mrgasiras  205
 Mula  206
 Punarvasu  256
 Purvabhadrapada  256
 Purvaphalguni  256
 Purvasadha  256
 Pusya  257
 Revati  266
 Rohini  266
 Satabhisa  277
 Sravana  292
 Sravistha  292
 Svati  299
 Uttarabhadrapada  330
 Uttarasadha  330
 Namasangiti  211, 334
 Nammu  18, 89, 211, 221
 Namtar  212
 Nana  38, 212, 273
 Nanabozho  188, 212
 Nanahuatl  210, 212, 307
 Nanaja  212
 Nandi(n)  212, 288
 Nang Lha  212
 nanjil (plough)  272
 Nanna (1) (Mesopotamian)
 212–213
 Balder  45
 Enlil  90
 Forseti  97
 Hoder  127
 Inana  137
 Ningal  220
 Sin  285
 Utu  331
 Nanna (2) (Nordic)  213
 Na’nqa-ka’le  201, 213
 Nansˇe  213, 220
 Nan-Sgrub  213
 Nantosuelta  213, 294
 Napaeae  213
 Napir  213
 Nappatecuhtli  213
 Nappinnai  213
 Nara  29, 113, 213–214
 Narada  157, 214, 343
 Naradatta  214
 Nara (sacred water)  343
 Narasinha  214, 214, 333,
 336
 Narayana  4, 113, 156, 171,
 214, 214
 Nareu  214
 Narisah  214
 Narkissos  214–215
 Nataraja  215, 288
 Natha  215
 national god  41–42
 Native Americans. See also
 Bella Coola Indians; Inuits;
 Navaho
 Agu’gux  7
 Anaulikutsai’x  19
 Awonawilona  40
 Gunnodoyak  107
 Haili’laj  110
 Hi’lina  125
 Kitanitowit  161
 Koyote  163
 Kumokums  167
 Manito  188
 Manitu  188
 Nanabozho  212
 O’meal  233
 Owiot  237
 Qa’wadiliquala  258
 Sga’na  282
 Sins Sga’nagwai  286
 Ta’ngwanla’na  303
 Tate  304
 Tawa  306
 Ta’xet  307
 Teharon(hiawagon)
 308
 Tewi’xilak  311
 Tia  314
 Tirawa  316
 Tsa’qamae  323
 Wakan Tanka
 346–347
 Wakonda  347
 Whope  348
 Wi  348
 Windigo  348
 Xil Sga’nagwai  350
 Naunet  215, 231
 Navadurga(s)  59, 60, 215,
 251, 268, 327
 Navaho. See also specific gods,
 e.g. : Hastehogan
 Estsanatlehi  94
 Hastsbaka  114
 Hastsebaad  114
 Hastseltsi  114
 Hastseoltoi  115
 Hastseyalti  115
 Hastsezini  115
 Hatdastsisi  115
 Klehanoai  161–162
 Nayenezgani  215
 Nestor Chronicle 65
 Nesu  219
 Nethuns  219
 Neti  219
 Nextepehua  219
 Ngai  219
 Ngunuwo  219
 Ni  219
 Niamye  219
 night  264
 Tienoltsodi  315
 Tobadzistsini  319
 Tsohanoai  323
 Yolkai Estan  356
 Navasakti(s)  215
 Brahmani  54
 Camunda  59
 Ellaman  88
 Indrani  139
 Karttiki  157
 Mahesvari  184
 Mariyamman  190
 Matara  192
 Narasinhi  214
 Pidari  247
 Pradhana  251
 Puranai  256
 Raudri  264
 Varahi  337
 Nayenezgani  94, 115, 215,
 319, 323
 Ndaula  215
 Ndjambi  215
 Nebethetpet  215
 Nebo  210, 216
 Nediyon  216
 Nefertiti  36
 Nefertum  216, 255, 270,
 346
 Negun  216
 Nehalennia  216
 Nehebu-Kau  216, 280
 Neit  216
 Neith  14, 216–217, 289
 Nekhbet  217, 346
 Nekmet Awai  217
 Nemausius  217
 Nemesis  119, 217, 312
 Nemetona  217
 Ne’nenkicex  217
 Neper  217, 265
 Nephthys  22, 91, 141,
 217–218, 227, 235, 281
 Neptunus  218, 219
 Nereides  218, 218
 Nereus  17, 81, 218, 249,
 313
 Nergal  218
 Birdu  52
 Dur  82
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Erra  93
 Gerra  104
 Mamitu  186
 Melqart  195
 Mes Lam Taea  196
 Nergal and Eresˇkigal 85
 Ninazu  220
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Nerrivik  218
 Nerthus  218–219
 Niha-Tsu-Hi-No-Kami  219
 Nihongi (Shinto text)  14, 15,
 85, 225, 268
 Nike  219–220, 293
 Nikkal  220, 285
 Niladanda  220
 Niladevi  220
 Nilalohita  220
 Nin Ezen (La)  220
 Nin Mar Ki  220
 Nin Me En  220. See also
 Ninmena
 Nin Ur  220
 Ninazu  92, 220, 221
 Nindara  220
 Nindub  220
 Ninegal  220
 Ningal  212, 220–221, 285
 Ningikuga  220, 221
 Ningilin  221
 Ningirama  221
 Ningirsu  221
 Ningiszida  221
 Ninhursaga  48, 89, 116,
 186, 211, 221, 221–222,
 258, 296, 330
 Ninigi (Prince)  99, 141,
 162, 222, 301
 Nin-Ildu  222
 Nin-Imma  222
 Nin-imma  89
 Nin’insinna  107, 222, 239,
 329
 Ninkarnunna  222
 Ninkigal  222
 Ninkurra  89, 222, 330
 Ninlil  90, 206, 218, 220,
 222–223, 227, 331
 Ninmah  89, 221, 222, 223
 Ninmena  223
 Ninni  223
 Nin-S ˇar  89, 223, 330
 Ninsikil  223
 Ninsˇubur  137, 223, 243
 Ninsun(a)  223, 287
 Ninsˇusˇinak  223
 Nintinugga  107, 223
 Nintu  221, 223–224
 Ninurta  107, 121, 142, 220,
 222, 224, 242
 Nirmali  224
Nuli’rahak  227
 Ometecuhtli  233
 Index 389
 Nirrti  79, 153, 224–225
 Niruktipratisamvit  225
 nirvana (eternal bliss)  123,
 182
 Nispannatara  225
 Nissaba  225
 Njord  97, 98, 219, 225,
 237, 285, 289, 336
 Nodotus  225
 Nomi-No-Sukune  225
 Nommo  225
 Nona  72, 204, 225–226,
 243
 Nong  226
 Nordic (Icelandic) gods  viii,
 ix. See also Vikings
 Aegir  5
 Aesir  6
 Balder  45
 Bragi  53
 Fjorgyn  96
 Freyja  97
 Freyr  97–98
 Frigg  98
 Heimdall  118–119
 Hermod  123
 Hoder  127
 Idunn  133
 Iord  140
 Loki  176–177
 Lothur  177
 Mani  188
 Mimir  198–199
 Nanna (2)  213
 Njord  225
 Othin  236–237
 Ran  263
 Sif  285
 Sigyn  285
 Sol (2)  291
 Thor  313
 Ull  328
 Vali (Icelandic)
 335–336
 Valtam  336
 Vanir  336
 Ve  338
 Vidar  340
 Vili  341
 Vor  344
 Yng  356
 Norsemen. See Nordic gods
 Nortia  226
 Nosenga  65, 226
 Notus  6, 226
 Nrtya  172, 226
 Nsongo  226
 Nu Kua  226, 283
 Nu Mus Da  226
 Nuadu  78, 226–227, 324
 Nudimmud  89, 227
 Loki  177
 Ometeotl  66, 67, 140, 233,
 233, 320
 Omichle  233, 250
 Onuava  233
 Nun  227, 231, 255
 Nunbarsegunu  227
 Nurelli  227
 nursery goddess  344
 Nusˇku  227
 Nut  91, 103, 141, 218,
 227–228, 235, 281, 308
 Nu’tenut  228
 Nyakaya  78, 228
 Nyame  228, 234
 gNyan  228
 Nyavirezi  228
 Nyx  7, 64, 92, 132, 204,
 228, 247, 291, 312
 Nzambi  228
 Nzapa  229
 Nze  229
 O
 oaths  93, 128, 186
 Obarator  230
 Obatala  230, 232
 Occator  230
 oceans. See sea gods and
 deities
 Ocelotl  230, 311
 Ocelus  230
 Odin. See Othin
 Oduduwa  10, 230–231
 Odyssey (Homer). See Illiad
 and Odyssey
 Ogdoad  14, 17, 116, 118,
 158, 159, 215, 231
 Ogiuwu  231
 Ogmius  231
 Ogun  231, 231
 Ohoroxtotil  231
 Oi  231
 Okeanides  73, 231–232,
 232, 246
 Okeanos  10, 81, 197, 232,
 232, 237, 293, 310, 313,
 316, 325
 Oki-Tsu-Hiko-No-Kami
 232
 Oko  232
 O-Kuni-Nushi-No-Mikoto
 232, 295
 Ola Bibi  232
 Old Testament  355
 Olodumare  93, 133, 230,
 232, 234, 235
 Olokun  232, 235
 Olorun. See Olodumare
 O-lwa-Dai-Myojin  231
 Omacatl  233
 Ome Tochtli  233
 O’meal  233
 Onuris  233–234
 Opo  234
 Opochtli  234
 Ops  234
 oracular deities  11, 25, 72,
 89
 Oraios  234
 orca (killer whale)  282
 orchards and gardens  249
 Orcus  110, 234
 Ordog  234
 Oreades  234
 Ori  234
 Origin of the World 27, 269,
 292
 Orisanla  234
 Oro  234
 Orotalt  234–235
 Orthia  235
 Orunmila  235
 Osande  235
 Osanobua  231, 232, 235
 Osiris  235–236
 Andjety  20
 Balder  45
 Ennead  91
 Geb  103
 Harendotes  113
 Haroeris  113
 Harsiese  114
 Hathor  115
 Herysˇaf  123, 124
 Hetepes-Sekhus  124
 Horus  128
 Isis  141, 142
 Khnum  160
 Neper  217
 Nephthys  217
 Nut  227
 Re  264
 Renenutet  265
 Sarapis  275
 Seth  281
 Ostara  236
 Ostaraki  236
 Osun  236
 Othin  236–237
 Aesir  6
 Balder  45
 Bor  53
 Bragi  53
 Buri  57
 Frigg  98
 Hermod  123
 Hoenir  127
 Iord  140
 Lothur  177
 Mimir  199
 Rind  266
 Thor  313
 Vali  335
 Vanir  336
 Ve  338
 Vidar  340
 Vili  341
 Wodan  348
 O-Toshi-No-Kami  201,
 237, 298
 Ouranos  7, 22, 24, 100, 133,
 163, 237, 266, 310, 312,
 316
 Owiot  237
 Oxlahun Ti Ku  237
 Oya  238, 282
 O-Yama-Tsu-Mi  162, 238
 Oyise (sacred wooden totem)
 62
 P
 Pa-bil-sag  239
 Paca-Mama  239
 Pachacamac  239
 Padma  193, 239
 Padmantaka  239
 Padmapani  16, 39, 239, 287
 Padmatara  239
 Padmosnisa  239
 Pahteeatl  240
 Paiawon  240
 Painal  240
 Pajainen  240
 Pajonn  240
 Pak Tai  130, 240
 Pakhet  240
 Palaemon  174, 241
 Palaniyantavan  241
 Pales  241
 Palestinian  34
 Pallas (Athene)  37, 241. See
 also Athena
 Pan  95, 241, 278
 Panao  241, 252
 Pancabrahma  241
 Pancamukha-Patradeva  
241
 Pancanana  241–242
 Pancaraksa  242
 pancaviras, cult of  272
 Pandara  15, 39, 242
 Paneu  242
 Pansahi Mata  242
 Pao Kung  242
 Papas  242
 papa (the earth)  242
390 Index
 Plutos (god of riches)  110,
 Papatuanuku  242
 Haumea  116
 Hine-Ahu-One  126
 Ranginui  263
 Ruamoko  267
 Salevao  271
 Tane(mahuta)  302
 Tawhirimatea  306
 Tiki  315
 Timaiti-Ngava
 Ringavari  315
 Timatekore  315
 Whiro  348
 Pap-nigin-gara  242
 Papsukkal  13, 242–243
 papyrus reeds  128
 Paramasva  243
 Paramita  44, 72, 77, 164,
 243, 263
 Parasurama  75, 243, 342
 Parcae  73, 204, 226, 243
 Parendi  243
 Pariacaca  243
 Pariskaravasita  243
 Parjanya  243, 254, 287
 Parna-Savari  243
 Parsva  244
 Partula  244
 Parvati  244
 Bhutamata  52
 Durga  83
 Ganesa  102
 Ganga  102
 Gauri  103
 Himavan  125
 Kama(deva)  155
 Kamantakamurti  155
 Katyayani  158
 Khandoba  159
 Manasa  187
 Mangala  188
 Mena  195
 Mhalsa  197
 Minaksi  199
 Raudri  264
 Sati  277
 Skanda  289
 Somaskanda  291
 Tripura  322
 Uma  328
 passage deities. See also spe
cific gods, e.g.: Vagitanus
 Adeona  3
 Alemona  12
 Ellaman  88
 Esu  94
 Janus  148
 Ksetrapala  164
 Men Shen  195
 Michi-No-Kami  197
 Patadharini  244
 248
 Portunus  249
 Rasnu  263
 Suleviae  295
 Terminus  309
 Thuremlin  314
 Wepwawet  347
 pastorial deities  48, 241
 Pasupati  244, 274
 Patadharini  244
 pathways  119
 patron goddess  117–118
 Pattinidevi  244
 Pavana  112, 245, 338
 Pax  245
 payasa (sweetened milk and
 rice)  21
 peace  87, 94, 177, 245, 
248
 Peitho  245
 Peju’lpe  173, 245
 Pekko  245
 Pele  116, 124, 245, 267
 Pellon Pekko  245, 245
 Pemba  207, 245
 Pen Annwen  245
 Penates  245–246
 peplos 37
 perception  284
 Perende  246
 Perkons  246
 Perkunas. See Perkons
 Perse  246
 Persephone  73, 92, 110,
 119, 123, 162, 246, 359.
 See also Kore
 Persia  viii. See also Zoroas
trianism; specific gods, e.g.:
 Geus Tasan
 Ahura Mazda  9–10
 Anaitis  18
 Apam Napat  23
 Dena  73
 Geus Urvan  104
 Mah  181
 Mithra  200
 Rasnu  263
 Verethragna  340
 Zurvan  360
 Persian Gulf  286
 persuasion  245
 Peru  68, 186, 284, 333, 
358
 Perun  246
 Peruwa  247
 petasus (cap)  196
 Phaedra (Plato)  124
 Phanebal  247
 Phanes  247
 pharaohs  17, 36, 39, 41,
 115–116, 124, 289–290
 Philistine  34
 Phoenician  4, 19, 24, 31–32,
 34, 195, 204–205
 Phorkys  247, 249
 Phosphoros  247
 Phrygian. See Turkey
 Phul Mata  247
 Phyi-Sgrub  247
 physician deities. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Piyusaha
rana
 Abhijnaraja  1
 Asklepios  32–33
 Asokottamasri  33
 Asvins  35
 Bhaisajyaguru  50
 Dharmakirtis
agaraghosa  76
 Diancecht  77–78
 Sikhin  285
 Sinhanada  286
 Suparikirtitanamasri
 297
 Survarnabhadravi
malaratnaprabhasa
 297
 Svaraghosaraja  299
 Picullus  247
 Picvu’cin  247
 Pidari  247
 Pidray  42, 247
 Pietas  248
 Pilumnus  248
 Pinikirz  248
 pipes of Pan  241
 Pistis  248, 291
 Pistis Sophia  291, 353, 360
 Pitao Cozobi  248
 Piyusaharana  248
 plague
 Ayiyanayaka  40
 Didi Thakrun  78
 Gibini  104
 Haili’laj  110
 Hardaul  112–113
 Hatthi  116
 Jarri  148
 Jvaraharisvara  150
 Mari Mai  190
 Mariyamman  190
 Muttalamman  208
 Ndaula  215
 Ola Bibi  232
 Poleramma  249
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Shankpana  283
 Plataea  121
 Plato  5, 124
 plenty  347
 plough  224, 340
 Pluto (god of underworld)
 61, 248, 253
 Poeninus  248
 poetry  8, 53, 231
 poison  110–111, 288
 Pokot and Suk tribes. See
 Africa
 Poleramma  249
 Pollux  120, 249, 249
 Poluknalai  249
 Polydeukes  17, 249
 Polynesia. See also Hawaiian
 gods; specific gods, e.g.: Atua
 I Kafika
 Anu-Mate  23
 Atea  35–36
 Atua Fafine  38
 Avatea  39–40
 Faivarongo  95
 Fe’e  96
 Hakea  110
 Hanui-o-rangi
 111–112
 Haumiatiketike
 116–117
 Hina  125
 Hina-Uri  126
 Hine-Ahu-One  126
 Hine-Ata-Uira  126
 Hine-Nui-Te-Po  126
 Ihoiho  134
 Ikatere  134–135
 Kahukura  152
 Ku  164
 Laka  170–171
 Mahuikez  184
 Make Make  185
 Malamanganga’e
 185–186
 Marama  189
 Maru  191
 Maui  193
 Opo  234
 Oro  234
 Pusi  256
 Quat  259
 Raka (2)  262
 Ranginui  263
 Rongomai  266–267
 Rongomatane  267
 Ruamoko  267
 Salevao  271
 Savea Si’uleo  278
 Sina  285
 Tana’ao  302
 Tane(mahuta)  302
 Tangaroa  302
 Tango  302–303
 Tawhaki  306
 Tawhirimatea  306
 Te Kore  307
Te Po  242, 307
 Index 391
 Te-Aka-la-Roe  307
 Te-Manava-Roa  307
 Te-Tanga-Engae  307
 Tifenua  315
 Tiki  315
 Timaiti-Ngava
 Ringavari  315
 Timatekore  315
 Tinirau  316
 Tino Taata  316
 Touia Fatuna  321
 Tu (2)  323–324
 Tumatauenga  324
 Whiro  348
 pomegranate  73
 Pomona  249, 340
 Pon  249
 Pontos  100, 218, 247, 249
 Popol Vuh (sacred Maya
 book)  85, 131
 Pore  249
 Portunus  249
 Poseidon  6, 33, 37, 91, 93,
 94, 218, 249–250, 322
 Posis Das  250
 potatoes  40
 Pothos  233, 250
 Potina  250
 pottery/potters  111, 155
 Poxlom  250–251
 Prabhakari  251
 Prabhasa  251, 343
 Pracanda  251
 Pradhana  251
 Pradipatara  251
 Pradyumna  75, 155, 156,
 251
 Prajapati  157, 251
 Prajna  251
 Prajnantaka  251
 Prajnaparamita  188, 251,
 334
 Prajnapti  251
 Prajnavardhani  251
 Prakde  252
 Pramudita  252
 Pranasakti  252
 Pranidhanaparamita  252
 Pranidhanavasita  252
 Prasannatara  252, 263
 Prasuti  71, 252, 277, 298
 Pratibhanakuta  252
 Pratibhanapratisamvit  252
 Pratisamvit  76, 252
 Pratyangira  252
 Pratyusa  252
 Prende  252
 Priapos  252–253, 253
 Priapus  253
 prima materia 313
 primordial deities and spir
its. See also specific gods, e.g.:
 Ogdoad
 Abzu  2
 Cipactli  66
 Danu (2)  72
 Eloai  89
 Erebos  92
 Hauhet  116
 Heh  118
 Herysˇaf  123–124
 Kangalogba  156
 Kasyapa  157
 Kauket  158
 Kek  159
 Kisˇar  161
 Ku  164
 Lahamu  170
 Lahmu  170
 Lono  177
 Manu  189
 Naunet  215
 Nun  227
 Ometeotl  233
 Omichle  233
 Oraios  234
 Ouranos  237
 Pothos  250
 Prajapati  251
 Pronoia  253
 Rahu  261
 Rhea  266
 Suddhodana  294
 T’ai Yi  300
 Taka-Mi-Musubi-No
Kami  301
 Te Kore  307
 Te Po  242, 307
 Timaiti-Ngava
 Ringavari  315
 Timatekore  315
 Tonacacihuatl  320
 Tonacatecuhtli  320
 Tu (2)  323–324
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Viraj  342
 Zemi(s)  358
 Priti  155, 253
 Priyadarsana  253
 Prometheus  91, 122, 133,
 253
 Promitor  253
 Pronoia  253
 Prose Edda 45, 53, 96, 98,
 103, 126, 127, 286, 317,
 336, 338, 341, 344
 Proserpina  35, 61, 246, 248,
 253. See also Persephone
 prosperity. See wealth
 protective deities. See
 guardian deities
 Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli
 317
 Tlaltecuhtli  318
 Tonacatecuhtli  320
 Quiahuitl  259–260
 Proteus  254. See also
 Glaukos; Nereus; 
Phorkys
 Providentia  254
 Proxumae  254
 Prsni  254
 Prthivi  7, 51, 76, 139, 254
 Prthu  254
 prudence  101–102
 Pryderi  108, 245, 254–255,
 257
 Ptah  24, 91, 255, 270, 275,
 290, 305
 Pu Ma  255
 Pudicita  255
 Pu’gu  255
 Pukkasi  256
 Punarvasu  256
 Punitavati  256
 Puranai  256
 Purandhi  256
 Puranic. See Hinduism
 Purusa  256
 Purvabhadrapada  256
 Purvaphalguni  256
 Purvasadha  256
 Pusan  256, 298
 Pusi  256
 Puspa  256
 Puspatara  256
 pustaka 188
 Pusti  51
 Pustí  256
 Pusya  257
 Puta  257
 Pwyll  26, 245, 254, 257,
 266
 Q
 Qaitakalnin  258
 Qamai’ts  258
 Qa’wadiliquala  258, 311
 Qaynan  258
 Qeskina’qu  258
 Qos  258
 Quadesˇ 258–259
 Quat  259
 Qudsu  259
 Quetzalcoatl  259
 Ce Acatl  61
 Chiconahuiehecatl  65
 E Alom  85
 E Quaholom  85
 Ehecatl  86
 Ehecatl-Quetzalcoatl
 86
 Gukumatz  107
 Tecciztecatl  308
 Tezcatlipoca  311
 Quikinn.a’qu  6, 168, 169,
 201, 213, 258, 260, 307,
 309, 319, 355
 Quinoa-Mama  260
 Quirinus  150, 260
 Qur’an  12, 13
 Quzah  260
 R
 racing  114
 Radha  163, 171, 261, 287
 Rahu  261
 Raijin  156, 157, 211,
 261–262, 268, 301
 rainbows  152, 178, 270
 rain gods and deities. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Tate
 Kyewimoka
 Aji-Shiki-Taka-Hiko
Ne  10
 Bagba  44
 Chac  62
 Chiccan  65
 Cocijo  68
 Col  68
 Ilat  135
 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi
 156
 Kura-Okami-No-Kami
 168
 Mujaji  205
 Parjanya  243
 Tajin  301
 Taka-Okami-No-Kami
 301
 Tate Hautse Kupuri
 305
 Tate Naaliwahi  305
 Tate Rapawiyema  
305
 Tlaloc  318
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton
 318
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli  319
 Tonenili  320
 Yauhqueme  354
 Yu Shih  356–357
 Rajamatangi  262
 Raka (1) (Hindu)  262
 Raka (2) (Polynesian)  262
 Rakib-El  262
 Raktalokesvara  262
 Rakta-Yamari  262
 Raluvimbha  262
392 Index
 Rama  45, 82, 112, 171, 261,
 262, 278, 287, 294, 342
 Ramayana epic  ix, 54, 75,
 82, 112, 262
 ram god  46, 116
 Ran  5, 263
 Rang  263
 Ranginui  23, 111, 242, 263,
 263
 Rasnu  263
 Rathayatra 147
 Rati  154, 263
 Ratnapani  263, 263
 Ratnaparamita  263
 Ratnasambhava  263–264
 Aparajita  24
 Balaparamita  44
 Danaparamita  72
 Dhyanaparamita  77
 Gundari-Myoo  107
 Jambhala  148
 Jnanaparamita  149
 Ksantiparamita  164
 Mahamantranusarini
 182
 Mahapratisara  183
 Mahasitavati  183
 Mamaki  186
 Paramita  243
 Prajnantaka  251
 Pranidhanaparamita
 252
 Prasannatara  252
 Ratnapani  263
 Ratnaparamita  263
 Silaparamita  285
 Ucchusma  327
 Upayaparamita  329
 Vajratara  335
 Vasudhara  338
 Viryaparamita  342
 Ratnolka  264
 Ratnosnisa  264
 Ratri  264
 Raudna  264
 Raudri  264
 Rauni  264
 Rbhus  139, 264
 Re  264–265
 Anat  19
 Anubis  22
 Anukis  22
 Aten  36
 Atum  39
 Bastet  47
 Hathor  116
 Herysˇaf  123, 124
 Hours  129
 Hu  129
 Kherty  160
 Mehen  194
 Nefertum  216
 Neith  217
 Osiris  235
 Sakhmet  270
 Seth  282
 S
 ˇu  293
 Tefnut  308
 Thoth  313
 Wepwawet  347
 reason  176
 Redarator  265
 reeds  128, 220–221
 Renenutet  217, 265, 279
 Reret. See Taweret
 Resˇep  26, 258
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Revanta  265, 297
 Revati  45, 266
 revenge  217
 Rg Veda
 Aditi  4
 Agni  7
 Apam Napat  23
 Asuras  35
 Brahma  54
 Deva  74
 Dharma  75
 Diti  80
 Dyaus Pitar  83
 Gayatri  103
 Hiranyagarbha  126
 Indra  139
 Nirrti  224
 Prsni  254
 Rbhus  264
 Sarama  275
 Sarasvati  275
 Sindhu  286
 Surya (1)  297
 Trayastrinsa  322
 Trita  322
 Uru’n Ajy Toyo’n  
329
 Vata  338
 Viraj  342
 Visˇnu  343
 Rhadamanthos  266, 312
 Rhea  61, 78, 110, 124, 149,
 163, 169, 237, 250, 266,
 316, 359
 Rheie. See Rhea
 Rhiannon  108, 187, 203,
 254, 257, 266
 rice  273
 riches. See wealth
 Riddhi  266
 Riddhivasita  266
 Rigisamus  266
 Rig Veda. See Rg Veda
 Rind  266, 335
 Ritona  266
 river gods and deities. See
 also specific gods, e.g.:
 Lunang
 Abnoba  2
 Akelos  10–11
 Anaulikutsai’x  19
 Asopos  33
 Boann  52
 Buk  56–57
 Condatis  68
 Enbilulu  89
 Faro  95
 Ganga  102
 Harpina  113
 Hermus  123
 Ho-Po  127
 Icauna  133
 Isa (2)  140
 Kakaku  152
 Mamlambo  187
 Mbongo  194
 Minato-No-Kami  199
 Osun  236
 Oya  238
 Ritona  266
 Sangarios  273
 Sequana  280
 Sindhu  286
 Souconna  292
 S
 ˇumugan  296
 Thetis  313
 Tiberinus  314
 rocks  271
 Rohini  45, 56, 74, 266, 337
 Roma  266
 Roman gods and deities  viii,
 ix, xi. See also Greco
Roman period; Romano
Celtic gods; specific gods,
 e.g.: Luna
 Adeona  3
 Ahura Mazda  9, 10
 Anubis  22
 Attis  38
 Baal  42
 Bacchus  43
 Bes  50
 Ceres  61
 Hephaistos  120–121
 Herakles  122
 Ifru  134
 Imporcitor  136
 Insitor  139
 Intercidona  139
 Iris  140
 Isis  141, 142
 Iuturna  145
 Janus  148
 Juno  149
 Jupiter  150
 Juventas  150
 Kybele  169
 Lares  172
 Lupercus  179
 Manes  188
 Mars  191
 Meditrina  194
 Mercurius  196
 Minerva  199–200
 Morta  204
 Neptunus  218
 Notus  226
 Obarator  230
 Occator  230
 Pales  241
 Pan  241
 Pax  245
 Penates  245–246
 Pomona  249
 Portunus  249
 Priapus  253
 Proserpina  253
 Providentia  254
 Puta  257
 Quirinus  260
 Saturnus  278
 Securita  279
 Sol (1)  290–291
 Sors  292
 Spes  292
 Terminus  309
 Tiberinus  314
 Unxia  329
 Venus  339
 Vesta  340
 Victoria  340
 Virtus  342
 Vulcanus  345
 Zephyrus  359
 Romano-Celtic gods  ix
 Abandinus  1
 Coventina  68–69
 Ialonus  133
 Icauna  133
 Matres  192
 Mullo  206
 Nehalennia  216
 Nemausius  217
 Ocelus  230
 Poeninus  248
 Rigisamus  266
 Ritona  266
 Rosmerta  267
 Rubanga  267
 Sequana  280
 Sirona  286
 Souconna  292
 Sucellos  294
 Suleviae  295
 Taranis  304
 Tarvos Trigaranos  304
 Vosegus  344
Index 393
 Romano-Iberians  280
 Romulus  191
 Rongomai  152, 266–267
 Rongomatane  152, 267
 Rosmerta  267
 Rsabha  139, 267
 Ruamoko  267, 267
 Rubanga  267
 Ruda  234, 267
 Rudiobus  267
 Rudra  267–268
 Aparajita  23
 Ekadasarudra  87
 Jayanta  148
 Kalacakra  153
 Kapali  156
 Mahadeva  181
 Marutgana  191
 Nilalohita  220
 Prasannatara  252
 Rahu  261
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Suresvara  297
 Svadha  298
 Vijaya  341
 Virupaksa  342
 Rudracandra  268
 Rudracarcika  268
 Rudrani  268
 Rudras 322
 Rugievit  268
 Ruhanga  268
 Rukmini  154, 171, 251, 261,
 268, 272
 Rumina  268
 Rundas  268
 Rupini  268
 Ryangombe  268
 Ryujin  262, 268
 S
 Sa  12, 269
 sa (disc of the sun)  323
 SA symbol  50
 Sabaoth  269, 353, 360
 Sabazios  269
 sacred stone. See kausrabha
 sacrifice. See human/blood
 sacrifice
 Sadaksari (Lokesvara)  188,
 269
 Sadbhuja-Sitatara  270
 Sadhanamala 56
 Sadhumati  270
 Sadrapa  270
 Sagaramati  270
 Sahar  270
 sahsginot ‘companion of the
 sword’  279
 Sai’ Al Qaum  270
 Sajara  270
 sake brewers  192
 Sakhmet  207, 216, 255,
 S
 270–271
 ˇakka(n)  271
 Sakra  271
 Sakti  271
 Adidharma  4
 Aksobhya  11
 Amitabha  15
 Amoghasiddhi  16
 Ardhanari(svara)  27
 Arya-Tara  31
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Badi Mata  43
 Bagala  43
 Bhairava  50
 Bhuvanesvari  52
 Brahmani  54
 Buddhakapala  56
 Chinnamastaka  65
 Citrasena  67
 Daya  72
 Dhumavati  76
 Dhyanibuddhasakti  77
 Digambara  78
 Durga  82
 Ganapatihrdaya  101
 Gauri  103
 Gulsilia Mata  107
 Halahala  111
 Harsa  114
 Hayagriva  117
 Heruka  123
 Hevajira  124
 Hrsikesa  129
 Indrani  139
 Jambhala  148
 Jnanadakini  149
 Kalacakra  153
 Kali (1)  153
 Kalika  153
 Kamaksi  155
 Kamala  155
 Kankar Mata  156
 Kanti  156
 Karttikeya  157
 Kaumari  158
 Kesava  159
 Kirti  161
 Kurukulla  168
 Laksmi  171
 Locana  176
 Mahakala  182
 Mahakali  182
 Mahamataras  182
 Mahavidya  184
 Mahesvari  184
 Maitreya  185
 Malhal Mata  186
 San Chou Niang Niang
 273
 Sandhya  273
 San-Dui  273
 Sangarios  273
 Sango  273, 282
 Sani  64, 273
 Saning Sari  273
 Sanjna  64, 265, 274, 297,
 353, 354
 Sanju  105, 274, 274
 Sankari  274
 Sankha(pala)  274
 Sanmukha  244, 274
 gSan Sgrub  273
 Santa  274
 Santana  78, 274
 Santi  274, 323
 Santoshí Mata  274
 Sanu  274, 274
 Sao Ching Niang Niang
 274
 S
 ˇapasˇ 274
 Saptamatara  275
 Badi Mata  43
 Camunda  59
 Candika  60
 Indrani  139
 Mamaki  186
 Marici  190
 Matara  192
 Medha  194
 Minaksi  199
 Nairamata  211
 Narasinhi  214
 Pandara  242
 Pansahi Mata  242
 Phul Mata  247
 Prabhasa  251
 Prajnaparamita  251
 Pratyusa  252
 Priti  253
 Prthivi  254
 Rati  263
 Ratnasambhava  263
 Sakti  271
 Samvara  273
 Sanmukha  274
 Santa  274
 Sitala(mata)  287
 Sodasi  290
 Tara  304
 Tripura  322
 Trivikrama  323
 Vaikuntha  333
 Vairocana  334
 Vaisnavi  334
 Vajradhara  334
 Vajradhatvisvari  334
 Vajrasrnkhala  335
 Vajravarahi  335
 Varahi  336
 Vasudhara  338
 Vasu(s)  337
 Virupaksa  342
 Yamantaka  353
 Yami  353
 Sakumo  271
 Sakyamuni  165, 190, 271
 S
 ˇala  271
 Salagrama  271
 Salevao  271, 278
 S
 ˇalim  271, 275
 Salm of Mahram  271
 salmon migration  323
 salt-makers  130
 sal (tree)  75
 Salus  271–272
 Sama  251, 272
 Samael  269, 272, 353
 Samantabhadra  52, 272,
 334
 Samantaprabha  272
 S
 ˇamasˇ 1, 40, 143, 272
 Samba  139, 272, 272
 Samhain 58
 Samkarsana  272
 Sampsa  272
 Samvara  273
 S
 Kankar Mata  156
 Karttiki  157
 Mahesvari  184
 Malhal Mata  186
 Matara  192
 Narasinhi  214
 Navasakti(s)  215
 Pansahi Mata  242
 Phul Mata  247
 Pradhana  251
 Raudri  264
 Sankari  274
 Santa  274
 Vaisnavi  334
 Varahi  337
 Yogesvari  356
 ˇar  271, 275
 S
 ˇara  275
 Saraddevi  275
 Sarama  275
 Saranyu  35, 275, 325, 344
 Sarapis  275
 Sarasvati  275–276
 Acchupta  3
 Benten-San  49
 Bharati  51
 Brahma  54
 Cakresvari  58
 Durga  83
 Gandhari  101
 Gauri  103
 Hotr(a)  128
 Ila  135
394 Index
 scarecrows  290
 Semele  43, 79, 113, 246,
 Sga’na  282
 Kali (2)  153
 Kulisankusa  167
 Mahakali  182
 Mahamanasika  182
 Maha-Sarasvati  183
 Mahi  184
 Manasi  187
 Manavi  187
 Naradatta  214
 Prajnapti  251
 Pustí  256
 Radha  261
 Rohini  266
 Sarvastramahajvala
 277
 Vac  332
 Vagbija  332
 Vajrasrnkhala  335
 Vidyadevi  341
 Visvakarman  343
 Vrtra  345
 Vyasa  345
 Sargon  viii
 Sarpanitu(m)  49
 S
 ˇarra Itu  276
 S
 ˇarrahitu. See S ˇarraItu
 Sarritor  276
 S
 ˇarruma  276
 Sarvabuddhadharma-Kosa
vati  276
 Sarvakarmavaranavisodhani
 276
 Sarvanivaranaviskambhin
 276
 Sarvapayanjaha  277
 Sarvasokatamonirghatamati
 277
 Sarvastramahajvala  277
 Sasanadevata  44, 58, 101,
 103, 277
 Sasuratum  41, 277
 Satabhisa  277
 Satarupa  54, 277
 Sati  71, 261, 277, 288, 342
 Satis  22, 277–278
 Satrughna  278
 Saturnus  278
 Satyabhama  261, 278
 Satyr  241, 278
 Saubhagya-Bhuvanesvari
 278
 Saule  196, 278, 309
 S
 ˇausˇka  165, 278
 Savari  278, 278
 Savea Si’uleo  271, 278
 Savitar  278–279
 Saxnot  279
 S
 ˇay  279
 Scandinavia. See Germanic
 gods; Nordic (Icelandic)
 gods
 scorpions  103, 300
 Scotland  55, 58
 seafarers. See mariners
 sea gods and deities. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Mama
 Qoca
 Aegir  5
 Amphitrite  17
 Glaukos  105
 Ignerssuak  134
 Immap Ukua  136
 Ka’cak  151
 Kere’tkun  159
 Kianda  161
 Leukothea  174
 Make Make  185
 Manannan (Mac Lir)
 187
 Manawyddan  187
 Ma-zu  194
 moana 302
 Munakata-No-Kami
 206
 Nai  210
 Nereides  218
 Nerrivik  218
 Ni  219
 Njord  225
 Nuli’rahak  227
 Okeanides  231–232
 Okeanos  232
 Olokun  232
 Opo  234
 Pontos  249
 Poseidon  249–250
 Sedna  279
 Sga’na  282
 Sumiyoshi-No-Kami
 296
 Tam Kung  301–302
 Tana’ao  302
 Tangaroa  302
 Ta’ngwanla’na  303
 Tethys  310
 Thetis  313
 Tienoltsodi  315
 Ull  328
 Wu  349
 Yamm  353
 Yu-Chiang  357
 Sebitti  279
 Securita  279
 S
 ˇed  279
 Sedna  279
 Sefkhet-Abwy  279
 seior (witchcraft)  97
 Sekhet-Hor  279
 Selardi  279
 Selene  91, 132, 179, 279,
 312
 279–280
 Semitic gods and deities  
viii
 A-a  1
 Amurru  18
 Asˇpalis  33
 Astarte  34
 Baal  41–42
 Dagan (2)  70
 El  87–88
 Ilaalge  135
 Kini’je  161
 Kotar  162
 Liluri  175
 Manawat  187
 Mlk-Amuklos  201
 Myrrha  208
 Nebo  216
 Nikkal  220
 Quadesˇ 258–259
 Rakib-El  262
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Sadrapa  270
 Sahar  270
 S
 ˇalim  271
 S
 ˇapasˇ 274
 S
 ˇar  275
 Sasuratum  277
 S
 ˇulmanitu  296
 Ugar  327
 Yamm  353
 Semnocosus  280
 senses  177
 Senx  12, 280, 289
 S
 ˇepset  279, 280
 Sequana  280
 S
 ˇerida  40, 280
 Serket(-hetyt)  235, 280
 Sesa(naga)  4, 280, 333
 Sesˇat  279, 281
 Sese  281
 S
 ˇesmetet  270, 281
 Seta  26, 281, 320, 321
 Seth  281–282
 Banebdjedet  46
 Ennead  91
 Geb  103
 Haroeris  113
 Horus  128
 Isis  141, 142
 Neith  217
 Nephthys  217
 Nut  227
 Onuris  234
 Osiris  235, 236
 Tawhaki  306
 Thoth  313
 sexuality. See love
 Seyon  282
 S
 ˇezmu  282
 Shadanana-Subrahmanya
 282
 shade  253
 shamanka 339, 356
 shamans vii
 Bagba  44
 Dharma  75
 Kutji  168
 Lalaia’il  171
 Quikinn.a’qu  260
 Taipan  301
 Tate  304
 Tatevali  305
 Tayau  307
 Teharon(hiawagon)
 308
 Tirawa  316
 Tornarssuk  321
 Wakan Tanka  346
 Wakonda  347
 Shang Kuo-Lao  282
 Shango  236, 238, 282, 283
 Shang Ti  282
 Shani  283
 Shankpana  283
 shape changing  204
 Sheela Na Gig  283
 sheep  286–287
 Shen Nung  283
 gShen-Lha-Odkhar  283
 gShen-Rab  283
 shepherds/herdsmen  29, 82,
 168, 241
 Shichi-Fuku-Jin  283
 Shina-Tsu-Hime. See Shina
Tsu-Niko
 Shina-Tsu-Niko  283
 Shinto (Japan)  xi. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Shichi
Fuku-Jin
 Aji-Shiki-Taka-Hiko
Ne  10
 Amaterasu-O-Mi-Kami
 13–14
 Ame-No-Mi-Kumari
No-Kami  14
 Ebisu  85–86
 Fujin  98
 Fukurokuju  98–99
 Hani-Yasu-Hiko  111
 Hani-Yasu-Hime  111
 Hara-Yama-Tsu-Mi
 112
 Haya-Ji  117
 Hiko-Sashiri-No-Kami
 125
 Hi-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
 126
 Hokushin-O-Kami
 127
Ho-Musubi-No-Kami
 Pu’gu  255
 Index 395
 127
 Ho-No-Kagu-Tsuchi
No-Kami  127
 Hotei  283
 Iku-Ikasuchi-No-Kami
 135
 Inari  138
 Inazuma  138
 Ishi-Kori-Dome  141
 Junrojin  149–150
 Kagu-Tsuchi-No-Kami
 152
 Kakaku  152
 Kamado-No-Kami
 155
 Kama-Gami  155
 Kamo-Wake-Ikazuchi
 156
 Kana-Yama-Biko-No
Kami  156
 Kana-Yama-Hime-No
Kami  156
 Kono-Hana-Sakuya
Hime-No-Kami  162
 Koto-Shiro-Nushi
 162
 Kuku-Ki-Waka-Muro
Tsuna-Ne-No-Kami
 166
 Kuku-Toshi-No-Kami
 166
 Kunado-No-Kami
 167
 Kura-Okami-No-Kami
 168
 Kushi-Iwa-Mado-No
Mikoto  168
 Matsuo  192
 Michi-No-Kami  197
 Mi-Kura-Tana-No
Kami  198
 Minato-No-Kami  199
 Mi-Toshi-No-Kami
 201
 Mi-Wi-No-Kami  201
 Mizu-Ha-No-Me  201
 Munakata-No-Kami
 206
 Nai-No-Kami  211
 Niha-Tsu-Hi-No
Kami  219
 Oki-Tsu-Hiko-No
Kami  232
 O-Kuni-Nushi-No
Mikoto  232
 O-lwa-Dai-Myojin
 231
 O-Toshi-No-Kami
 237
 O-Yama-Tsu-Mi  238
 Raijin  261–262
 Ryujin  268
 Shichi-Fuku-Jin  283
 Shina-Tsu-Niko  283
 Sohodo-No-Kami  290
 Suijin  294–295
 Sukuna-Hikona  295
 Sumiyoshi-No-Kami
 296
 Susano-Wo  298
 Taka-Mi-Musubi-No
Kami  301
 Taka-Okami-No-Kami
 301
 Take-Mika-Dzuchi
No-Kami  301
 Tama-No-Ya  302
 Ta-No-Kami  303
 Taoki-Ho-Oi-No
Kami  303
 Toyo-Uke-Bime  321
 Tsuki-Yomi  323
 Waka-Hiru-Me  346
 Waka-Sa-Na-Me-No
Kami  347
 Waka-Toshi-No-Kami
 347
 Yama-No-Kami  353
 ships  98, 168. See also
 mariners
 Shomde  284
 Shong Li-Kuan  284
 Shong-Kui  284
 Shou Lao  98, 284, 323
 Shurdi  284
 Si  284
 Sia  284
 S
 ˇi’a  284
 Siberia. See also Yakut; specific
 gods, e.g.: Kaltesh
 Ajysyt  10
 Eme’mqut  89
 Hinkon  126
 I’lena  135
 Ina’hitelan  137
 Ka’cak  151
 Kere’tkun  159
 Kuju  166
 Kutkhu  168–169
 Lietna’irgin  175
 Lo’cin-coro’mo  176
 Lo’cin-po’gil  176
 Me’mdeye-Eci’e  195
 Miti  201
 Mratna’irgin  205
 Na’chitna’irgin  210
 Na’ininen  211
 Na’nqa-ka’le  213
 Peju’lpe  245
 Picvu’cin  247
 Pudicita  255
 sistrum rattles  116
 Sisyphos  287
 Sita  112, 171, 262, 287
 Sitala(mata)  190, 287
 Sitapatra  287
 Sitatara  270, 287
 S
 ˇiva  288
 Agni  7
 Ammavaru  16
 Anantesa  19
 Qaitakalnin  258
 Qeskina’qu  258
 Quikinn.a’qu  260
 Si’duku  284
 Si’mskalin  285
 Tanara  302
 Tatqa’hicnin  306
 Taumata-Atua  306
 Ta’yan  307
 Ti’hmar  315
 Tna’nto  319
 Tnecei’vune  319
 Tne’sgan  319
 Toko’yoto  319
 Tomwo’get  319
 Uslo  330
 Va’irgin  333
 Ve’ai  339
 Velaute’mtilan  339
 Wu’squus  349
 Xaya Iccita  350
 Ya’china’ut  352
 Ya’halan  352
 Ya’halna’ut  352
 Yeloje  354
 Yina’mna’ut  355
 Yina’mtian  355
 Yine’ane’ut  355–356
 Yobin-Pogil  356
 sickness  231
 Siddhi  50, 284
 Siddi  181
 Si’duku  168, 284, 317
 Siduri  285
 Sif  285, 328
 Sigyn  285, 289
 Sikh  333
 Sikhandin  285
 Sikhin  285
 Silaparamita  285
 Silma Inua  285
 Silvanus  285, 294
 Si’mskalin  168, 285
 Sin  91, 126, 143, 279, 285,
 352
 Sina  126, 285, 302
 Sindhu  286
 Singala  286
 Sinhanada  286
 Sinivali  286
 Sins Sga’nagwai  286
 Siofn  286
 Sioux. See Native Americans
 Sipe Gialmo  286
 Sipylene  286
 Sirara  216, 286
 sirenes 10
 Sirona  286
 Sirsir  286
 Sirtur  286–287
 Ardhanari(svara)  27
 Bagala  43
 Bhadra  50
 Bhairava  50
 Bhuvanesvari  52
 Brahma  54
 Candesvara  59
 Candrasekhara  60
 Cathubodua  60
 Chinnamastaka  65
 Daksa  71
 Deva  74
 Dhanvantari  75
 Dhumavati  76
 Dhurjati  77
 Disa  79
 Durga  82, 83
 Ekanetra  87
 Ekarudra  87
 Ganesa  102
 Ganga  102
 Gauri  103
 Ghantakarna  104
 Goraknath  106
 Hara  112
 Heruka  123
 Hevajira  124
 Isa (1)  140
 Kacchapesvara  151
 Kala  152
 Kali (1)  153
 Kaligni-Rudra  153
 Kama(deva)  155
 Kamaksi  155
 Kamala  155
 Kamantakamurti  155
 Kankala(murti)  156
 Katyayani  158
 Khandoba  159
 Linga  175
 Lokesvara  176
 Mahakala  182
 Mahamataras  182
 Mahavidya  184
 Mangala  188
 Manu  189
 Mara  189
 Minaksi  199
 Mohini  202
 Nandi(n)  212
 Nataraja  215
396 Index
 Chiuke  65
 space  23
 Pancabrahma  241
 Pancanana  241–242
 Parasurama  243
 Parvati  244
 Pasupati  244
 Pidari  247
 Pradyumna  251
 Rati  263
 Rudra  267
 Sakti  271
 Sandhya  273
 Sati  277
 Sikhandin  285
 Sivottama  288
 Skanda  289
 Sodasi  290
 Somaskanda  291
 Srikantha  293
 Suksma  295
 Sundara  297
 Tara  304
 Trailokyavijaya  322
 Trayastrinsa  322
 Trimurti  322
 Tripura  322
 Uma  328
 Venkata  339
 Vidyesvara  341
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Vighnesvaranugramurti
 341
 Virabhadra  342
 Virupaksa  342
 Visvaksena  343
 Yamari  353
 Sivini  288
 Sivottama  288
 Skadi  225, 237, 285,
 288–289
 Skaldskaparmal 96
 Skanda  289
 Agni  7
 Devasena  74
 Gajavahana  101
 Karttikeya  157
 Kataragama  158
 Kaumari  158
 Krttika(s)  164
 Murukan  207
 Naigameya  211
 Palaniyantavan  241
 Parvati  244
 Sanmukha  274
 Somaskanda  291
 Valli  336
 skills  105, 106, 178
 sky. See also astral deities
 Aesir  6
 Ani  20
 Barsˇamin  47
 Chikara  65
 Colop U Uichkin  68
 Deng  74
 Feng Po  96
 Gukumatz  107
 Horus  128
 Ilmarinen  136
 Inmar  139
 Jabru  147
 Kini’je  161
 Kuju  166
 Mater Matuta  192
 Mawu  173
 Morva  204
 dMu-bDud Kam-Po
 Sa-Zan  205
 Mugasa  205
 Ndjambi  215
 Orisanla  234
 Othin  236–237
 Oxlahun Ti Ku  237
 Posis Das  250
 Qeskina’qu  258
 Ranginui  263
 Sodza  290
 Soko  290
 Sore-Gus  292
 Tanara  302
 Tin  315
 Tiwaz  317
 Ull  328
 Yayu  354
 Yu-ti  357
 Zalmoxis  358
 sleep  132
 Smertrios  289
 smiths. See blacksmithing
 Smrti  289
 snakes. See also specific gods,
 e.g. : Mahanaga
 Amun  17
 Ananta  19
 Athena  37
 Cernunnos  62
 Janguli  148
 Karkota  157
 Kebechet  159
 Kulika  167
 Mahabala  181
 Mahapadma  182
 Manasa  187
 Nagaraja  210
 Padma  239
 Renenutet  265
 Sankha(pala)  274
 Sesa(naga)  280
 Taipan  300–301
 Taksaka  301
 Snanayatra 147
 Snulk’ulxa’Is  289
 So  289
 Sobek  160, 217, 289–290
 Sodasi  290
 Sodza  289, 290
 Sogblen  289, 290
 Sogbo  290
 Sohodo-No-Kami  290
 Sokar  290
 Soko  290
 Sol (1) (Roman)  290–291
 Sol (2) (Nordic)  291
 Sol Invictus 291
 solar eclipses  8
 soldiers  200
 Solomon  34
 Soma  291
 Abhijit  1
 Anuradha  23
 Ardra  27
 Aslesa(s)  33
 Asvayujau  35
 Bharani  50
 Budha  56
 Citra  67
 Dhanistha  75
 Hasta  114
 Jyestha  150
 Magha  181
 Mrgasiras  205
 Mula  206
 Naksatra(s)  211
 Punarvasu  256
 Purvabhadrapada  256
 Purvaphalguni  256
 Purvasadha  256
 Pusya  257
 Revati  266
 Rohini  266
 Satabhisa  277
 Sravana  292
 Sravistha  292
 Svati  299
 Tara  304
 Uttarabhadrapada  330
 Uttarasadha  330
 soma (fermented drink)  60,
 76, 254
 Somaskanda  291
 Somnus  204, 291
 Somtus. See Harsomtus
 Songhai. See Africa
 Sopedu  291
 Sophia  248, 269, 291–292
 Sore-Gus  292
 Sors  292
 Sothis  292
 Souconna  292
 Soului  292
 South American  ix, 196,
 202, 211, 219, 243, 249.
 See also Inca; Peru
 Southern Lights  206
 Spandaramet  292
 speech  231, 332
 Spes  292
 spider  324
 Spiniensis  292
 spinning  37, 162
 springs and wells  145, 201
 spring (season)  48, 91, 337
 Sravana  292
 Sravistha  75, 292
 Sri(devi)  174, 275, 293, 337
 Srikantha  293
 Srivasumukhi  293
 Srivasundhara  293
 Srividyadevi  293
 stag  61
 Stanitabhavanavasi  51
 Stanitakumara  293
 star, evening and morning
 34, 38, 247, 317
 Stella Maris 141, 142
 Sterculius  293
 Stone of the Four Suns 230
 stoneworkers  141, 231
 storm gods and deities. See
 also lightning; thunder; 
specific gods, e.g.: Perende
 Aeolos  6
 Aeolus  6
 Donar  81
 Dongo  81
 Im  136
 Inkanyamba  139
 Isˇkur  142
 Marutgana  191
 Ninurta  224
 Ran  263
 Rauni  264
 Shango  282
 Shurdi  284
 Sogbo  290
 Summamus  296
 Thor  313
 Wer  347–348
 Zibelthiurdos  360
 strength  163
 Stribog  293
 strife  80, 93
 stupa 334, 342
 Styx  52, 163, 232, 293
 S
 ˇu  39, 91, 103, 228, 293,
 308
 Subhadra  147, 293
 Subhamekhala  294
 Subrahmanya  289, 294
 Sucellos  213, 294
 sudarshan (spoked disc)
 82–83
 Suddhodana  56, 294
 Sudrem  80, 294
Sura  297
 Index 397
 Sudurjaya  294
 Sugriva  294
 suicide  145
 Suijin  294–295
 Sukarasya  295
 Sukla-Tara  295
 Sukra  295
 Suksma  295
 Suku  295
 Sukuna-Hikona  295
 Suleviae  295
 Sulini  295
 Sulis  295
 S
 ˇullat  111, 295
 S
 ˇulman(u)  295–296
 S
 ˇulmanitu  296
 S
 ˇul-pa-e  296
 S
 ˇulsaga  296
 S
 ˇul-utula  296
 Sumalini  296
 Sumati  296
 Sumbha  296
 Sumbharaja  296, 296
 Sumer  viii. See also Babylon;
 specific gods, e.g.: Endursaga
 Adonis  4
 An (1)  18
 Dumuzi  82
 Enki  89–90
 Enlil  90
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Inana  137–138
 Isimud  141
 Isˇkur  142
 Nammu  211
 Nanna (1)  212–213
 Nergal  218
 Ninhursaga  221–222
 Ninurta  224
 Utu  330–331
 Sumiyoshi-No-Kami  206,
 296
 Summamus  296
 sumo wrestlers  225
 S
 ˇumugan  296
 Sundara  297
 sun gods and deities. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Ostara
 A-a  1
 Aditya  4
 Ah Kin  8
 Alk’unta’m  12
 Amaterasu-O-Mi-Kami
 13–14
 Amun  17
 Asis  32
 Aten  36
 Atum  38–39
 Bastet  47
 Belenus  48
 Cautha  61
 Hammon  111
 Helios  120
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Inti  140
 Iruva  140
 Mandulis  187–188
 Mor  203
 Phanes  247
 Pu’gu  255
 Pusan  256
 Rbhus  264
 Re  264–265
 S
 ˇamasˇ 272
 S
 ˇams  272
 S
 ˇapasˇ 274
 Saule  278
 Savitar  278–279
 Senx  280
 Sisyphos  287
 Sol (1)  290–291
 Sol (2)  291
 Surya (1)  297–298
 Svarozic  299
 Tate Velika Vimali  305
 Tayau  307
 Tayau Sakaimoka  307
 Tezcatlipoca  311–312
 Tsohanoai  323
 Utu  330–331
 Wai  346
 Waka-Hiru-Me  346
 Wi  348
 Wuriupranili  349
 Yeloje  354
 Yhi  354–355
 Sun Hou-Shi  296–297
 Suparikirtitanamasri  297
 Suparnabhavanavasi  51
 Suparnakumara  297
 supreme deities
 Ai Apaec  10
 Ame-No-Mi-Kumari
No-Kami  14
 Armaz  29
 Atea  35–36
 Katavul  158
 Kiya’rnarak  161
 Kucumatz  166
 Menechen  196
 Mukasa  206
 Ometecuhtli  233
 Qa’wadiliquala  258
 gShen-Rab  283
 Silma Inua  285
 Sins Sga’nagwai  286
 Ta’yan  307
 Ti’hmar  315
 Tornarssuk  321
 Va’irgin  333
 Yu Huang Shang Ti
 356
 Tama-No-Ya  302
 Tamats Palike Tamoyeke
 302
 Suraksini  297
 Surangama  297
 Suresvara  297
 Survarnabhadravimalarat
naprabhasa  297
 Surya (1) (male)  297–298
 Aditya  4
 Chaya  64
 Manu  189
 Marici  190
 Revanta  265
 Sani  273
 Sanjna  274
 Soma  291
 Surya (1)  297
 Surya (2)  298
 Uru’n Ajy Toyo’n  329
 Yama  353
 Yamuna  354
 Surya (2) (female)  298
 Susano-Wo  13, 14, 141,
 146, 237, 298
 Susinak  298
 S
 ˇutekh  110, 281, 298, 310
 suttee 277
 Svadha  298
 Svantevit  298
 Svaraghosaraja  299
 Svarozic  299
 Svasthavesini  299
 Svati  299
 Syamatara  299
 Syria  4, 19, 34, 87–88
 syrinx (pipes of Pan)  241
 T
 Tabiti  300
 Ta-Bitjet  300
 Taditkara  300
 Tahiti. See Polynesia
 Tailtiu  300
 Taipan  300–301
 T’ai Shan  300
 Tai-Sui-Jing  301
 T’ai Yi  300
 Tajin  301
 Takama-No-Hara (plain of
 high heaven)  14
 Taka-Mi-Musubi-No-Kami
 15, 301
 Taka-Okami-No-Kami  301
 Take-Mika-Dzuchi-No
Kami  99, 301
 Takkiraja  301
 Takotsi Nakawe  301
 Taksaka  301
 Ta’lab  301
 talaria (winged sandals)  196
 TAM bija or seed  31
 Tamils. See Dravidians
 Tam Kung  301–302
 Tanara  302
 Tana’ao  302
 Tane(mahuta)  302, 302
 Atea  36
 Hine-Ahu-One  126
 Hine-Ata-Uira  126
 Hine-Nui-Te-Po  126
 Ikatere  135
 Ranginui  263
 Tangaroa  302
 Tu (2)  323
 Whiro  348
 Tangaroa  23, 112, 125, 134,
 135, 189, 234, 266, 302,
 302, 316
 tangata (mankind)  324
 Tango  302–303, 324
 Ta’ngwanla’na  303
 Tanit  58, 303, 303
 Ta-No-Kami  71, 303
 Tanu’ta  303, 356
 T’ao Hua Hsiennui  303
 Taoism (Chinese). See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Cao Guo
jiu
 Ba Xian  41
 Han Xiang-zi  111
 He Xian-gu  117
 Ho-Po  127
 Hsi Wang Mu  129
 Kuan Ti  164–165
 Kuan Yin  165
 Lan Cai-He  171–172
 Lao-Tsze  172
 Lei Kung  173
 Li Tie-guai  41
 Lu Dong-bin  178
 Na Cha  209
 Pak Tai  240
 Shong-Kui  284
 Tin Hau  315–316
 Weng Shiang  347
 Yu Huang Shang Ti
 356
 Yu Shih  356–357
 Yu-ti  357
 Zhang Guo-Lao  360
 Zhong-Li Kuan  360
 Taoki-Ho-Oi-No-Kami
 125, 303
 Tapio  303
 Tar  303
 Tara  31, 51, 55, 56, 60, 74,
 87, 287, 295, 299,
 303–304
398 Index
 Taranis  304
 taran (thunder)  304
 Tarhunt  304
 Tari Pennu  53, 304
 Taru  304, 308
 Tarvos Trigaranos  304
 Tasenetnofret  304
 Tasˇmetu  212
 Tasmetu(m)  209
 Tasˇmetu(m)  304
 Tasˇmisˇu  304
 Tate  304
 Tate Hautse Kupuri  305
 Tate Kyewimoka  305, 305
 Tate Naaliwahi  305
 Tate Oteganaka  305, 307
 Tate Rapawiyema  305
 Tate Velika Vimali  305
 Tatenen  305
 Tatevali  197, 301, 305, 305
 Tathatavasita  305
 Tatosi  305, 305
 Tatqa’hicnin  306
 tattooers  2
 Taumata-Atua  306
 Tawa  306
 Taweret  306
 Tawhaki  306
 Tawhirimatea  135, 306, 
306
 Ta’xet  307
 Ta’yan  211, 303, 307
 Tayau  305, 307, 307
 Tayau Sakaimoka  307
 Te-Aka-la-Roe  307
 Te-Manava-Roa  307
 Te Kore  307
 Te Po  242, 307
 Te-Tanga-Engae  307
 Tecciztecatl  212, 307–308,
 318
 Tefnut  39, 91, 103, 227,
 293, 308
 Tegid Foel  204, 308
 Teharon(hiawagon)  308
 Teicauhtzin  308
 Teisbas  308
 Tejosnisa  308
 Telepinu  45, 111, 156, 304,
 308–309
 Teliko  95, 309
 Teljavelik  309
 Tellus  265, 309, 340
 Telpochtli  309
 Tenanto’mni  309
 Tenanto’mwan  135, 309,
 319, 333, 352, 354
 tents  106, 107
 Tepeyollotl  309
 Tepoztecatl  309
 Terminus  309
 Terra Mater  219, 309, 309
 terrifying appearance/aspect
 60, 81, 104, 252, 256, 278,
 340
 Te sˇub  310
 Arinna  28
 Hebat  118
 Inara  138
 Indra  139
 S
 ˇarruma  276
 Seth  282
 Sisyphos  287
 S
 ˇutekh  298
 Tasˇmisˇu  304
 Telepinu  308
 Tilla  315
 Zeus  359
 Teteo Innan Teteo  310
 Teteoinnan  67, 144, 145,
 310, 310, 311, 318, 351
 Teteoinnan-Toci  310
 Tethys  10, 81, 197, 232,
 293, 310, 316
 Tetzahauteotl  310
 Tetzahuitl  310
 Teuhcatl  311
 Teutates  311
 Tewi’xilak  258, 311
 Tezcacoac Ayopechtli  311
 Tezcatlipoca  311–312
 Chalchiutotolin  63
 Cipactli  66
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Itztli  144
 Ixquimilli-Itzlacoli
uhqui  145
 Metztli  197
 Mixcoatl-Camaxtli  201
 Moyocoyani  205
 Ocelotl  230
 Omacatl  233
 Ome Tochtli  233
 Ometecuhtli  233
 Ometeotl  233
 Quetzalcoatl  259
 Tecciztecatl  308
 Telpochtli  309
 Tepeyollotl  309
 Titlacahuan  317
 Tlaltecuhtli  318
 Tonacacihuatl  320
 Tonacatecuhtli  320
 Xipe Totec  350
 Yaw  354
 Tezcatlipoca-Itztlacoliuhqui
 312
 Tezcatzoncatl  312
 Thab-Iha  312
 Thakur Deo  76, 312
 Thalna  312
 Thanatos  132, 204, 228,
 312
 Thatmanitu  312
 Thea  91, 132, 237, 312, 316
 Theandros  312
 Thebes  28, 36, 116, 122,
 199
 Themis  37, 87, 94, 162,
 170, 202, 266, 312
 Theogony (Hesiod)
 Aeacos  5
 Aphrodite  24
 Ares  28
 Artemis  30
 Athena  37
 Boreas  53
 Doris  81
 Eileithyia  87
 Gaia  100
 Hades  110
 Hekate  119
 Helen  119
 Helios  120
 Hephaistos  120
 Hera  121
 Hermes  122
 Nike  220
 Posis Das  250
 Rhea  266
 Tyche  325
 Thesan  312
 Thetis  81, 237, 313
 Thor  96, 126, 127, 140,
 177, 285, 313, 328, 340
 Thoth  313–314
 thunder. See also lightning;
 specific gods, e.g.: Perkons
 Ah Peku  9
 Iku-Ikasuchi-No-Kami
 135
 Lei Kung  173
 Ninurta  224
 Pajonn  240
 Perun  246
 Sango  273
 Take-Mika-Dzuchi
No-Kami  301
 Taranis  304
 Tzultacah  325–326
 Ukko  327
 Xewioso  350
 Thuremlin  314
 thyrsus (wand)  43
 Tia  314
 Tiamat  26, 170, 190, 314
 Tiberinus  314
 Tibet. See also Buddhism;
 specific gods, e.g.: Mahakala
 Abhijnaraja  1
 Adidharma  4
 Gon-Po Nag-Po  106
 Gur-Gyi Mgon-Po
 107
 Khon-Ma  160
 sMan-Bla  187
 dMu-bDud Kam-Po
 Sa-Zan  205
 Nang Lha  212
 gNyan  228
 gSan Sgrub  273
 Savari  278
 gShen-Lha-Odkhar
 283
 gShen-Rab  283
 Sikhin  285
 Thab-Iha  312
 Tien Mu  314
 T’ien Tsun  314
 Tienoltsodi  315
 Tifenua  95, 315
 Ti’hmar  315
 Tiki  315, 315
 tikiwananga (god stick)  315
 Tiksnosnisa  315
 Tilla  315
 Timaiti-Ngava Ringavari
 315, 315
 Timatekore  315, 315
 time  301, 360
 Tin  312, 315
 Tin Hau  165, 315–316, 321
 Tinirau  39, 303, 316
 Tinnit  316
 Tino Taata  134, 316
 Tir  316
 Tirawa  316
 tirthankava 244, 277
 Tirumal  316
 Tispak  220
 Tisˇpak  316
 Titans  100, 132, 133, 163,
 174, 237, 279, 310, 312,
 316, 359
 Titlacahuan  316–317
 Tiwaz  140, 237, 317
 Ti’ykitiy  317
 Ti’zil-Kutkhu  168, 284, 317
 Tlacahuepan  317
 Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli  259,
 317
 Tlalehitonatiuh  317
 Tlaloc  318
 Chalchiuhtlicue  63
 Huixtocihuatl  130
 Matlalcueye  192
 Nahui Ehecatl  210
 Nanahuatl  212
 Nappatecuhtli  213
 Opochtli  234
 Quiahuitl  259
 Tecciztecatl  308
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton
 318
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli  319
 Yauhqueme  354
 Tlaloque-Tepictoton  318
 Tlaltecuhtli  66, 259, 318
Hakea  110
 Index 399
 Tlazolteotl (Ixcuiname)  318
 Tloque Nahauque  319
 Tna’nto  319
 Tnecei’vune  319
 Tne’sgan  319
 Toa’lalit  319
 Tobadzistsini  319
 Tokakami  197, 319
 Toko’yoto  319
 Tomiyauhtecuhtli  319
 Tomor  319
 Tomwo’get  319
 Tonacacihuatl  311, 320, 320
 Tonacatecuhtli  311, 320,
 320
 Tonaleque  320
 Tonatiuh  210, 320
 Tonenili  315, 320
 Topoh  320, 321
 Tork  320
 Tornarssuk  321
 tornat 321
 Toro  321
 Tororut  26, 32, 135, 281,
 320, 321
 Totatis. See Teutates
 Totilma’il  321
 Totoltecatl  321
 Tou Mou  321
 Touia Fatuna  184, 321
 Toumou  321
 Toyo-Uke-Bime  138, 321
 Tozi  322
 Trailokyavijaya  322, 322
 Trayastrinsa  322
 treaties  186
 trees  1, 75, 125, 177, 228,
 353
 Triglav  322
 Trikantakidevi  322
 Trimurti  322
 Tripura  322
 Trita  322
 Tritons  322
 Trivikrama  102, 274,
 322–323
 Trograin  178, 323
 Trojan War  120, 121
 Troy  24, 119–120
 Tsai Shen  98, 323
 Tsa’qamae  323
 Tsohanoai  94, 215, 323
 Tsuki-Yomi  323
 Tsunigoab  323
 Tu (1) (Chinese)  323
 Tu (2) (Polynesian)
 323–324
 Tuatha de Danaan  22, 55,
 72, 78, 105, 227, 300, 324
 Tule  324
 Tumatauenga  263, 302, 324
 Tu-Metua  324
 Tumuteanaoa  324
 Tunek  324–325
 Turan  325
 Turkey. See also specific gods,
 e.g.: Sabazios
 Adrastea  4–5
 Aphrodisias  24
 Attis  38
 Kybele  169
 Ma  180
 Men  195
 Papas  242
 Priapos  252–253
 Sangarios  273
 Telepinu  308–309
 Tesub  310
 Turms  325
 Tutu  325
 Tvastar  274, 275, 325, 343,
 344
 Tyche  7, 35, 97, 100, 226,
 232, 284, 292, 325
 tyet (bloodstone amulet)  141
 Tyr  83
 Tzontemoc  325
 Tzu Sun Niangniang  325
 Tzultacah  325–326
 U
 Ua-Ildak  327
 Ubertas  327
 ubhaga  294
 Ucchusma  327
 Udadhibhavanavasi  51
 Udadhikumara  327
 Ugar  327
 ugra 50, 271, 322
 Ugracandika  327
 Ugratara  327
 Ukko  264, 327
 Ukur  327
 Ull  285, 328
 Ulu’tuyar Ulu Toyo’n  328
 Uma  291, 328
 Umashi-Ashi-Kabi-Hiko-Ji
No-Kami  328
 Umvelinkwangi  328, 328
 unborn children  10
 underground waters  2, 26,
 190, 314
 underworld. See also
 chthonic deities; death and
 the dead; Hades; specific
 gods, e.g.: Pen Annwen
 Acolmiztli  3
 Acolnahuacatl  3
 Alpanu  13
 Arsan Duolai  29
 Dumuzi  82
 Eresˇkigal  92
 Hine-Nui-Te-Po  126
 Minos  200
 Nergal  218
 Osiris  235–236
 Perse  246
 Persephone  246
 Pluto  248
 Yacahuiztli  352
 Uni  328
 Unkulunkulu  328, 328
 Unumbote  329
 Unxia  329
 Upakesini  329
 Upapattivasita  329
 Upayaparamita  329
 Upulvan  70, 329
 uraeus 36, 39, 265, 346
 Uranos. See Ouranos
 Urasˇ 161, 329
 Uru’n Ajy Toyo’n  329
 Usas  264, 329–330
 Usins  330
 Uslo  330
 Usnisa  64, 77, 264, 330,
 344
 Usnisavijaya  330, 334
 Uttarabhadrapada  330
 Uttaraphalguni  330
 Uttarasadha  330
 Uttu (vegetation and weav
ing)  89, 330
 Utu (sun god)  137, 142,
 212, 220–221, 272, 330,
 330–331
 V
 Vac  332
 Vacuna  332
 Vadali  332
 Vagbija  332
 Vagisvara  332
 Vagitanus  332
 Vahagn  332
 Vahguru  333
 Vaikhanasagama 220
 Vaikuntha  333
 Vaimanika  333
 Vairacocha  239, 333
 Va’irgin  333
 Vairocana  333–334
 Amaterasu-O-Mi-Kami
 14
 Grahamatrka  106
 Kun-Rig  167
 Locana  176
 Mahasahaspramardani
 183
 Marici  190
 Namasangiti  211
 Samantabhadra  272
 Sitapatra  287
 Sitatara  287
 Usnisavijaya  330
 Vajradhatvisvari  334
 Vajravarahi  335
 Vairotya  334
 Vaisnavi  334
 Vajracarcika  334
 Vajradaka  334, 335
 Vajradhara  251, 334
 Vajradhatvisvari  334, 334
 Vajragandhari  334
 Vajragarbha  334
 Vajraghanta  334
 Vajramrta  334–335
 Vajrapani  11, 12, 102, 335
 Vajrapasi  335
 Vajrasphota  335
 Vajrasrnkhala  335
 Vajratara  263, 335
 Vajravarahi  124, 273, 335
 Vajravidarani  335
 Vajrayana. See Buddhism
 Vajrayogini  263, 335
 Vajrosnisa  335
 Valhalla  53, 237
 Vali (Icelandic)  127, 266,
 335–336
 Valli (Hindu)  289, 336
 Valtam  336
 Vamana  45, 288, 336, 342,
 343
 Vana-Durga  336
 Vanir  6, 97, 98, 119, 127,
 169, 199, 225, 237, 328,
 336
 Varaha  51, 333, 336
 Varahi  336–337
 Varahmukhi  337
 Varali  337
 Vari-Ma-Te-Takere  36, 39,
 262, 302–303, 316, 324,
 337
 Varuna  4, 9, 103, 201, 254,
 337, 337
 Vasantadevi  337
 Vasita  337
 Adhimuktivasita  3
 Ayurvasita  40
 Buddhabodhiprabhava
sita  56
 Cittavasita  67
 Dharmavasita  76
 Jnanavasita  149
 Karmavasita  157
 Pariskaravasita  243
 Pranidhanavasita  252
 Riddhivasita  266
 Tathatavasita  305
 Upapattivasita  329
 Vasu(s)  322, 337
400 Index
 vasu deities  18, 20, 23, 75,
 76, 251, 252, 291
 Vasudeva  45, 74, 163, 293,
 337
 Vasudhara  51, 148, 166,
 263, 293, 338, 338
 Vasumatisri  338
 Vasusri  338
 Vasya-tara  338
 Vata  338
 Vatapattrasayin  338
 Vaticanus B codices  86, 317
 Vayu (1) (Hindu)  51, 245,
 338
 Vayu (2) (Buddhist)  338
 Vayubhavanavasi  51
 Vayukumara  338
 Ve  57, 338, 341
 Ve’ai  339
 Vedas 54, 117, 193, 297
 Vedic. See Hinduism
 vegetation deities. See also
 specific gods, e.g.: Pellon
 Pekko
 Adonis  4
 Anna Kuari  21
 Ariadne  28
 Asˇnan  33
 Attis  38
 Baal  41–42
 Bres Macelatha  55
 Chalchiuhtlicue  63
 Demeter  73
 Disani  80
 Dumuzi  82
 Freyja  97
 Geb  103
 Haumiatiketike
 116–117
 Hyakinthos  131–132
 Ix Kanan  145
 Khadir  159
 Ma  180
 Malakbel  185
 Nanna (2)  213
 Osiris  235–236
 Sampsa  272
 Saraddevi  275
 Soului  292
 Takotsi Nakawe  301
 Tatqa’hicnin  306
 Taumata-Atua  306
 Telepinu  308–309
 Ua-Ildak  327
 Ugar  327
 Uttu  330
 Uttu (goddess of vege
tation and weaving)
 330
 Ve’ai  339
 Velaute’mtilan  339
 Heimdall  118
 Hoder  127
 Idunn  133
 Iord  140
 Xipe Totec  350
 Yum Kaax  357
 Veive  339
 Veja Mate  339
 Velaute’mtilan  339
 Veles  339
 Velu Mate  339
 Venda  339
 Venkata  339
 Venus  xi, 24, 58, 113, 125,
 132, 191, 339, 345
 Verbti  339
 Verethragna  338, 340
 Vertumnus  249, 340, 344
 Vervactor  340
 Vesta  300, 340
 Vestal Virgins  340
 Vetali  340, 340
 Vetus Testamentum Song of
 Solomon  18, 32, 41, 48,
 88, 89, 100, 132, 296
 Victoria  220, 340
 victory  24, 219–220,
 236–237, 332, 340
 Vidar  340
 Vidyadevi  341
 Acchupta  3
 Cakresvari  58
 Gandhari  101
 Gauri  103
 Kulisankusa  167
 Mahakali  182
 Mahamanasika  182
 Manasi  187
 Manavi  187
 Naradatta  214
 Prajnapti  251
 Rohini  266
 Sarvastramahajvala  277
 Vairotya  334
 Vajrasrnkhala  335
 Vidyapati-Lokesvara  341
 Vidyesvara  19, 87, 285, 288,
 293, 295, 341
 Vidyraja  341
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Vidyutbhavanavasi  51
 Vidyutkumara  341
 Vienna codex  144
 Vighnantaka  341
 Vighnesvaranugramurti  341
 Vijaya  274, 341
 Vikalaratri  341
 Vikings  ix. See also Nordic
 gods
 Aegir  5
 Aesir  6
 Bragi  53
 Freyja  97
 Freyr  97–98
 Frigg  98
 Loki  176–177
 Mimir  198–199
 Njord  225
 Othin  236–237
 Thor  313
 Vanir  336
 Vili  53, 57, 338, 341
 Vimala  341
 vimana 333
 Vina  342
 Vindhya  342
 violent  59
 Virabhadra  342
 Viraj  342
 Viraratri  43, 65, 342
 Virbius  342
 Virgin Mary  30, 53, 142,
 145, 186, 202
 Virtus  342
 Virudhaka  342
 Virupaksa  342
 Viryaparamita  342
 Visˇnu  342–343
 Adimurti  4
 Ammavaru  16
 Annamurti  21
 Arjuna  29
 Avalokitesvara  39
 Balarama  45
 Bali  45
 Bhagavan  50
 Bhumidevi  51
 Bhumiya  51
 Brahma  54
 Buddha  56
 Cakra  58
 Cathubodua  60
 Chaitanya  62
 Daya  72
 Deva  74
 Devaki  74
 Dhanvantari  75
 Dharma  75
 Dhruva  76
 Durga  82
 Ganesa  102
 Ganga  102
 Garuda  102
 Hansa  111
 Hanuman  112
 Hari  113
 Hayagriva  117
 Hevajira  124
 Hrsikesa  129
 Jagannath  147
 Kacchapesvara  151
 Kalki(n)  154
 Kama(deva)  154
 Kamalasana  155
 Kankala(murti)  156
 Kantatman  156
 Kesava  159
 Krsna  163
 Kurma(vatara)  168
 Laksmi  171
 Lokesvara  176
 Mal  185
 Mandhata  187
 Mara  189
 Matsya  193
 Mayon  194
 Mohini  202
 Nara  213
 Narada  214
 Narasinha  214
 Narayana  214
 Nediyon  216
 Niladevi  220
 Padma  239
 Parasurama  243
 Parvati  244
 Piyusaharana  248
 Pradyumna  251
 Priti  253
 Prthivi  254
 Prthu  254
 Purusa  256
 Pustí  256
 Radha  261
 Rahu  261
 Rama  262
 Rati  263
 Rsabha  267
 Salagrama  271
 Sarasvati  276
 Satyabhama  278
 Sesa(naga)  280
 Sita  287
 Sri(devi)  293
 Tirumal  316
 Trayastrinsa  322
 Trimurti  322
 Trivikrama  322
 Upulvan  329
 Vaikuntha  333
 Vaisnavi  334
 Vamana  336
 Varaha  336
 Vatapattrasayin  338
 Venkata  339
 Vidyujjvalakarili  341
 Virabhadra  342
 Visˇnu Trivikrama  343
 Visvaksena  343
 Visvarupa  344
 Vitthali  344
 Vyasa  345
 Yajna  352
Index 401
 Visˇnu Trivikrama  343
 Visvakarman  147, 343
 Visvaksena  156, 343
 Visvamitra  343
 Visvarupa  29, 275, 344
 Visvosnisa  344
 Vitthali  344
 Vitzilipuztli  344
 Vivasvan  35, 344
 Vodu  344
 volcanoes  116, 124, 125,
 245, 267
 Voltumna  344
 Volumna  344
 Voluspa 96, 119, 127
 voodoo 344
 Vor  344
 Vosegus  344
 Votyak (Finno-Ugric)  139
 Vrtra  72, 276, 345
 Vulcanus  185, 304, 325, 345
 Vyasa  345
 W
 Wadd  346
 Wadj Wer  346
 Wadjet  216, 264, 265, 346,
 347
 Wai  194, 346
 Waka  346
 Waka-Hiru-Me  346
 Wakan Tanka  346–347, 348
 Waka-Sa-Na-Me-No-Kami
 347
 Waka-Toshi-No-Kami  347
 Wakonda  347
 Wamala  347
 Wanka  347
 Waralden Olmai  347
 war gods and deities. See also
 victory; specific gods, e.g.:
 Neit
 Ah Hulneb  8
 Anat  19
 Apedemak  24
 Aphrodite  24
 Ares  28
 Astarte  34
 Athena  36–37
 Chang Fei  63
 Huitzilpochtli  130
 Inana  137–138
 Isˇtar  142–143
 Kibuka  161
 Korravai  162
 Kuan Ti  164–165
 Laran  172
 Mars  191
 Maru  191
 Mes Lam Taea  196
 Minerva  199–200
 Mixcoatl-Camaxtli
 201
 Morvran  204
 Muhingo  205
 Murukan  207
 Nayenezgani  215
 Nuadu  226–227
 Ogun  231
 Onuris  233–234
 Opo  234
 Oro  234
 Paiawon  240
 Pak Tai  240
 Quirinus  260
 Resˇep (A)Mukal  265
 Rigisamus  266
 Sakhmet  270–271
 Sakumo  271
 S
 ˇala  271
 Semnocosus  280
 Skanda  289
 Svantevit  298
 Thor  313
 Tiwaz  317
 Tobadzistsini  319
 Triglav  322
 Tumatauenga  324
 Vidar  340
 Virabhadra  342
 Wiu  348
 Wodan  348–349
 Zababa  358
 warriors  82–83, 202–203
 was (rod of dominion)  255
 water. See also rain gods and
 deities; river gods and
 deities; sea gods and
 deities
 Ah Kumix Uinicob  8
 Ah Patnar Uinicob  9
 Banga  46
 Chalchiuhtlatonal  62
 Chalchiuhtlicue
 62–63
 Cit Chac Coh  66
 Coventina  68–69
 Ea  85
 Enki  89–90
 Hara Ke  112
 Iccovellauna  133
 Mizu-Ha-No-Me  
201
 Nantosuelta  213
 Nemausius  217
 Nethuns  219
 Olokun  232
 Suijin  294–295
 Tate Hautse Kupuri
 305
 Fujin  98
 Hanui-o-rangi
 111–112
 Haya-Ji  117
 Njord  225
 Notus  226
 Raka (2)  262
 Tate Kyewimoka  305
 Tate Naaliwahi  305
 Tate Rapawiyema  305
 Tegid Foel  308
 Tienoltsodi  315
 Tin Hau  315–316
 Yemoja  354
 Wawki  347
 wealth  10, 32, 73, 166, 243,
 248, 323
 weather. See also rain gods
 and deities; storm gods
 and deities; specific gods,
 e.g.: Menzabac
 Adad  3
 Aplu  25
 Aquilo  26
 Barsˇamin  47
 Eacus  85
 Hadad  109–110
 Hanui-o-rangi
 111–112
 Horagalles  127
 Ilyapa  136
 Indr  138
 Munume  207
 Nong  226
 Pariacaca  243
 Quzah  260
 Raijin  261–262
 Rudra  267–268
 So  289
 Sudrem  294
 Susano-Wo  298
 S
 ˇutekh  298
 Tana’ao  302
 Tarhunt  304
 Taru  304
 Tesub  310
 weaving  15, 145, 330
 wells. See springs and wells
 Welsh. See Celts
 Weng Shiang  347
 Wepwawet  347
 Wer  347–348
 Weri Kumbamba  348
 whale  152, 266–267
 Whiro  348, 348
 white men  2
 Whope  348, 348
 Wi  348, 348
 wind. See also specific gods,
 e.g.: Pavana
 Adad  3
 Aeolos  6
 Aeolus  6
 Bagba  44
 Boreas  53
 Buadza  55
 Chaob  64
 Corus  68
 Shina-Tsu-Niko  283
 Stribog  293
 Tamats Palike
 Tamoyeke  302
 Tawhirimatea  306
 Teliko  309
 Vata  338
 Vayu (1)  338
 Veja Mate  339
 Zephyrus  359
 Windigo  348
 wine  2, 43, 78–79, 297
 winter  55, 58, 226
 wisdom. See also learning
 A’asˇ 1
 Enki  89–90
 Ganesa  101–102
 Ifa  133–134
 Metis  197
 Mimir  198–199
 Nabu  209–210
 Nebo  216
 Nissaba  225
 Ori  234
 Thoth  313–314
 Tir  316
 witchcraft  97, 267
 Wiu  348
 Wodan  237, 348–349
 wolves  179
 Wong Taisin  349
 woodland  194, 278
 Wosret  349
 wrath  139
 writing  166, 209–210, 216,
 225, 279, 281. See also lit
erature
 Wu  349
 Wuriupranili  349
 Wu’squus  209, 349
 X
 Xaya Iccita  330, 350
 Xewioso  350
 Xilonen  350
 Xil Sga’nagwai  350
 Xipe Totec  350
 Xiuhtecuhtli  350
 Chantico  64
 Chiconahui  65
 Coyolxauhqui  69
 Huehuecoyotl  130
402 Index
 Yamaduti  353
 Huehuecoyotl-Coyotli
nahual  130
 Huehuetotl  130
 Intal  139
 Itzcuintli  144
 Ixcozauhqui  145
 Ixtlilton  145
 Ometecuhtli  233
 Teteo Innan Teteo  310
 Xolotl  351
 Xolotl Nanahuatl  351
 Xochiquetzal  311, 350–351
 Xochiquetzal-Ichpuchtli
 351
 Xolotl  86, 351, 351
 Xolotl Nanahuatl  351
 Y
 Yacacoliuhqui  352
 Yacahuiztli  352, 356
 Yacapitzahuac  352
 Yacatecuhtli  68, 352, 352
 Ya’china’ut  352
 Yah  352
 Ya’halan  137, 307, 352
 Ya’halna’ut  352
 Yajna  352
 Yaksa 102
 Yaksas  353
 Yakut (Siberia)  9, 29, 328,
 329
 Yaldabaoth  33, 86, 89, 234,
 253, 269, 292, 353
 Yama  353
 Dhumorna  77
 Kala  152
 Nan-Sgrub  213
 Phyi-Sgrub  247
 Sanjna  274
 gSan Sgrub  273
 Saranyu  275
 Surya (1)  297
 Visˇnu  343
 Vivasvan  344
 Yamaduti  353
 Yamantaka  353
 Yamari  353
 Yamuna  354
 Yama-No-Kami  353
 Yamantaka  353
 Yamari  262, 353
 Yami  59, 275, 353, 353
 Yamm  162, 353
 yantra (geometric magical
 diagram)  45
 Yaro  354
 Yasodhara  56, 354
 Yauhqueme  354
 Yaw  354
 Ya’qhicnin  354
 Yayu  354
 Yeloje  354
 Yemekonji  354
 Yemoja  354
 Yen Kuang Niang Niang
 354
 Yggdrasil (world tree)  119
 Yhi  354–355
 Yhwh  355
 yi-dam god  273
 Yina’mna’ut  355, 355
 Yina’mtian  335, 355
 Yine’ane’ut  201, 303, 352,
 355–356
 Yng  97, 356
 Yoalli Ehecatli  356
 Yoaltecuhtf  356
 Yobin-Pogil  173, 356
 Yocahu  356
 Yogesvari  356
 Yogi 288
 Yolkai Estan  94, 356
 yoni 271, 288
 Yoruba
 Age  7
 Ajalamo  10
 Aje  10
 Eshu  93–94
 Ifa  133–134
 Obatala  230
 Oduduwa  230–231
 Oko  232
 Olodumare  232
 Olokun  232
 Ori  234
 Orisanla  234
 Orunmila  235
 Osun  236
 Oya  238
 Sango  273
 Shango  282
 Shankpana  283
 Yemoja  354
 youth  118, 150, 180, 195
 Yspaddaden Pencawr  356
 Yu Huang Shang Ti  356
 Yu Shih  173, 356–357
 Yu-Chiang  357
 Yukaghir (southeastern
 Siberia)  173, 249
 Yum Cimil  357
 Yum Kaax  357
 Yu-ti  357
 Z
 Zababa  358
 Zalmoxis  358
 Zapotlantenan  358
 Zara-Mama  358
 Zarpanitu(m)  49, 190, 209,
 358
 zbl (prince)  42
 Zemepatis  358
 Zemi(s)  56, 95, 358
 Zemyna  358–359
 Zephyrus  6, 96, 359
 Zethos  359, 359
 Zeus  xi, 359–360
 Aeacos  5
 Anu (1)  22
 Aphrodite  24
 Apollo  25
 Ares  28
 Ariadne  28
 Artemis  30
 Asklepios  33
 Ate  35
 Athena  37
 Atropos  37
 Baal  42
 Baal S ˇamin  42
 Demeter  73
 Dike  78
 Dyaus Pitar  83
 Egeria  86
 Eileithyia  87
 Eirene  87
 Eunomia  94
 Hebe  118
 Hekate  119
 Helen  119, 120
 Hera  121
 Herakles  121
 Hermes  122
 Jupiter  150
 Klotho  162
 Kouretes  162
 Kronos  163
 Kybele  169
 Lachesis  170
 Leto  174
 Maia  185
 Marnas  191
 Metis  197
 Minerva  200
 Mnemosyne  201
 Moirai  202
 Nemesis  217
 Okeanos  232
 Papas  242
 Persephone  246
 Plutos  248
 Poseidon  250
 Posis Das  250
 Prometheus  253
 Rhea  266
 Sabazios  269
 Sarapis  275
 Semele  280
 Themis  312
 Titans  316
 Tyche  325
 Yhwh  355
 Zhang Guo-Lao  360
 Zhiwud  360
 Zhong-Li Kuan  41, 360
 Zibelthiurdos  360
 Zipakna  151, 360
 Zoe  360
 Zoroastrianism  viii, 9–10,
 20, 200. See also Persia
 Zotz  360
 Zurvan  360
REVELATION