THE ULTIMATE
 ENCYCLOPEDIA 
ofSpells

THE ULTIMATE
 ENCYCLOPEDIA 
of
 Spells
 Michael Johnstone
This edition published in 2006 by Arcturus Publishing Limited 
26/27 Bickels Yard, 151–153 Bermondsey Street, 
London SE1 3HA
 Copyright © 2003 Arcturus Publishing Limited
 All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
 stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any
 means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise,
 without written permission in accordance with the provisions of the
 Copyright Act 1956 (as amended). Any person or persons who do any
 unauthorised act in relation to this publication may be liable to 
criminal prosecution and civil claims for damages.
 ISBN-13: 978-1-84193-140-1
 ISBN-10: 1-84193-140-3
 Printed in China
 Designer: Kevin Ancient
 Editor: Rebecca Panayiotou
y y
 y y
 CONTENTS
 Introduction
 Witchcraft Past and Present 7
 Paganism11
 The Coming of the Bad Times 13
 The Dawn of a New Age 18
 The Wiccan Way20
 A Principled Group of People 25
 Other Traditions 26
 Low Magic and High Magic 27
 Some Curious Beliefs 28
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals 31
 Tools 33
 The Elements and Other Powers 39
 Consecration41
 The Basic Ritual 42
 When to Do Magic 46
 Magic in Many Guises 51
 Candle Magic 53
 Knot Magic 64
 The Spell’s the Thing 67
 The Book of Shadows 73
y
 y y
 y
 THE SPELLS
 Spells to Find Love 79
 A Spell to Evoke a Romantic Response 81
 A Spell to Win Affections 82
 A Spell to Make Love Grow83
 A Spell to Revive Passion84
 A Spell that has Worked for Many85
 A Simple Spell 86
 A Spell to Have Love Returned87
 A Spell with No One Particular in Mind88
 A Spell for New Love 89
 A Spell with Small Beginnings 90
 A Spell to Find Out a Lover’s Initials 92
 A Spell for Love Within the Month93
 A Spell for True Love 94
 A Spell for the Lovelorn96
 A Spell to Find Love for the First Time 98
 A Spell for When Love is Shaky99
 A Spell to Keep a Lover Faithful 100
 A Spell Based on a Nursery Rhyme 101
 A Spell to Fill a Lonely Gap102
 A Spell for Bakers 103
 A Spell for Those Who Change Their Minds 104
 A Colourful Spell that Takes a Week to Cast 105
 The Last Resort 108
 Spells For When Love is Dead 109
 A Spell to Say,‘It’s Over!’ 111
 A Spell that is Bittersweet 112
 A Spell to Make Someone Accept the Inevitable 113
 A Spell for a Love that is Slowly Dying114
 A Spell to Mend a Broken Heart 116
y y
 y y
 Spells to Settle Arguments 119
 A Spell to Restore Friendship121
 A Spell to Help Feuding Families 122
 A Spell to Stop Family Arguments 123
 A Spell for Friends Who Have Fallen Out 124
 A Spell for Burying the Hatchet 125
 A Spell to Mend a Lovers’ Quarrel 126
 Spells for Health 127
 A Spell to Restore Good Health129
 A Spell for Healing130
 A Healing Spell that Uses Knots 131
 A Spell with a Basket 132
 A Spell to Break Unhealthy Habits 133
 A Spell for Women of a Certain Age 134
 A Spell to Help Conquer Dependence 136
 A Kite Spell for Health138
 Spells to Attract Money 139
 A Spell to Attract Cash141
 A Spell to Make You Think About Money142
 A Spell to Make a Money Bottle 144
 A Spell that Uses Seaweed145
 A Spell to Cast on a Beach146
 A Spell that Banishes Poverty147
 A Spell that Reflects the Moon’s Power 148
 A Coin Spell to Bring Wealth149
 A Spell that Asks for Prosperity150
 Spells for Job Seekers 151
 A Spell for Those with Interviews in the Offing153
 A Spell to Make that Dream Job Yours 154
 A Spell that’s Worth the Wait 156
 A Spell to Get the Right Job for You158
viii
 The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell to Get a Career Moving159
 A Spell to Cast on the New Moon160
 A Spell to Make a Job Opportunity Come Knocking 
at Your Door 162
 A Miscellany of Spells 163
 A Spell to Counter Another’s Magic 165
 A Spell to Say Thank You166
 A Spell to Give Advice 167
 A Spell to Encourage Self-Esteem168
 A Spell to Ask for Courage 170
 A Spell for Those Seeking Forgiveness 171
 A Spell to Bless a New House 172
 A Spell for Those Keen to Make a Move 174
 A Spell for Nervous Travellers 176
 A Spell for the Businessperson177
 A Spell to Inspire You178
 A Spell that Has Inspired Many Others 179
 A Spell to Promote Peace 180
 A Spell for Smudgers 181
 A Spell to Return Unwanted Attention182
 A Spell to See a Rival on Their Way183
 A Spell to Say,‘No Thanks!’– I 184
 A Spell to Say,‘No Thanks!’– II 185
 A Spell to Stop Tongues Wagging186
 A Spell to Solve Problems 187
 A Spell to Recover Something that has Been Mislaid188
 A Spell to Cast When a Pet Dies 189
 A Spell for Those Who Are Lonely190
 A Spell to Ask for Whatever You Want 192
 A Spell to Ask for Luck193
 A Spell to Cast When You Feel Threatened194
 A Spell to Ask for Kindness 196
 A Spell that Asks the Leaves 197
 A Spell for Cat Lovers 198
 A Blessing200
1
 y y
 y y
 Introduction

3
 Introduction y y
 y y
 The Oxford English Dictionary defines magic as ‘(1) The art that,
 by use of spells, supposedly invokes supernatural powers to
 influence events. (2) Sorcery. (3) The practice of this art.’ And it
 defines a spell as ‘(1) a verbal formula considered as having magical
 force.(2) Any influence that can control the mind or character.’
 There is little with which those who weave magic spells today can argue
 about these definitions.The word sorcery,perhaps.To anyone who has
 seen Walt Disney’s delightful The Sorcerer’s Apprentice, the word
 probably conjures up an image of a desperate Mickey Mouse ignoring
 his forbidding and formidable master’s instructions and getting into all
 sorts of trouble.What lingers in the mind is the unforgettable image of
 the sorcerer’s shadow,cast on the wall of a spiral staircase,winding his
 way down to his workroom.
 That apart,the only other word in the dictionary definition with which
 one can take issue is ‘supernatural’. In the past, certainly, and maybe
 today in developing parts of the world,superstitious people continue to
 believe in the supernatural powers of their wise men.
 Had the compilers dropped the ‘super’ from ‘supernatural’ and deleted
 the word, ‘supposedly’ they would have come up with the perfect
 definition of modern magic: ‘The art that, by use of spells, invokes
 natural powers (the power of nature may be better) to influence events’.
 Old wizard with potion
4
 The same dictionary defines witch as ‘a person,usually a woman,who
 practises or professes to practise magic or sorcery (there’s that mental
 picture again) especially black magic,or is believed to have dealings with
 the devil.’
 There is little to quibble with here.Delete the reference to black magic
 and accept the fact that in the past witches were believed to be in league
 with the devil and we have a perfectly acceptable definition of witch.We
 could also delete the reference to women, and that done we have a
 perfectly acceptable description of what a witch is – a person who
 practises or professes to practise magic.
 The main purpose of this book is to explain what modern-day witchcraft
 is and to tell how anyone with a belief in the power of nature can draw
 on that power to weave spells that bring good into a life,be it the spell
 caster’s or someone else’s.
 We will look briefly at the history of witchcraft, how it came to be
 regarded as a black art and how it was ‘reborn’ during the last century as
 the art of Wiccan.
 Why the quotation marks around ‘reborn’? Witchcraft never really died
 out.Because of the reputation it gained for devil worship and because of
 the scepticism in which it was held, it was driven underground.But as
 Three witches by cauldron
 Introduction
 y
 y y
 y
y
 Introduction
 y
 the Industrial Revolution came and went and people turned to science to
 solve many of their problems, the practice of turning to nature to solve
 these problems went on all over the ‘civilized’ world. So it was not
 strictly reborn: ‘resurfaced’ would be a better word.
 We will look briefly at witchcraft around the world.
 We will explain as many aspects of modern-day witchcraft as is possible
 within the confines of these pages! And in laying down how to use
 magic, and how to cast many spells that have proved effective for many
 witches, we hope to banish much of the scepticism in which this ancient
 art continues to be held.
 Of course there is a lot of hocus-pocus but at its heart, 21st-century
 witchcraft holds undoubted truths and powers that anyone who comes
 to believe in them can draw on and use for the good of all.
 It should be pointed out that casting spells is an intensely personal thing.
 What worked wonderfully well for one magicmaker may not be quite so
 powerful in the hands of another. If a spell calls for a particular essential
 oil and experience shows that an alternative works better, then it is
 usually quite in order to substitute the one for the other.
 Efficient spell casters keep a record in their Book of Shadows, or
 grimoire, of every spell they cast and when they cast it.
 Another thing that should be pointed out is that it takes time for a spell
 to work, so don't expect immediate results – at least not most of the
 time.
 One change that will happen quickly, though, is one that happens inside
 you. In putting yourself more in tune with nature, with the flow of the
 seasons, the cycles of the moon and all the other wonders that are there
 to be appreciated you will soon become a more relaxed and more
 complete person.
 The benefit can go deeper. Many spell casters use vizualizing techniques
 to help them with their magic. But it is not just in their magic that the
 benefits are felt – these techniques can be used at any time, in any
 circumstance where it is necessary to clear the mind and focus it
 properly: a great asset in the modern, competitive workplace.
 And in casting spells to create and spread (for want of a better word)
 ‘goodness’ – be it in matters of health, wealth or happiness – spell
 weavers can smile on themselves, which, as long as smugness or
 sanctimony are not allowed to creep in, is beneficial to the magic
maker’s own health and happiness.
 A caveat! Spells should never be cast for nefarious purposes – to bring
 bad luck to someone or to get revenge for an ill-thought action by
 another. Witches believe that what goes out comes back, not once, but
 three times! Be warned.
 y
 5
 y

7
 y y
 y y
 Witchcraft Past and Present

y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 The word ‘magic’ comes to us from ‘magea’, the Greek word which itself
 derives from ‘magoi’. The Magoi were a caste of Persian priests who
 studied astrology and practised divination.
 It was not just in Persia (modern-day Iran) that these arts were practised
 thousands of years ago. All over the world, in every primitive society,
 men and women looked to the stars for guidance and the spirit world for
 inspiration. These our ancestors worshipped their gods who, they
 believed, looked after the spirits of those who had died and gone to live
 in the spirit world. In most, if not all, of these societies there was one
 person, usually a man, who was regarded by the others as being able to
 communicate with ancestral spirits. Today, we call such a person ‘the
 shaman’. There are many parts of the developing world in which the
 shaman continues to play a major role in small communities.
 As part of his (or very occasionally her) role, the shaman performed
 rituals and made magic. Rituals help to demarcate the ordinary and the
 extraordinary, focusing attention on aspects of the cosmic process, which
 were believed to control every aspect of life. Magic was an integral part
 of these rituals and it is fair to say that some magical elements survive
 in the religions of today and that most of these religions have their roots
 in some aspect of shamanic practice. As an example of the former, some
 Roman Catholics believe that during the Mass, consecrated wine turns
 into the blood of Christ and bread into His body (although the majority
 have now come to see the bread and the wine as symbolic rather than
 actual). And to exemplify the latter, Sufis believe that in entering a state
 of ecstasy brought about by intense physical exercise, their holy men
 can communicate with their god.
 Celestial dancers, detail, Mount Abu India
 y
 9
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 As ‘civilization’ dawned, first, according to archaeological evidence, in
 Mesopotamia and from there spread east into India and west into Egypt,
 religions developed in which magic played a central part, and both magic
 and religion depend on ritual to maintain cosmic order. The religions of
 Ancient Egypt, of Classical Greece and Ancient Rome, those of the Celtic
 world and the Scandinavian countries, all had magic in some form at
 their roots.
 Magic has no one homeland, but Ancient Egypt can be said to be its
 cradle. There it was believed that the sun god Ra died in the western sky
 every night to spend the hours of darkness in the underworld and to be
 magically reborn every morning in the eastern sky. Many later
 magicians believe that nine-tenths of the world’s magic comes from
 Egypt and the Old Testament depicts Egyptian magicians as so powerful
 that they could reproduce the magic that Moses used to convince the
 Pharaoh to allow his people to leave Egypt.
 In Ancient Egypt, magic was known as ‘hike’, which was a spoken
 formula that had to be reproduced exactly as prescribed if it was to work,
 and an act or gesture that had to be performed at a particular time and
 place and under special conditions and position. The Egyptians believed
 that two things that had been connected could continue to react on each
 Queen offers vases to Goddess Hathor
 y
 10
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 other even when separated and that like has the power to affect like.
 Thus, a burn could be cured by the recitation of the words used by Isis
 over her son Horus when he was once burned, and that one may cause
 one’s enemies pain by mistreating a wax image of them. From these and
 similar conceptions arose the belief in protective amulets which assumed
 huge importance for both the living and the dead.
 Egypt was an extremely stratified society, in which everyone knew their
 place, but there was no professional class of magicians – indeed, there
 was not even a general word for magician. Magic was the domain of
 priests and others who studied sacred books. But magic on a small,
 personal scale was within the reach of anyone who was willing to
 observe the conditions laid down, and judging from tomb paintings and
 papyri that have survived the many thousand years that have passed,
 magic played a very large part in everyday life. There are records of
 spells being cast to escape death, to drive out disease, to avert the evil
 eye, to cure snakebite, to drive out rats from a barn and to prevent the
 approach of a storm. There was even a spell to secure the various
 advantages summed up in the phrase, ‘to be blessed every day’.
 In the Graeco-Roman world, the gods were duly worshipped and tales of
 them looking down from where they lived and using their magic powers
 to help those whom they favoured and hinder those whom they frowned
 upon became part of common belief. And the same can be said of the
 Germanic and Scandinavian people.
 All of these peoples honoured the same things – rivers, trees, plants,
 animals, the wind and the rain, the sun and the moon. But perhaps it was
 for pagan Celts that they played the most important part in religious
 ritual, although little is known about the Celts for they left no written
 records and archaeological records of them are scant.A number of votive
 sites have been found, suggesting that religious rites were performed at
 sites of natural significance – on the banks of important rivers, in
 clearings in woods and on the tops of hills and mountains.
 Paganism
 It is the oral rather than the written tradition that makes many people
 believe that nature played a significant role in Celtic religious ritual and
 it is this oral tradition that suggests to many that modern witchcraft has
 Celtic roots. Away from the world of fairy tales and wicked witches,
 modern magic and its spells have their roots in Celtic times – 700
 BC–AD 100. The deeply spiritual Celts were artistic, musical, fine
 farmers and brave warriors, feared by their adversaries. As pantheists,
 they honoured the ‘Divine Creator of all Nature’ and worshipped the
 ‘One Creative Life Source’ in all its many aspects. They believed that
 after they died they went to ‘Summerland’ where they rested and
 awaited new birth on Earth.
 Celtic rites and rituals (the names of which will be familiar to those who
 y
 11
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 Celtic design
 Animate Celtic circle
 study witchcraft today) were supervised by the Druids (the word
 translates from the Celtic phrase for ‘knowing the oak tree’). It is
 believed that it took twenty years of hard study to become a Druid.
 Druids were regarded not just as priests: they were judges, teachers,
 astrologers, healers, bards and ambassadors, passing from one warring
 tribe to another to settle disputes.
 Nature and the passing seasons governed the Celts’ religious year.At the
 end of summer, they celebrated Samhain – the final harvest of the year,
 which marked their New Year. This was the time when they honoured
 their ancestors, their loved ones who were resting in Summerland. Many
 of the customs that we now follow at Hallowe’en have come to us from
 the Celts’ Samhain rites and rituals.
 Samhain was followed by the Winter Solstice, the annual rebirth of the
 sun, which the Celts celebrated as jovially as we celebrate Christmas
 today, and in some respects in not dissimilar fashion!
 The time when spring was just around the corner and when domestic
 animals were about to drop their young was called Imbolg, followed
 shortly afterwards by the Spring Equinox and Beltane – both of which
 were regarded as fertility festivals.
 Lughnassa, the Summer Solstice and another harvest festival, celebrated
 the sun’s glory and the power of nature. It was now that the sacred
 y
 12
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 mistletoe used by Celtic priests was harvested, cut down with a golden
 sickle from the oak trees on which it grew and caught in a white cloth so
 it would never fall to the ground.
 The Autumn Equinox, or Mabon, was the final harvest festival of the
 year.
 These religious beliefs and practices grew into what later became known
 as ‘paganism’. The word derives from the Latin for ‘country-dweller’,
 and as the wheels of the year went round and round, paganism’s beliefs
 and Druid rituals blended with the ways of others and such practices as
 concocting lotions and potions, performing works of magic and casting
 spells developed.
 Mother Shipton 16th
century woodcut
 The Coming of the Bad Times
 Further south, Rome was fast becoming the dominant power in Europe
 and as its empire spread north into and beyond the Alps, the number of
 Druids dwindled as the conquering armies brought their own ways and
 beliefs which spread far and wide.
 Around 2,000 years ago, in Palestine, the Christian religion was born.
 Like those who followed the Jewish faith, Christians believed in one god.
 The main difference between the two faiths being that while many Jews
 y
 13
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 14
 came to believe that Jesus Christ was a prophet, followers of Christ
 believed that he was the son of God and part of the ‘Holy Trinity’ a triad
 made up of God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Ghost.
 Christians believed that the way to communicate with God was through
 Jesus Christ.
 The Christian faith spread from Palestine, eastwards into Europe and in
 AD 317, the Emperor Constantine declared it to be the official religion
 of the Roman Empire. All over Europe old gods were banished and the
 new religion imposed in their place.
 Of course, followers of the old ways persisted with their traditions,
 despite the fact that it was not uncommon for the priests, including the
 Druids, to whom people looked for spiritual leadership, to be persecuted
 and in some cases put to death. But old traditions die hard and they
 continued to be handed down from generation to generation.
 Two hundred years later, Pope Gregory I (540-604) did a great deal to
 consolidate the power of the Catholic faith. Tens of thousands of people
 were baptized into it, forswearing their old ways and giving themselves
 to Rome. Gregory was cunning. He realized that people are unwilling to
 change their ways. He saw that they would continue to gather to honour
 the one god in places where they, and their fathers, and their fathers
 before them had gathered to worship the old gods and perform the
 rituals and ceremonies attendant with traditional worship. So wherever
 it was possible, he decreed that churches be built on the sites of existing
 pagan temples.
 Pagans believed in an entity called ‘The Great All’ who was formed of
 ‘The God’ and ‘The Goddess’. Sites dedicated to The Lord and The Lady
 were common, and when churches were built on these sites, they were
 often dedicated to The Virgin Mary and called ‘The Church of Our Lady’– ‘Our Lady’ being another name for the Holy Virgin.
 In simple ways like this, the old ways persisted.
 In any organization, the larger it grows, the more difficult it becomes to
 control. So it was with the Catholic Church. Centralized in Rome but
 spreading north to Britain, west into present-day Spain and Portugal and
 east into Greece, it was hard for the Pope in the Vatican to stop variations
 in doctrine and ritual creeping in. To discourage this, inquisitors were
 employed to search out Christians whose beliefs and practices were not
 in line with official dogma.Anyone who did not follow the true path was
 branded heretic and if they did not immediately recant when the
 accusation had been made, were imprisoned and in some cases put to
 death.
 An Infamous Bull
 In 1484, Pope Innocent VIII issued a papal bull concerning the practice of
 witchcraft. He was not the first to do so: several of his predecessors had
 y
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 written on the subject and what should be done about it. Innocent’s was
 different in that it was much more widely read than earlier ones. Thanks
 to the European invention of movable-type printing by Johannes
 Gutenberg around 1432 (it had been used in China many centuries
 earlier) it was easy for the Church to issue many copies of Innocent’s
 bull.Without it, each copy would have had to be laboriously handwritten
 by monks.
 All over Europe, priests read that clergy and laymen and women were
 not treating the threat posed by witchcraft seriously enough. Innocent
 insisted that it was the duty of every Roman Catholic (and that meant
 almost everyone, for the Church was so powerful) to help his inquisitors
 search out witches.
 While it is true that there were men and women who were practising
 witchcraft as a black art – worshipping Satan and weaving malevolent
 spells – most of the people who came under the inquisitors’ suspicious
 eyes were innocent men and women. They were people who believed
 that remedies that had been handed down from generation to generation
 worked. They were often country people who were more in tune with
 the forces of nature than their urban cousins. It is more than possible, in
 fact it is almost certain, that some of these folk remedies and the way
 that nature’s powers were harnessed were survivals of Druid customs
 and rituals.
 Innocent’s bull encouraged two monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jakob
 Sprenger to publish the Malleus Malleficarum, or Witche’s Hammer,
 which was essentially a witch-hunter’s manual. It explained why
 witchcraft was such a terrible thing, why it was the duty of all good
 Catholics to stamp it out and how to tell if someone was practising the
 black arts.
 In their rant against witchcraft, Kramer and Sprenger, who were
 inquisitors themselves, list the types of witch. They accused witches of
 having sexual relationships with the Devil and working with him to
 spread his dark ways.
 The book detailed how a trial should proceed, beginning with a notice
 that was to be fixed to the walls of the parish church (or town hall). It
 was worded:
 Whereas we, the Vicar of . . . do endeavour with all our might
 and strive to preserve the Christian people entrusted to us in unity
 and happiness of the Catholic Faith and to keep them far removed
 from every plague of abominable heresy . . .
 Therefore, we the aforesaid Judge to whose office it belongs, to the
 glory and honour of the worshipful name of Jesus Christ and for
 the exaltation of the Holy Orthodox Faith, and for the putting
 down of the abomination of heresy especially in all witches in
 general and in each one severally of whatever condition.
 y
 15
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 The book went on to inform on how proceedings should be initiated
 against alleged witches; the manner in which they should be arrested;
 how witnesses should be questioned; the use of torture; and the sentence.
 Judges were warned not to touch an accused person with their bare
 hands and to wear a bag around their neck containing salt that had been
 consecrated on Palm Sunday. In the same bag there should be herbs,
 similarly blessed and enclosed in consecrated wax. Witches should be led
 backwards into the court and if the judge had to approach the suspect he
 must first cross himself and approach her ‘manfully’. In this way, the
 two monks wrote,‘with God’s help the power of that old Serpent will be
 broken.’ 
The Witch-Hunts
 The book led to thousands of men and women being accused of
 witchcraft all over Europe and, later, European colonies in the New
 World. Torture was often used to force a confession out of an innocent
 person. Some were deprived of sleep and became so disorientated that
 when they came to stand trial they were in no state to argue their
 innocence. Others were tortured in more physically painful ways. In
 some parts of Europe the ‘strappado’ was used. This hideous machine
 was a sort of pulley that raised an accused person off the floor and held
 him or her hanging by their  arms , feet off the ground, the weight of the
 Satan Chained
 y
 16
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 body dislocating the arms and causing terrible pain. In other places, the
 accused was subject to torture by instruments of compression 
thumbscrews, leg screws and head clamps.
 In Germany, suspect witches were made to sit on the ‘witches’ chair’ – a
 metal seat below which a fire was lit! In Scotland, confessions were
 forced out of suspects by an instrument called ‘the bootes’ which
 ‘chrushte the legges and beaten them together as small as micht be’ and
 ‘made the bones and flesh so bruised, that the blud and marrow sputed
 forth in great abundance.’
 Almost inevitably the accused confessed and was sentenced to death.
 Some did not even get the ‘opportunity’ to stand trial and plead their
 innocence in whatever mental or physical state they may have been in.
 ‘Swimming the witch’ was widely practised in several parts of Europe.
 The suspect’s ankles were bound to the wrists and he or she was thrown
 into water. If they sank, they were innocent: if they floated then
 witchcraft was confirmed and sentence duly pronounced.
 In Scotland, suspect witches were pricked for the ‘Devil’s mark’ – a spot
 where no pain was felt. If such a spot was found it marked the place
 where the Devil had consummated a pact with the accused.
 The fact that most people accused of witchcraft were innocent did not
 deter those who searched them out. Witchcraft was thought to be the
 most heinous of all crimes because it represented those who were
 working against society in general and God in particular. Those who
 sought it out were acting on God’s behalf and on behalf of their monarch
 who ruled by divine authority.
 Witch-hunting was more intense on mainland Europe than in the
 British Isles, especially in England where the Witchcraft Act was passed
 in 1563, giving the State rather than the Church the responsibility of
 seeking out and punishing men and women who practised the black art.
 There were probably less than 5,000 trials, less than half of which
 resulted in the accused being executed.
 Two of those who came under the scrutiny of the court were Elizabeth
 Francis and Agnes Waterhouse. Elizabeth Francis was tried for
 bewitching a child and making her ill. She told her judges that her
 grandmother had introduced her to witchcraft when she was twelve.The
 cat, she told her accusers, had helped Elizabeth become rich and killed her
 lover when he refused to marry her. She confessed to allowing the Devil
 to kill three of her parish priest’s pigs, to drown a neighbour’s cow and
 to slaughter three of another neighbour’s geese. More seriously to
 modern eyes, she confessed to killing her husband: but it was for
 witchcraft as well as murder that she was hanged.
 Agnes Waterhouse was lucky. She was accused of keeping a toad as her
 familiar – the supernatural spirit who takes the shape of an animal and
 assists a witch in her magic – and using it to bewitch a child who refused
 y
 17
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 her request for bread and cheese. Fortunately for Waterhouse, the court
 accepted that the charges against her were based on the spiteful fantasies
 of an untrustworthy child and the charges against her were dropped.
 The Salem Witch Trials
 The 1563 Act and a subsequent one passed in 1600, after James VI of
 Scotland had acceded to the English throne as James I, were in force not
 just throughout the British Isles but in the colonies in North America. It
 was there that the spiteful accusations of not one but three children led
 to perhaps the most famous witchcraft trials of all time.
 It seems that, to get themselves out of trouble, the daughter of the
 minister and his two nieces accused their Caribbean slave, Tabita, and
 two others, Sarah Good and Sarah Osborne, of making them possessed
 by the Devil. When brought before the court to give evidence, the girls
 fell into (probably) self-induced fits – evidence that the Devil was within
 them – and the three unfortunate women were found guilty.
 In the hysteria that followed, innocent men and women in the town and
 surrounding area found themselves accused of being in league with the
 Devil and forced to face their accusers in court. The first trial had set the
 course for all subsequent ones.The accused were presumed guilty, unless
 the townspeople could be convinced otherwise. Fortunately many were
 able to convince the court that the charges against them were based on
 little more than ill-founded, spiteful gossip. But several were not so
 lucky and were executed for their supposed crimes. Execution was
 mostly by hanging, but one man was sentenced to death by being
 crushed by boulders! 
The Dawn of a New Age
 With the gradual emergence of scientific thinking in the 18th century
 and the emergence of rational thinking in Europe, witchcraft became
 widely seen as little more than superstitious nonsense and eventually,
 witch-hunts came to an end.The last person to be convicted of witchcraft
 in England was Jane Wenham, in 1712. The hunts lasted longer on
 mainland Europe where an unfortunate Polish woman swung her way
 into history when she was hanged for witchcraft in 1782 – the last
 officially sanctioned execution for witchcraft on record.
 Witchcraft ceased to be a crime – or at least, where it remained one in
 the statute books, the laws against it fell into disuse. But despite the fact
 that logical thought was dispelling the ancient art as superstitious
 nonsense, the old ways did persist. All over the world either on their
 own, or in groups, or covens, men and women carried on making magic
 as their ancestors had done since the dawn of human civilization.
 18
 y
 Among them was a woman called Margaret Murray, an anthropologist
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 by profession and an Egyptologist by passion. Her book, The Witch-Cult
 in Western Europe, published in 1921, stated that the victims of the
 witch-hunts were practising an ancient religion: paganism. She believed
 that a supreme deity had been worshipped and that he had taken the
 place in pagan ritual of what Murray called ‘The Mother Goddess’.
 Murray, who claimed that Joan of Arc had been a member of this pre
Christian religion, was dismissed as a crank. But her book was read by
 many, including plantation-owner Gerald Gardner who became
 interested in magic when he was working in Malaya. He retired to
 London in 1936 and moved to the New Forest in Hampshire in 1938
 where he joined the Rosicurians, a secret society formed in the 15th
 century to study the occult. In 1939 he claimed that a witch whom he
 called ‘Old Dorothy’ initiated him into a local coven.
 y
 19
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 The Wiccan Way
 y
 In 1954, Gerald Gardner published Witchcraft Today in which he
 advocated the use of old, long-established rituals and introduced many
 of his own devising. Gardner venerated The Goddess and women in
 general. He believed in the power of nature and that men and women
 could tune into it to alter the course of things. Gardner’s work has,
 according to several anthropologists, three direct links to ancient
 paganism – the use of high magic, the use of plants and herbs in spells,
 and the involvement of folk rites and customs to manipulate the
 powers of nature.
 Gardner’s work led to a revival in interest of the traditions of
 witchcraft, not just in Britain, and he is credited by many as being the
 founder of what has become an officially recognized new religion 
Wicca. Wicca honours The God and The Goddess (their names vary
 from group to group) as the two main deities and followers worship
 them in their rites and rituals.
 Wicca spread and as it did, different groups developed their own rites
 and rituals. In England, Celtic practices and Gardnerian belief are
 blended together in the form of what has come to be known as British
 Traditional Witchcraft. In the United States, where Gardner’s work was
 introduced and developed by Raymond Buckland, Wicca has now
 become an officially recognized religion.
 Wicca has followers all over the world, wherever people feel a need to
 turn from traditional religions and return to a more Earth-based one.
 They practise various forms of white magic and perform rituals to
 attune themselves with the natural rhythm of life forces, particularly
 those marked by the phases of the moon and the four seasons.
 Wiccans belong to a wider movement – neo-paganism, which as the
 name suggests has its roots in Celtic paganism. But not all neo-pagans
 are Wiccans: the term also refers to Druidism, New Age, shamanism,
 Ceremonial Magick, the occult sciences, voodoo and the revival of any
 pre-Christian mystery tradition.
 The Wiccan Rede
 Wiccans live by the Wiccan Rede, a simple benevolent moral code that
 holds that as long as no one is harmed, ‘do what thy wilt’. One popular
 version of the Rede, taught to her pupils by Dorothy Morrison, a
 leading American Wiccan and High Priestess of the Georgian Tradition,
 goes as follows:
 y
 20
 y
21
 Witchcraft Past and Present y y
 y y
 Bide the Wiccan Law you must,
 In perfect love and perfect trust.
 (Keep the laws of Wicca lovingly and with perfect trust.)
 Live and let live:
 Fairly take and fairly give.
 (Treat both nature and people as you would like to be treated.)
 Cast the circle thrice about,
 To keep the evil spirits out.
 (When making magic,Wiccans usually cast a circle around 
themselves.They do this three times because the number three 
stands for the three phases of The Lord and The Lady.)
 To bind the spell every time,
 Let the spell be spake in rhyme.
 (By speaking their spells in rhyme,witches believe it gives the 
conscious mind something to think about,while the unconscious 
mind taps into the energy of nature and the magic is done.)
 Soft of eye and light of touch
 Speak little and listen much.
 (Wise magic makers are gentle.They listen and learn.)
Deasil go by the waxing moon,
 Sing and dance the Witches’ Rune.
 (When the moon is waxing – moving from slim crescent to 
plump fullness,it is the time to move round the ritual 
circle clockwise as this draws in good things.)
 Widdershins go when the moon doth wane,
 And werewolves howl by the dream wolfsbane.
 (When the moon is waning is the time to move round the circle
 anti-clockwise as this takes away negativity.Wolfbane’s toxicity
 makes it a feared plant.)
 When the Lady’s moon is new
 Kiss thy hand to Her times two.
 (Welcome the new moon – just visible in the sky after being dark
 for three nights – welcome her by kissing the index and middle
 finger twice.)
 When the moon rides at her peak,
 Then your heart’s desire speak.
 (When the moon is full,you can ask her for anything as she will
 grant the heart’s desire.)
 Heed the north wind’s mighty gale,
 Lock the door and drop the sail.
 When the wind comes from the south,
 Love will kiss thee on the mouth.
 When the wind blows from the east,
 Expect the new and set the feast
 When the west wind blows o’er thee,
 The departed spirits restless be.
 22
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 y y
 y
23
 Witchcraft Past and Present y y
 y y
 (These lines refer to the elements with the four directions.)
 Nine woods in the cauldron go,
 Burn them fast and burn them slow
 Elder the Lady’s tree.
 Burn it not,or cursed be.
 (There are nine different magical woods burned in the witch’s
 cauldron during various rituals – apple,birch, fir,hawthorn,oak,
 rowan,vine and willow.Elder wood is never burned because the tree
 is sacred to The Lady.)
 When the Wheel begins a turn,
 Let the Beltane fires burn
 When the Wheel hath turned to Yule,
 Light the log and let Pan rule.
 (This refers to the cycle of the year.Beltane,the spring sabbath and
 Yule the winter one,sit at opposite ends of the wheel of the year.)
 Heed ye flower,bush and tree,
 And by the Blessed Lady be!
 (For the Lady’s sake,nurture and respect nature.)
 Where the rippling waters flow,
 Cast a stone and truth you’ll know.
 (Actions spread,like the ripples caused by a stone cast on 
the water,affecting everyone and everything around.)
 Whenever you do have a need,
 Harken not to others’ greed.
 (Never take money in exchange for using magical power.)
24
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 y y
 y
 With the fool no seasons spend,
 Nor be counted as his friend.
 (Others associate you with the company you keep.If you mix with
 fools,that’s how you’ll be regarded.)
 Merry meet and merry part,
 Bright the cheeks and warm the heart.
 (The company of friends is the best company there is.)
 Mind the threefold law you should,
 Three times bad and three times good.
 (Always remember that whatever you do,good or bad,comes back
 to you three times.)
 When misfortune is enow.
 Wear the blue star on your brow.
 (When trouble beckons, visualize a blue pentagram on your
 forehead for protection.)
 True in love ever be.
 Unless thy love is false to thee.
 (Always be loyal in love:but if you are let down,move on.)
 Eight words the Wiccan Rede fulfil,
 ‘And it harm none,do what ye will’.
 (Feel free to do whatever takes your fancy,as long as in doing so,no
 one is harmed.)
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 A Principled Group of People
 When most people think of spells they think of witches: and when most
 people think of witches they think of gnarled old crones casting evil
 spells. For centuries, writers, and later filmmakers and television
 producers, perpetuated this view, although to be fair there were movies
 such as The Witches of Eastwick and television series such as Bewitched
 and Sabrina, the Teenage Witch that showed witches in a more light
hearted manner.
 To improve the witch’s image, in 1974, the American Council of Witches
 set out to remedy this. The Chairman of the Council, Carl Llewellyn
 Weschcke, drafted thirteen principles of Wiccan belief to define Wicca
 and to help non-believers to realize that those who followed its ways
 were far from the wicked witches of the popular imagination.
 These principles are:
 1. We practise rites to attune ourselves with the natural rhythm of life
 forces marked by the phases of the moon and seasonal quarters and
 cross-quarters.
 2. We recognize that our intelligence gives us a unique responsibility
 toward our environment.We seek to live in harmony with nature, in
 ecological balance, offering fulfilment to life and consciousness
 within an evolutionary concept.
 3. We acknowledge a depth of power far greater than is apparent to the
 average person. Because it is far greater, it is sometimes called
 ‘supernatural’ but we see it as lying within that which is naturally
 potential to all.
 4. We conceive of the Creative Power in the Universe as manifesting
 through polarity – as masculine and feminine – and that this
 Creative Power lives in all people and functions through the
 interaction of the masculine and feminine. We value neither above
 the other, knowing each to be supportive of the other. We value sex
 as pleasure, as the symbol and embodiment of life, and as one of the
 sources of energies used in magical practice and religious worship.
 5. We recognize both outer worlds and inner, psychological worlds and
 see in the interaction of these two dimensions the basis for
 paranormal phenomena and magical exercises. We neglect neither
 dimension for the other, seeing both as necessary for our fulfilment.
 6. We do not recognize any authoritarian hierarchy, but do honour
 those who teach, respect those who share their greater knowledge
 and wisdom, and acknowledge those who have courageously given of
 themselves in leadership.
 7. We see religion, magic and wisdom-in-living as being united in the
 way one views the world and lives within it – a worldview and
 philosophy of life that we identify as the Wiccan Way.
 y
 25
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 8. Calling oneself ‘witch’ does not make one a witch. But neither does
 the heredity itself, or the collecting of titles, degrees and initiations.
 Witches seek to control the forces within themselves that make life
 possible in order to live wisely and well, without harm to others, and
 in harmony with nature.
 9. We acknowledge that it is the affirmation and fulfilment of life, in a
 continuation of evolution and development of consciousness that
 gives meaning to the universe we know, and to our personal role
 within it.
 10. Our only animosity towards Christianity, or towards any other
 religion or philosophy of life is to the extent that its institutions have
 claimed to be ‘the only way’ and have sought to deny freedom to
 others and to suppress other ways of religious practice and belief.
 11. As (American) witches we are not threatened by debates on the
 history of the craft, the origins of various terms, the legitimacy of
 various aspects of different traditions. We are concerned with our
 present and our future.
 12. We do not accept the concept of ‘absolute evil’ nor do we worship any
 entity known as ‘Satan’ or ‘the Devil’ as defined by the Christian
 tradition. We do not seek power through the suffering of others, nor
 do we accept the concept that personal benefit can only be derived by
 denial to another.
 13. We acknowledge that we seek within nature for that which is
 contributory to our health and well-being.
 (with thanks to the Council of American Witches)
 Other Traditions
 As Wicca spread, various groups interpreted it in different ways. There
 are those, in Britain, who belong to the British Traditional Witchcraft
 movement, which blends together Gardnerian practices and beliefs with
 Celtic traditions. Others look to the Pictish tradition, which is based on
 Scottish witchcraft, focusing as it does on the magical energies of all
 aspects of nature with no emphasis (or very little) placed on religion.
 Witches who follow the Dianic tradition look to Diana, the Roman moon
 goddess and worship only the feminine aspect of The All.The movement
 encouraged feminism and is involved in feminist issues. Many exclude
 men altogether from their rituals.
 In some parts of Europe, a pre-Gardnerian form of Wicca is followed,
 sometimes called hereditary witchcraft. Membership is restricted to
 those who can trace their ancestry back to antecedents who followed
 ‘The Old Way’. Members are usually introduced to covens by family
 members, usually a parent or grandparent.
 y
 26
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 The Alexandra tradition, founded by Alexander Sanders in England in
 1963, puts a strong emphasis on Ceremonial Magik but is essentially
 Gardnerian in practice. One difference however is that followers of the
 Alexandra tradition perform their rituals either semi-clad or fully
 clothed. Gardnerian covens sometimes do their rituals naked, or skyclad.
 Celtic Wicca is based on the ancient Celtic pantheon and Druid rituals.
 Celtic Wiccans embrace ancient Irish myths and much of their magic is
 directed at natural healing.
 The Norse pantheon has its Wiccan followers who look to the magical
 customs and ancient myths of pre-Christian Iceland and Scandinavia for
 inspiration, while those whose ritual and magic is inspired by the gods
 and goddesses of Ancient Egypt are said to follow the Egyptian tradition.
 Low Magic and High Magic
 To be loved by a maiden
 To know all things past
 and future
 Kabbalistic letter squares
 used by Abramelin
 magicians
 Low magic, sometimes called natural magic, was widely practised in the
 Middle Ages and still is in some parts of the world. Also known as
 practical magic, it combines the arts of witchcraft, spell craft, hexcraft
 and voodoo, which utilize herbs, amulets, wax images and other simple
 objects along with visualization and incantations to bring about the
 desired result. It is the folk magic of less developed parts of the world
 where it is often done for a fee, and in the developed world it is the magic
 of many spell casters. In low magic, spells are cast for good or evil.
 High magic, or Ceremonial Magik, on the other hand is performed to
 bring about union with the divine. In high magic, the powers of nature,
 conceived of as being either angelic or Satanic, are controlled in
 conjunction with spirits, using words and the names of sacred gods.
 Typically, magic involves the use of elaborate rituals, the invocation of
 spirits (often in dramatic, theatrical fashion) and mystic sacraments.
 Practised since ancient times, Ceremonial Magic is mainly the domain of
 men seeking mystical power and enlightenment. Ceremonial Magic is
 still practised by those who adhere to Abramelin magic and the
 Kabbalah.
 Involving spirit communication, word magic and palindromic number
 squares, Abramelin magicians believe that the world was created and is
 maintained by demons whose work is directed by angelic spirits. The
 magicians believe that properly purified and using the correct prayers,
 formulas and tools, and with the help of the angels they can take control
 of the demons and bend them to their will.
 The Kabbalah is based on unusual interpretations of the Hebrew
 scriptures. Despite its appearance as an elaborate system of magic, it is
 actually a tool to allow the magician to achieve mystical union with God.
 The Kabbalah teaches that God is known by 72 different names and that
 the Universe is composed of four planes of being.There are several facets
 y
 27
 y
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 of the Kabbalah that make it compatible with the beliefs and practices of
 nature-orientated Wicca, but most Wiccans would find the monotheism
 and strict codes of behaviour imposed by Judaism, with which the
 Kabbalah is inextricably linked, hard to accept.
 Some Curious Beliefs
 Witchcraft, especially in its black magic form still exists in the beliefs of
 many African cultures and indigenous peoples around the world. In
 North America, for instance, the Navajo believe that witchcraft is an
 exclusively male practice, its initiates meeting at night to make magic,
 wearing nothing except a mask and jewellery. They sit among baskets of
 corpses and are said to ‘converse’ with dead women.
 Some African cultures hold that witches get together in cannibal covens.
 They meet, it is believed in some tribes in Guinea, in graveyards, sitting
 round a fire and feasting vampire-fashion off the blood of their victims.
 Witches have the ability to take a person’s soul and keep it until the
 victim dies. Witches here are believed to have made a pact with an evil
 spirit who grants them power that they exercise through a familiar, such
 as a dog, baboon or, as with witches in medieval Europe and 17th
century North America, a cat.
 The Zande, who live in the Congo area and some other central African
 peoples, believe that a witch’s power comes from his or her own body.
 They believe that the source of the capacity to cast evil spells is located
 in the witch’s stomach and that as the witch ages, so their power
 increases. The witch can activate this power simply by wishing someone
 ill but the spell is made stronger by the use of potions and powerful
 magic.
 In other parts of Africa, witches are thought to act unconsciously and
 might well be unaware of the ill that they cause until it is brought to
 their attention. Those who suffer at the hands of such a witch might
 have held that view until the witchcraft is turned in their direction.Then
 they are quick to change their minds and claim that the witchcraft was
 deliberate.
 Witchcraft is still blamed in some developing parts of the world for
 disease and disaster, some as major as a fatal landslide or a devastating
 flood which has serious consequences for many people, others as trivial
 as failure in an exam or performing badly at a job interview. In parts of
 Brazil, for example, where job loss is thought to be due to witchcraft,
 whoever suffered the loss participates in a ritual consultation with a
 shaman, who, of course, expects to be rewarded for his efforts!
 To be fair, many people who believe that witchcraft can be responsible
 for misfortunes do not lay the blame at its door every time misfortune
 strikes. If there is a logical explanation, it is often accepted: a badly built
 shelter that blows down in a gale was obviously not strong enough to
 y
 28
 y
29
 Witchcraft Past and Present y y
 y y
 withstand it.But if a seemingly well-built hut collapses for no apparent
 reason,then the blame may well be laid at witchcraft’s door.
 People in modern Africa and other areas where witchcraft is still part of
 everyday culture,usually also believe in local divinities and in the spirit
 world.If they are sick,they will often turn to conventional medicine to
 Shaman
y
 Witchcraft Past and Present
 y
 cure their physical symptoms while also looking to the local ‘witch
 doctor’ to explain and treat the hidden causes of the illness.The sick may
 wear amulets to protect them from illness, practice the divination
 advised by the witch doctor, and take the ‘medicine’ prescribed.
 Often when witchcraft is held to be responsible for misfortune the
 sufferer will try to discover the source. The bewitched might seek help
 from a diviner to establish the identity of the witch. The diviner may go
 into a trance and use a variety of props, often dice or animal bones, to do
 this. Among one African people, divination to find out a witch’s identity
 is by administering poison to a chicken and mentioning the name of the
 suspect. If the chicken dies, the suspect is innocent: if it lives, guilt is
 pronounced and the appropriate action taken.
 y
 30
 y
31
 y y
 y y
 The Basics of Tools and
 Rituals

y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 It isn’t necessary to belong to any group or coven or follow any
 particular path in order to cast spells and make magic. Joining a coven
 does, however, put one in contact with like-minded people and many
 who are initiated often find that they draw strength from fellow
 members so that when they then make magic on their own, it is more
 powerful and effective.
 Tools
 There are certain things that spell makers, whether they are working in
 a group or on their own need.The following list covers most of them: but
 would-be weavers of magic who do not have them don’t have to rush and
 get them all before starting to cast spells. You can improvise and as long
 as everything used has been properly consecrated, spells should not be
 any less effective.
 An altar is simply a special area for magic.They may be ornately carved,
 beautifully crafted works of art; they may be any specially consecrated
 tabletop on which you work when preparing spells and on which you
 keep many of the tools that you use – a chalice, for example, candles or
 y
 33
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 an athame. Altars are central to Wiccan ritual and many non-Wiccan
 spell casters use them, too. The shape and location are irrelevant – they
 can be round or square, indoors or outdoors: all a spell caster has to do to
 create an altar is ritually cleanse and consecrate it in exactly the same
 way as the other tools. That done, the altar is created.
 Altars are usually candlelit and in Wiccan practice there are usually two
 special candles – one gold to represent the Lord and the sun, and a silver
 one standing for the Lady and the moon. Among the objects found on
 most altars are a bowl of salt and a bowl of water to represent these two
 elements, incense, an essential oil burner and many of the other things
 that are commonly used in making magic.
 Animal-headed god Anubis attending to dead man
 y
 34
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 Many spell makers like to have a variety of different coloured altar
 cloths so that they can be varied in accordance with the phase of the
 moon,the sabbath being celebrated and the spell being cast. Others make
 do with just the one, which they decorate with suitably coloured crystals,
 flowers and the other appropriate objects.
 Amulets are used to protect the spell caster from any evil influences that
 may be about. According to Pliny, the 1st-century Roman author, an
 amulet is ‘an object that protects a person from trouble’. They can be
 man-made, such as a horseshoe or a piece of jewellery decorated with a
 precious stone or made from a metal that corresponds to the wearer’s
 astrological sign, or naturally occurring, such as a rabbit’s foot, a seashell
 or a stone, again with astrological correspondences to the wearer.
 Ankh
 Scarab
 Eye of Horus
 Star of David
 In Mesopotamia, animal-shaped amulets were popular with Babylonians
 and Sumerians, especially for fertility, protection and strength. Cylinder
 seals made from precious or semi-precious stones engraved with prayers
 and religious scenes have been found dating back to 2500 BC. Later ones
 that have been unearthed include figures of male and female deities,
 reptiles and curious winged creatures, half man, half lion.
 In Ancient Egypt, numerous animal-headed gods prowled the pantheon:
 their sacred names and images were commonly inscribed on amulets,
 worn for protection or painted on the walls of tombs to protect the dead
 in the afterlife. Amulets that were blessed by Egyptian magicians were
 held in the highest regard and were believed to be particularly potent.
 The oldest Egyptian amulet is probably the ankh, which was normally
 fashioned out of wood, stone, metal or even wax. Symbolizing life, ankhs
 were sacred to all Egyptian deities. Known as ‘the Key to the Nile’ and
 to early Christians as an ‘ansated cross’, the ankh was believed to ensure
 the immortality of all the deities in the pantheon who were almost
 always depicted in Egyptian art as carrying it in their right hands.
 Composed of a cross (the male symbol) surmounted by an oval
 (symbolizing the female), the ankh represented the sacred union of God
 and Goddess whose marriage was said to take place every year at the
 source of the River Nile, just before the inundation that was so vital to
 Egyptian life.
 Other Egyptian amulets include: the scarab, which represented
 resurrection and the eternal life and was worn as a protection against all
 forms of evil; the Eye of Horus (or the udjat), which was worn for
 protection and also to promote good health and well-being; and the lute
shaped nefer, which bestowed physical strength, joy and youth on those
 who wore it.
 The Hebrews are known to have used a wide variety of amulets, the most
 famous of which is probably the Star of David, which actually pre-dates
 the Jewish faith and was used as a magical symbol in Egypt, Babylon and
 Assyria. To Jews, the six-pointed star is symbolic of their faith; to others
 it offered protection from enemies, lethal weapons and fire. The letters
 y
 35
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 of the Hebrew alphabet were regarded as amulets, for each of them was
 thought to contain its own magical powers. Other Hebrew amulets
 included bells to ward off evil spirits and the tzitzit, a sacred tassle worn
 on the robes of the High Priests.
 Natural amulets, a gift from Mother Nature to those who believe in
 their power include trees, plants, flowers, herbs, vegetables, stones
 (mundane, semi-precious and precious) – indeed anything that the
 wearer believes to be ‘lucky’.
 The athame is a double-edged ritual knife, about six inches long. It is
 usually blunt because the only thing it is used to cut is energy. In
 accordance with tradition, athames are black handled. Wiccans and other
 spell weavers use the athame to direct energy and to open and close the
 doorway to the spell caster's circle. If there is no athame, a sword, or a
 wand, a branch cut very gently from a tree and suitably consecrated, can
 be used in its place. Some Wiccans use two fingers for this purpose.
 Baskets are used for keeping together and for carrying into the circle
 many of the things needed in spell making.
 Bath salts and oils are usually added to a ritual bath, taken before
 starting to weave spells, to put the spell caster in a suitably relaxed frame
 of mind.
 A bell is often rung at the beginning of a ritual when calling the four
 quarters and at the end to tell the elements to return to their realms,
 after they have been thanked for their attendance at the ritual.
 The bolline is the knife traditionally used by witches. It normally has a
 white handle and a curved blade. It is used to cut plants and herbs, wands
 and the other things that need to be cut as part of making magic. When
 something has to be cut from a living plant it should be done very gently– indeed some Wiccans ask the plant’s permission before cutting and
 thank it for its generosity afterwards.
 The Book of Shadows, also know as a grimoire, is the journal in which
 witches keep a record of the spells they cast, the chants and invocations
 they use, the dreams they dream and other matters that are pertinent to
 their personal magic making.
 Bowls are very necessary items in the witch’s cupboard. One is used to
 keep salt and another for water but the efficient witch usually has
 several more to hand in case they are needed in a particular spell – to
 keep herbs in, for example.
 Broomsticks are usually the first thing that people think of when the
 word ‘witch’ is mentioned – and it is hard to stop a mental picture of a
 y
 36
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 black-robed crone zooming across the night sky coming to mind.
 Broomsticks are traditionally known as besoms in the world of witches
 and spell casters and are much more than a fantasy and imaginary mode
 of transport; they are used to sweep out negative influences from the
 area to be used for magic making.
 A burin is a sharp-pointed instrument for inscribing candles and other
 magical objects and is often more practical than a bolline, especially
 when inscribing candles.
 Candles are absolutely essential. It is almost impossible to make magic
 without one. They are used in literally thousands of spells. Efficient
 makers of magic ensure that they have a large store of them in all sizes
 and appropriate colours. Before they are used in magic making rituals,
 candles are often ‘dressed’ with essential oils and loaded with herbs to
 make them more powerful.
 Cauldrons, like broomsticks, are another thing that comes to mind on
 hearing the word ‘witch’. They are used to mix lotions and potions but
 they don’t have to be the round, black, mine-like thing that is associated
 with ‘hubble, bubble, toil and trouble’.Any suitable heatproof vessel will
 do as long as it has been properly consecrated.
 Chalices are used for drinking consecrated liquids during magic making,
 especially when more than one spell caster is present. Some people use
 elaborate, metal ones studded with semi-precious stones; others enjoy
 the simplicity of crystal or glass. It's a matter of personal choice.
 Charcoal is often used to burn incense. Herbs strewn over glowing
 charcoal are also a part of many spells. Like everything else it has to be
 consecrated before use. Efficient spell casters usually consecrate a large
 bag that they dip into when needed.
 Censers are used to burn incense. They are mounted on metal feet so
 that the heat of the burning charcoal will not damage the surface on
 which they rest.
 Compasses are used by practical witches to establish north, south, east
 and west – essential in traditional magic making if they are weaving
 their spells in unfamiliar territory!
 Cords are used to create magic circles in which to weave spells and also
 in spells that are cast to create binding magic.
 Crystals are used for the power they add to a spell and also for altar
 decoration. Every spell caster has his or her favourite one, which they
 know from experience works for them. Each crystal has its own power.
 y
 37
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 It’s a matter of finding out what works best for the individual.
 Essential oils are commonly used in spells on their own, to dress candles
 or are added to incense which is to be burned in the censer. Essential oils
 are powerful and should never be swallowed or, with one exception,
 rubbed directly on to the skin unless diluted in a suitable carrier oil such
 as almond. The exception is lavender, which is one of the most popular
 and is often drizzled into a ritual bath to add fragrance to the warm
 water. Pregnant women should be especially careful when using
 essential oils: some can cause adverse reactions that can affect the
 unborn child.
 Herbs are widely used when making magic. They can be easily obtained
 from shops and markets and many are just as easily grown in a garden
 or window box.Not only is this cheaper but when they are growing their
 pleasing smell wafts into the house when the wind is blowing in the
 right direction. Herbs can be strewn on glowing charcoal, added to
 smouldering incense or used to anoint candles. Herbs make wonderful
 charms carried in a handbag or wrapped in a piece of natural cloth and
 kept in a pocket.
 Incense is used in either powder, cone or stick form to represent the
 element of air. Traditionally it should be placed and burned on the east
 end of the witch’s altar.
 Pens are used for entering items in the Book of Shadows. Like
 everything else used in making magic, the spell should be consecrated
 before use. Some spell makers prefer a quill pen as they give a
 continuance of tradition from the days before fountain, ballpoint and
 felt-tip pens were invented.
 The pentagram, a five-pointed star, the sides of which are interwoven
 with one another, can be drawn without lifting pen from paper. A
 pentacle is a pentagram with a circle drawn round it. Both can be either
 physical, made of wood, metal, stone or clay, or imaginary. An object
 with an abstract pentacle or pentagram woven over it, or a physical one
 placed on it is protected against evil.
 The top point of the star represents the spirit, and is often coloured white
 or purple. Moving round clockwise, the next point represents air, which
 is associated with the colour yellow. Next comes earth, usually coloured
 green. Moving round, fire, coloured red in multicoloured pentagrams, is
 next. And lastly comes water, associated with the colour blue.
 Talismans have long been confused with amulets, but there are distinct
 differences between the two. Talismans are used as magical charms to
 attract wealth, happiness and harmony whereas amulets repel evil and
 protect those whom their power is directed from. Also, talismans are
 y
 38
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 prepared for a special reason while amulets serve a general purpose.
 Lastly, talismans are endowed with supernatural power. Like amulets,
 talismans can be worn as jewellery, carried in bags and used in rituals to
 encourage magic making to work. Their long history dates back
 thousands of years. The Egyptians used charms in their magic making
 and also in their funerary rites designed to guide the spirits safely across
 the threshold of death. According to long-held beliefs, talismans are said
 to lose their powers after a year and a day, but some people who believe
 in the powers of charms claim that a talisman is active for as many as
 nine years. Whichever, when the power with which a talisman has been
 charged has left it, it is buried in the earth or cast into the sea as a tribute
 to Mother Earth.
 A wand is to spell making as an egg is to an omelette, that is to say
 absolutely essential. It is used to draw magical symbols on the ground or
 in the air, to direct energy and call upon the power of The Lady. It can be
 made of crystal or cut, lovingly, from a tree. Some spell casters decorate
 their wands with signs of the rune, others insert a crystal into the point.
 The Elements and Other Powers
 According to the Ancient Greeks, the universe is made of four elements,
 earth, air, fire and water, and the non-material world by ether or spirit.
 These elements play a vital part in casting spells today. They are
 summoned to attend magic making rituals. They are usually called in
 along with the quarters when a circle is drawn. They can be summoned
 to stand outside and guard the circle or as witnesses to ritual and spells
 to be cast. It is not always necessary to summon all the elements: a spell
 caster weaving magic concerned with issues of sex, love or transfor
mation may only summon fire. If matters emotional and concerning
 adaptability were concerned, water would be summoned. Earth is called
 upon for its stability and potential for encouraging growth and birth, air
 for magic concerning commination or ideas.
 After a spell weaving ceremony is over, the elements are thanked for
 giving their blessing and adding their power to the magic that has been
 made.
 Spirit is the most esoteric, perceived, as it is, as an energy that is the
 driving force behind creation.
 Detail from The Universe
 and Man, 16th-century
 engraving
 Air is associated with communication, education, the
 intellect, wind and sound. It values anything new
 and untried and is always keen to learn. Yellow is
 the colour ascribed to air which, for the purpose of magic
 making,resides in the east.The zodiac signs associated with air are
 Aquarius, Libra and Gemini. Air is exciting.
 Fire fills us with passion that burns inside all of us, more fiercely in some
 y
 39
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 than in others. It is linked with courage and encourages risk and
 recklessness: once it has started it goes on until it has burnt itself out.
 Aries, Leo and Sagittarius are the fire signs. Fire is red in colour and
 south in its direction.
 Earth is associated with beauty, growth and nurturing abundance. It
 represents prosperity, wisdom and sensation. Earth is the element of our
 flesh and bones. It has qualities of steadfastness and dependability,
 endurance and protection. In the zodiac,Taurus,Virgo and Capricorn are
 all earth signs. Abiding in the north, earth is green in colour.
 y
 40
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 Water, blue in colour and west in direction, is associated with psychic
 energy, emotion, intuition, and the subconscious. It overcomes
 difficulties by flowing around them rather than confronting them, but it
 also has the power of erosion and the power to overcome all things.
 Those born under the water signs, Scorpio, Cancer and Pisces, share an
 insight into the ways of others and the ability to feel their joys and pains.
 Consecration
 Everything used in magic making must be suitably consecrated. This
 may be time-consuming at first, but it needs only be done once, for once
 consecrated an altar and the things on it remain so, unless another
 person touches them. If this does happen, whatever has been touched has
 to be reconsecrated as it will have picked up negative energies from the
 offender!
 Once the place where spells are to be cast has been selected, then is the
 time for consecration. A quiet space should be selected. It doesn’t matter
 if it is indoors or outdoors, as long as it is a place where work can be done
 and spells cast undisturbed. The space needs to be cleaned thoroughly.
 Traditionally a besom is used for this and the task is performed three
 times – once for the physical world, once for emotional cleaning and
 once to clean the spirit. When this has been done, it is usual to sprinkle
 water and salt around the area and to burn some incense.
 Now the work surface, or altar, is prepared. It can be a tray, a table, a
 dressing table or an ornately carved piece of furniture. It doesn’t matter,
 for in magic making it’s the thought that counts!
 On the altar there should be candles, including a silver one to represent
 The Lady and the moon, and a gold one to represent The Lord and the
 sun, and a pentagram, a censer, a bowl of water and a bowl of salt, an
 athame, a chalice, a bell and a wand. Also, crystals and other items that
 are going to be used regularly should be on the altar.
 Everything in place, the altar is then dedicated to whichever power is to
 be asked to bless the spells to be cast. Wiccans dedicate their altars to The
 Lord and Lady. Others with no particular belief apart from a deeply held
 conviction that the forces of nature can be summoned and used for the
 greater good, may choose to dedicate their altars simply to the Greater
 Good and the benefit of all.
 Traditionally, each of the four elements is then addressed. One way is to
 say to each in turn, 'Oh element * * * *. May all negative energies
 depart, leaving only the positive. This is my will. So be it.’ As the earth
 is addressed, a banishing earth pentacle is drawn over the bowl of salt on
 the altar. When the water is being addressed, a banishing water pentacle
 is drawn over the bowl of water. Similarly, a banishing fire pentacle is
 cast over the candles when fire is being addressed, and a banishing air
 one over the incense when it is air’s turn.
 y
 41
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 Now each altar instrument and everything to be used in ritual must be
 similarly consecrated. Each item should be presented to each of the
 elements in turn while an appropriate invocation to wash away negative
 energies, leaving only positive ones, is spoken.
 Non-traditionalists may simply focus their energies on each object in
 turn and visualize energy flowing into it, while asking the force to which
 they have dedicated the altar to bless it and any working that is to be
 done with it.
 Visualization plays an important part in spell weaving. Many spells call
 for the magic maker to visualize the object of the spell or the person who
 will, hopefully, benefit from the spell. There are many techniques that
 help those interested in visualization to develop the ability to vizualize
 and anyone who is serious about making magic would do well to study
 them and make himself or herself efficient in the practice. Practising
 may seem odd, at first, and novices often feel more than a little self
conscious, sitting alone in a quiet room focusing energies on seeing
 oneself being somewhere else. But exercises such as the one that follows
 are well worth doing as they help to develop a skill that is very necessary
 in spell weaving.
 Light a candle in a darkened, draught-free room so that the flame can
 burn as steadily as possible. Sit as still as you can and gaze at the flame
 allowing it to hold your attention completely. Let the image fill your
 mind before quickly closing your eyes. Notice how the candle has
 imprinted itself on the darkness. Hold it there, in your mind’s eye,
 ignoring any change of colour. If it slips to the side, bring it back to the
 centre and continue concentrating until the image fades completely.
 Now open your eyes and resume gazing at the candle. Continue in this
 way for ten minutes, gradually increasing the time that you hold the
 image of the candle in your mind’s eye.
 With practise, and from such a simple start, it is possible to develop the
 ability to undertake the visualization required for even the most
 advanced magic making.
 The Basic Ritual
 Opening the circle and calling the elements
 Ideally, you should open a circle every time you cast a spell and ask the
 four elements to bless your magic making. The circle protects you from
 outside influences that may interfere with the magic being made. Some
 spell makers mark a physical circle in the room that they have set aside
 for performing their magic. This is often done with a cord that has been
 suitably consecrated and is usually 9 feet in diameter. It doesn’t have to
 be exactly this size, but it should be large enough to hold your altar and
 all the things needed to make magic.
 y
 42
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 Never cast a circle if you are feeling in the least bit unwell. It takes
 considerable powers of concentration to do this and even if you are the
 slightest bit off-colour, you will find it difficult to focus properly on
 events in hand.
 First take a soothing bath, using appropriate essential oils to scent the
 bath water and light candles of a colour suitable to the spell to be cast so
 that you can bathe in the relaxing glow of candlelight. As you let the
 waters soothe you, wash away the cares of the day and get yourself in
 the right frame of mind to weave spells. When you are ready, dry
 yourself with the thickest towel you have and dress yourself in the
 clothes you intend to wear to weave your magic. Many practitioners of
 the art don clothes of a colour associated with the spell to be cast. For
 example, if they are planning to cast a spell that calls for a red altar cloth,
 red altar decorations and red candle, then they wear red clothes. It is not
 essential to do so, but they find that it strengthens the magic to be made.
 Many magic makers who look to the East for inspiration, charge their
 chakras before casting their circles. These are the seven energy centres
 that lie along the spine and in the head, each of which picks up and sends
 out its own special energy.
 The one at the base of the spine near the tailbone is called the root or
 base chakra and is concerned with the basic physical needs of food and
 shelter. It is associated with the colour red.
 Orange is the colour connected to the sacral chakra which is just below
 the navel and is thought to be the one connected to sexuality and
 emotions.
 Just above it, in the solar plexus, is the chakra whose energy helps us
 make decisions and take responsibility for the outcome.Yellow in colour,
 this chakra also encourages creativity.
 The heart chakra is green and controls the giving and receiving of love.
 The fifth chakra is at the throat. It is involved with communication, both
 spiritual and physical, and is blue in colour.
 There are two more chakras, one between the eyes and one at the top of
 the head. The chakra that sits between the eyes is on the site where our
 third eye, the seat of clairvoyance and psychic visions, is thought to be
 situated. The third eye chakra is associated with indigo or blue.
 The last chakra, the crown chakra, is situated at the top of the head.
 White in colour, this chakra connects believers to the All, the deity which
 they aspire to be part of.
 To open the chakras before making magic, believers visualize each chakra
 in turn (starting with the base one and working up) as a wheel of its own
 coloured light spinning round and round, each one supplying the energy
 for the next one to open. When all the chakras are open they are said to
 y
 The seven chakras
 43
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 44
 be in perfect balance and the practitioner in the perfect state of mind and
 body to encourage good magic to be made.
 At the end of the magic making, the chakras are closed, apart from the
 base one and the crown one which should always stay open. Again,
 visualization is used to do this. One way involves seeing each of them as
 an open window or door. To close the chakras a beam of white light is
 seen entering through the crown chakra, and moving through each door
 in turn. As it passes through the third eye chakra the white light bathes
 the door there with the violet light of which it is partly composed and
 closes it. The beam continues to close each of the four other doors in the
 same way and then flows out of the body as a beam of red light through
 the base chakra.
 Now, suitably relaxed after a ritual bath and/or with chakras open it is
 time to open the circle. There are several methods of doing this. Wiccans
 cleanse the space with their besom and use their wands to mark out their
 circles. As they raise their wands in the air, they visualize a clear circle of
 light moving upwards like a tube from the floor, and as they draw their
 wands above their heads, the top edge of the tube comes together to form
 a clear bubble which is the circle.
 Non-Wiccans can sit, suitably dressed, in the centre of the chosen space
 and imagine that they are slowly being surrounded by a circle of light 
white, blue or purple. They see it slowly forming a sphere within which
 they can safely perform their magic.
 To call in the elements, light a candle in each quarter of your sacred space– one in the east, one in the south, one in the west and one in the north.
 As you light the east candle say:
 May the element of air bless this space with light, love and air and
 grant true love given and returned alike.
 Repeat this in each of the other three quarters, asking fire to bless the
 space as you light the south candle, water to bless the space as you light
 the west one and earth to give its blessing when you hold match or taper
 to the north candle.
 If you can do this, your spells will be all the more effective. But there are
 times in all our lives when the demands of time make this impractical.
 Similarly, when a spell has been cast, each candle in turn – east, south,
 west and lastly north – should be extinguished with a candle snuff or
 between the dampened thumb and forefinger and the relevant element
 thanked for blessing you with a loving and happy relationship. That
 done, the spell weaving ritual should be brought to an end with the
 words:
 y
 May the four powers give back to the universe any energies and
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 powers that go unused. My work complete and the circle closed. So
 let it be.
 As well as the elements there are other powers that can be invited to lend
 their power to the circle. The four dragons – one for each of the elements– are thought by many to be too powerful to work with. And even
 those who do ask them to attend magic making only do so when they
 are making powerful magic.
 Wiccans usually only summon the four dragons if there is a
 handfasting or an initiation into a coven to be done. Or perhaps if a
 major issue with serious implications for all members is being discussed.
 And when they do summon them, the dragons are treated with
 enormous respect.
 The Guardians of the Watchtowers can also be summoned. Again there
 is one for each element.Their purpose is to guard the elemental forces of
 each direction and as such they have tremendous power in themselves.
 Again they should only be summoned for very special occasions and
 when they are called upon, the circle that is cast must be inside a square
 so that each Watchtower has its own corner to sit on.
 Wiccans often ask the Guardians to attend initiation ceremonies. Doing
 so gives the novice a huge advantage. From then on the Guardians will
 be aware of who the new Wiccan is. They will watch over and protect
 him or her and if that person summons them in the future they will be
 quicker to answer the call than they would from someone unknown to
 them.
 There are also many deities who can be called upon to assist in magic
 making. Many spell weavers believe in only one god and do their magic
 in his or her name exclusively. Others call upon the power of many
 deities, using the name of one or other of them in their incantations.
 There are Celtic gods such as Sucellus, the god of agriculture and Gaulish
 ones such as Rosemerta, the goddess of fertility. The Irish pantheon
 includes Brigit, the goddess of healing, and the Welsh one Branwen,
 the goddess of love and beauty and the equivalent of the better
known Greek goddess Aphrodite and the Roman deity Venus.
 These latter two are among the most famous of their respective
 pantheons and are among the most popular deities in whose name magic
 is done.
 Egypt, as befits the land where spell casting was probably first practised,
 has an impressive list of gods and goddesses who are still believed by
 many to lend themselves to 21st-century spell weaving. They include
 Amun, the supreme god and Anubis who weighed the souls of the dead
 in a balance, against a feather. If the soul was heavier than the feather,
 the dead person’s evil deeds in life banished him to eternal damnation! 
Norse gods include Skadi, the goddess of death and hunting and Ostara,
 y
 45
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 the goddess of fertility.
 The enthusiastic magic maker should always keep an open mind about
 the deities and would be well advised to devote some time to studying
 their respective powers.
 When to Do Magic
 Some people decide what magic to do according to the day of the week.
 Others put their faith (or part of it) in the lunar calendar. As with so
 many things about spell casting, there are no hard and fast rules – a
 belief that the spell WILL work and an intuitive feeling that NOW is the
 time to cast it is all important. But there is no doubt that the planets,
 phases of the moon and days of the week do influence things.
 The lunar calendar
 It takes 28 days for the moon to pass through each of the astrological
 signs in turn. During these four weeks, she waxes to full glory, then
 wanes to darkness in which state she stays for three days before
 appearing as a thin sliver of silver. During the time when she is dark,
 many magic makers prefer not to cast any spells, choosing instead to
 meditate, reflect and look ahead to the magic to be done when next the
 moon lights up the night sky.
 When the moon is waxing,it is an ideal time to cast spells that encourage
 new beginnings. A full moon encourages fertility and fruitfulness. And
 a waning moon helps spells aimed at easing a burden, be it to do with
 health or any other such matter.
 Aries (21 March – 20 April) is the ideal time for spells concerning new
 starts as the moon now encourages energy and fresh ideas. And if
 leadership is an issue, address it by casting a suitable spell during these
 28 days.
 Taurus (21 April  – 20 May) is noted for being the dependant sign of the
 zodiac. Now is the time to cast spells concerning prosperity. And as the
 sign is ruled by Venus, spells cast to encourage love will benefit from
 that goddess’s power.
 Gemini (21 May – 21 June) is associated with communication in all its
 forms, making its lunar ascendancy the perfect time to cast spells
 concerning travel and communication skills. Many professional writers
 find that their words flow with particular fluency at this time of year, so
 perhaps budding authors should tap into Gemini’s powers to cast spells
 aimed at getting that long-delayed project started at last.
 Cancer (22 June  – 22 July) has a nurturing nature often associated with
 y
 46
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 the feminine side of things. Now is the time to aim spells at family
 matters, friends, emotional matters, health and the home. And as the
 moon rules Cancer, this feminine energy is especially strong.
 Leo (23 July – 22 August), the sign associated with boldness and courage,
 emboldens the spell caster to make magic concerning success, wealth,
 recognition and general health. Leo is a generous sign and is especially
 happy to lend its power to newcomers to the art of making magic.
 Waxing Cresent
 Half Moon 
New Moon
 Waning Cresent
 Half Moon
 Waxing Gibbous
 The lunar calendar
 Full Moon
 Waning Gibbous
 y
 47
 y
48
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 y y
 y
y
 The Basics of Tools and Rituals
 y
 Virgo (23 August – 22 September) encourages self-improvement and is
 concerned with the intellect, employment and health. Spells cast to
 encourage an abundant harvest will not be wasted during Virgo’s
 ascendancy and as the sign is noted for attention to detail, it’s a good
 time to cast spells aimed at clarifying the small print of life.
 Libra (23 September – 22 October) is noted for balance, so spells cast
 concerning harmony, especially in personal relationships, are partic
ularly potent now. It’s also a good time to cast spells to restore a
 friendship with someone who has fallen out of favour. Libra is also a sign
 that smiles on energy, idealism, love, spirituality and popularity, so spells
 cast concerning matters such as those should work well.
 Scorpio (23 October – 22 November) is associated with desire and
 transformation. Use its power to make magic concerning change, be it in
 your own life or someone else’s (change for the good, needless to say).
 Sex is never far from a Scorpio’s mind – and the energy involved in
 casting a spell concerning sexual matters will not be wasted during these
 28 days.
 Sagittarius (23 November – 22 December) is the acknowledged explorer
 of the astrological world. Tap into its power to explore the potency of
 spells concerning travel, transcendence and wisdom, and for getting at
 the truth of a matter.
 Capricorn (22 December – 20 January) is identified with ambition,
 achievement and self-control, so this is a good time to cast spells to help
 you climb the ladder of success in your career. It’s also a good time to
 think about spells concerning taking on added responsibility, maybe a
 community project.
 Aquarius (21 January – 19 February) promotes healing, higher thought
 and mental health.These are also good days to cultivate new friendships.
 The heavenly water carrier also aids spells that are aimed at increasing
 personal freedom and creative expression.
 Pisces (20 February – 20 March) is a compassionate sign and this is a
 good time for healing spells.Those who have a talent for dream interpre
tation may well find that their intuitive powers are especially strong
 during the four weeks of Pisces’ ascendancy.
 y
 49
 y

51
 y y
 y y
 Magic in Many Guises

y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 There is a variety of ways in which spells may be cast. Some people put
 their faith in candle magic. Others prefer knot magic. And still others
 may prefer to base their magic making on crystals, smudging techniques
 or incense.
 Candle Magic
 Generally, candle magic aims to perform sympathetic magic using
 coloured candles to represent the people and things at which its spells are
 directed. Each colour represents a different attribute, influence and
 emotion. Candles are anointed with special oils, carved or painted with
 magical intents, meditated upon and chanted over.
 Three types of candle are commonly used in candle magic – an altar
 candle (most magic makers and Wiccans use two altar candles), astral
 candles and offertory candles.
 Altar candles, sometimes called invocational candles are placed on the
 left and right sides of the altar. They are always the first to be lit in any
 magic making ritual. In the Wiccan Way, their flames invoke the
 presence of the Goddess and her male counterpart, sometimes known as
 the Horned God. Others who offer their magic to no particular deity
 prefer to use colours that correspond to the days of the week, as follows:
 Sunday
 Monday
 Tuesday
 Wednesday
 Thursday
 Friday
 Saturday
 Gold or yellow
 Silver, grey or white
 Red
 Purple
 Blue
 Green
 Black or purple
 The astral candle is usually positioned between the two altar candles and
 represents the person for whose benefit the spell is being cast, whether
 it be the spell caster themself or a third party. These candles must only
 be burned after the altar candles have been lit. It is important that the
 colour corresponds to the colour of the zodiac sign of the person or
 persons towards whom the spell is directed.
 Zodiac colours do vary, the ones above are taken from Practical
 Candleburning Rituals by Raymond Buckland which is the system most
 often used by experienced spell casters, one of whom advises that practi
tioners in the art of candle magic should not be too rigid in this. She
 recommends that the heart should rule the head and that magic makers
 should follow their instincts and choose an astral candle based on their
 own favourite colours. Or that they select a colour that corresponds to
 their mood at the time when preparing for the magic to be made.
 Astral candles should never be of a colour that inspires strong negative
 emotions within the spell maker as this can influence the outcome of the
 y
 53
 y
y
 y
 Magic in Many Guises
 Aries
 Taurus
 Gemini
 Cancer
 Leo
 Virgo
 Libra
 Scorpio
 Sagittarius
 Capricorn
 Aquarius
 White or pink
 Red or yellow
 Red or blue
 Green or brown
 Red or green
 Gold or black
 Black or blue
 Brown or black
 Gold or red
 Red or brown
 Blue or green
 Pisces
 magic that’s afoot.
 White or green
 Some of those who practise candle magic strengthen the astrological
 connection by inscribing the candles they use with the appropriate
 astrological sign.
 The offertory candle is also known as the purpose candle. It is normally
 placed in front of the astral candle and is the last to be lit during the
 ritual. It is burned to represent the purpose for which the spell is being
 cast. It is essential that the colour corresponds exactly to the type of
 magic being made: a pink candle would be used to draw love, a red one
 to kindle the fires of passion, a green one for financial or fertility spells
 and so on.
 Many practitioners of candle magic prefer to work with their own
 handcrafted candles but candles bought in shops can be just as effective,
 and when it comes to offertory candles there are many different sorts to
 choose from.
 Glass-enclosed novena candles are popular. Once lit, they should be
 54
 y
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 allowed to burn themselves out. Tradition holds that if a novena candle
 is extinguished, then the spell is doomed to failure. Tradition also holds
 that a spell cast using a novena candle will yield results within the week.
 Seven-knob candles consist of a vertical row of seven round knobs of
 wax strung together by a single wick. According to tradition, one knob
 of the candle is burned each day for seven consecutive days. These
 candles are sometimes called wish candles because as each section is
 burning,the spell maker concentrates upon the wish that he or she hopes
 will be granted. Again, it is inadvisable to extinguish one of the knobs
 until it has burned away.
 Double-action candles are sometimes known as reversing candles,
 because they are mainly used to reverse the effects of ill-natured spells
 cast in the magic maker’s direction. Such candles are usually white, red
 and green, coated with black from the middle down. Those who use
 double-action candles believe that as the melting coloured wax runs
 down the candle and covers the black half, the black magic that was made
 is neutralized.
 Triple-action candles are tri-coloured, and are popular in some countries,
 particularly in Latin America, banishing evil and restoring harmony to
 homes that have been hit by hostility and arguments.
 There are several other sorts of candles used, but as their purpose is by
 and large to cast spells of a dark or at least darkish nature, we will not
 discuss them here, or anywhere else in this book.
 A candle used for one type of spell should not be reused for a spell of a
 different nature as the remnants of magical and physical energy trapped
 in the candle’s wax could possibly interfere with or, even worse, reverse
 the outcome of the new spell.
 In popular practice, different candle colours correspond to different
 magical intent and additionally there are different astral colours
 corresponding to the days of the week, phases of the moon and the
 sabbats.
 In candle magic, candles are often dressed or anointed with oil. Not only
 does this help to ensure that the candle burns safely by drawing on an
 oil with appropriate strengths, the spells cast are endowed with that
 strength.
 Usually drops of the chosen essential oil are mixed with a base oil – olive,
 almond and apricot are all popular. The reason why pure essential oil is
 not used to bless a candle with its powers (apart from the expense) is that
 they are so potent that if they come into direct contact with the skin,
 they can cause allergic reactions. The only exception to this rule is
 lavender, which is so gentle that it can be safely rubbed directly onto the
 skin.And lavender’s well-known insect repellent properties make it ideal
 for spell casters who prefer to weave their magic outdoors!
 y
 55
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 A popular mixture for general use is to add five drops of sandalwood
 essential oil, three drops of frankincense essential oil and one drop of
 orange to two ounces of almond oil and then mix thoroughly.
 A more potent general-use essential oil mix is to add five drops of
 cinnamon and three drops of frankincense essential oils to two ounces of
 almond oil.
 As with most things magic, it is essential that before anointing a candle
 it is suitably consecrated and the focus of positive thoughts. Whoever is
 going to use it should contemplate for a moment or two the intention of
 the spell to be cast, before rubbing a few drops of the chosen oil between
 the palms of the hand and grasping the centre of the candle with both
 hands. If the intention of the spell is to draw something in, the oil is
 rubbed on to the candle from the middle back towards the body. If the
 spell is intended to send something out, the oil is rubbed from the centre
 away from the body.When half the candle has been anointed, it is turned
 around – away from the body if the spell is sending something, towards
 it if the spell is drawing something in.
 As the candle is anointed a suitable invocation is usually spoken aloud 
something along the lines of:
 Charge this candle strong and fast,
 To send the magic I will cast.
 And may this oil add its power,
 As the flame burns by the hour.
 But the choice of words is a personal one. And some magic weavers
 prefer to say the words to themselves rather than chant them aloud. As
 with so many things concerning spell making, there are few hard and
 fast rules.
 Candles may also be loaded with oil. To do this, a cavity is cut into the
 base of the candle and the chosen oil drizzled into it. The cavity is
 plugged with the wax that was hewn from the candle (wax from another
 candle would adversely affect the magic) which is melted down and
 poured over the oil-filled hole. When the candle burns down to the
 chamber, the oil adds its potency to the magic being made.
 After the spell to be cast has been chosen, the required number of
 candles of the appropriate colour (and holders in which to burn them)
 and the bottle containing the anointing oil should be put on the altar and
 suitably consecrated if this has not already been done. In selecting the
 spell, the day of the week when it is best to cast a spell for the chosen
 purpose, the ascendant astrological sign and the other factors that can
 influence a spell should all be borne in mind.
 The time of day is also important when considering the planetary
 influences involved. Midnight, seven in the morning, two in the
 afternoon and nine in the evening, are the hours believed by many to be
 y
 56
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 the hours when the influence of the ruling planet is at its strongest.
 There are many magic makers who will not cast their spells at any other
 times, so convinced are they of the potency that the planets add to their
 magic.
 Many magic makers find that it helps to have the words of the spell to
 be cast written out and put on their altar along with a photograph or an
 item belonging to the person to whom the spell is being directed.
 After opening rituals have been performed and the candles, holders and
 oil have been consecrated, it is the time to anoint the candles and cast the
 spell. It is best to try to ensure that there will be no interruptions, so the
 telephone answering machine will have been switched on and family
 members asked to make as little noise as possible during the half hour or
 so it takes to cast the spell.
 Once the spell has been started, it should be continued right through to
 the end without interruption, which would weaken the power of the
 magic. This is why vizualization can be such a boon: with the mind
 totally focused on the magic being made, any outside interruptions will
 not interfere with the concentration necessary to weave a spell.
 Some spells have to be performed over a series of days if they are to be
 really effective. If this is the case, it is best to cast the spell at the same
 time each day. Normally the same words are spoken, but there are some
 spells that require different words to be spoken as the days progress.
 There may be times when a candle is blown out accidentally when the
 spell is being cast, and here opinion divides. Some take it as a sign that
 the magic is not working and should be abandoned to be tried again at
 another appropriate time or day. Others carry on regardless, believing
 either that the required amount of energy has already been released by
 that candle or that the spell is complete. If it happens on the last day of
 an ongoing spell, any other candles being used are allowed to burn down
 and the spell brought to an end in the prescribed way. One thing that
 those who differ do agree on is that the offending candle should never be
 relit.
 It is also not unusual for a candle to flicker or flare during a spell
 weaving session. This is often taken as a sign that any entities that have
 been summoned are manifesting themselves and are lending their
 powers to the magic being made.
 If a candle used to represent a person is burning particularly strongly,
 this is often taken as a sign that they are dominating the situation,
 displaying higher than normal energy levels or have strong feelings
 about the reason for which the spell is being cast.
 A weak flame implies that there is strong opposition to the manifes
tation of the intent of the spell and that the spell will have to be repeated
 at a later, suitable day. Or it may mean that the person represented by
 the candle is in a submissive position in their situation, perhaps
 y
 57
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 succumbing to the illness the spell is attempting to banish, or that they
 are weakening emotionally.
 When the spell is complete and it is an ongoing one, everything may be
 left on the altar in place for the next day. The candles should never be
 blown out as this is dismissive of the element of fire that is usually
 summoned at the opening of a ritual. It should also be borne in mind
 that while the same candle may be reused as part of an ongoing spell, it
 should never be reused for another one. Once consecrated for a
 particular purpose, a candle’s energies can only be directed towards that
 intent. Even if there is a spell that has to be woven urgently, something
 that is not advisable but very occasionally essential, and the only candle
 of the right colour is one that has already been used for another purpose,
 the temptation to use it again must be resisted. Use a white candle
 instead. Made up of the seven colours of the spectrum, white can stand
 in for any of them, although the magic will probably be a little weaker
 than if the proper colour was used.
 One of the most common uses of candle magic is to cast healing spells.
 Once again colour plays a vital part. For general health and healing, light
 blue or green candles should be used. But if the problem is more specific
 then there is a suitable colour to use. For problems concerned with sexual
 function, a red candle is called for. If fertility problems are being
 addressed, then a green one should be used. Violet coloured candles
 y
 58
 y
should be used to help those with psychological difficulties,and yellow
 ones for those afflicted with respiratory illnesses.Digestive conditions
 are best addressed with pink candles,while if there are problems with the
 nervous system,an orange candle should be lit.White candles help those
 who are experiencing trouble with bones or teeth,and blue ones work
 well for urinary tract conditions.Muscular pains and weakness are best
 helped by purple candles.
 Specific illnesses can be addressed as follows:
 Condition Candle colour
 Allergies Violet
 Anaemia Red
 Anorexia Aquamarine
 Anxiety Rose
 Arthritis Orange
 Asthma Orange/Indigo/Violet
 Baldness Violet
 Blood clots Violet
 Boils Green
 Bulimia Aquamarine
 Burns Aquamarine/Blue
 Colds Green/Violet
 Constipation Orange/Yellow/Rose
 Coughs Orange
 Cuts Blue
 Deafness Indigo
 Dementia Indigo
 Depression Orange/Indigo/Rose
 Diabetes Yellow
 Diarrhea Blue
 Epilepsy Orange/Indigo
 Exhaustion Orange
 Eye ailments Aquamarine/Indigo
 Fever Blue
 Fractures White
 Gout Violet
 Headaches Green/Blue
 Hearing loss Rose
 Heartburn Yellow
 Heart conditions Rose
 Hypersensitivity Aquamarine
 Hypertension Green/Aquamarine/Blue
 59
 Magic in Many Guises y y
 y y
60
 Condition Candle colour
 Indigestion Yellow
 Infections Aquamarine/Indigo
 Inflammations Aquamarine
 Insomnia Blue
 Kidney ailments Green/Rose
 Leukaemia Red
 Liver infections Red
 Menstrual cramps Yellow/Blue
 Mental conditions Indigo/Violet
 Nervous conditions Green/Indigo
 Neuralgia Red
 Paralysis Red
 Parkinson’s disease Indigo
 Pneumonia Indigo
 Sinus problems Violet
 Skin conditions Yellow/Aquamarine
 Skin rashes Blue
 Sore throat Blue
 Stress Violet
 Stroke White
 Sunburn Blue
 Tuberculosis Indigo
 Tumours Violet
 Ulcers Green/Blue
 Upset stomach Indigo
 DIY Candle Making
 As well as anointing and loading candles with suitable essential oils,you
 can make your own coloured candles and add essential oils or suitable
 herbs in the making.Some of the things used to make candles can be
 found around the house;others can be bought at craft stores.
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 y y
 y
y
 You will need:
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 A large saucepan
 An empty tin can
 A knife
 Beeswax
 Wicking
 Molds*
 Broken crayons of the appropriate colours
 Cooking oil
 Cotton wool or kitchen paper
 Cocktail sticks that are wider than the molds
 Paperclips
 * Molds can either be purchased from a candle retail outlet or you can use something
 suitable from around the house. They must be watertight to ensure that the wax
 doesn’t leak out.
 Pour two cups of water into the saucepan and heat it to the point where
 bubbles just start to form. Cut the beeswax into cubes with the knife and,
 when the water is hot, put the wax into the tin can and place it in the
 water to allow the wax to melt. When this has happened, add the
 essential oil or herb to it, saying:
 Oh magic oil/herb of root and flower
 Grant this candle healing power.
 And let it be done, that it harm no one.
 Now add the broken crayons and stir well until everything is thoroughly
 mixed into the molten wax. Drizzle some cooking oil onto a pad of cotton
 wool or kitchen paper and wipe the inside of each mold with this.
 Cut the wick to the length of the mold, allowing an extra inch. Lay a
 cocktail stick across the top of the mold. Drop the wick into the mold,
 leaving the extra inch lying along the stick, using a paperclip to hold it
 in place.
 Pour the wax into each of the molds, almost, but not quite up to the top
 and allow it to cool and harden. When the wax has set, the candle should
 slide easily out of the mold.
 y
 61
 y
62
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 y y
 y
 Use the following herbs and oils for the conditions specified:
 Alcohol abuse Angelica
 Anxiety Catnip/Fennel/Valerian/Witch Hazel
 Arteriosclerosis Hawthorn
 Arthritis Garlic
 Asthma Anise/Coltsfoot/Daisy/Garlic/Nettle
 Bladder infections Goldenrod
 Bronchitis Angelica/Coltsfoot/Horseradish
 Bruises Aloe Vera/Comfrey/Shepherd’s Purse
 Burns Aloe Vera/Comfrey
 Cancer Crimson Clover
 Chest complaints Coltsfoot
 Colds Blessedthistle/Elderflower/
 Horehound/ Horseradish/ Rosemary/
 Wormwood
 Colic Chamomile/Rosemary/Yarrow
 Constipation Dandelion/Elderflower/Fennel/ 
Horehound
 Cuts Aloe Vera/Comfrey/Shepherd’s Purse
 Delayed periods Aloe Vera
 Depression Lavender/Rosemary/Saffron
 Diarrhea Alder/Chamomile
 Dysentery Comfrey
 Eczema Goldenseal/Witch Hazel
 Edema Hawthorn
 Emphysema Coltsfoot
 Eye ailments Eyebright
 Fatigue Lavender/Rosemary
 Fever Catnip/ Coriander/Dogwood/
 Elderflower/Ginger/Horseheal/
 Lady’s Mantle/Mugwort/Pennyroyal/
 Saffron/Thyme/Vervain/Yarrow/
 Wormwood
 Flu Cinnamon
 Gallstones Dandelions
 Gout Strawberry Leaves
 Gum infections Myrrh
 Haemorrhoids Elderflower
 Headaches Lady’s Mantle/Lavender/Peppermint/
 Thyme/Willow Bark
 Heart conditions Hawthorn/Rosemary
 Hypertension Rosemary
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 Impotency
 Infections
 Infertility
 Inflammations
 Insomnia
 Jaundice and liver disease
 Kidney conditions 
Kidney stones
 Lung infections
 Menopause
 Menstrual cramps
 Menstrual problems
 Muscle aches
 Muscle cramps
 Nervous conditions
 Neuralgia
 Pancreas problems
 Paralysis
 Rheumatism
 Ringworm 
Skin irritations
 Sore throats 
Sprains
 Stomach ulcers and tumours
 Stress
 Swellings
 Tonsillitis
 Toothache
 Tuberculosis
 Tumours 
Vertigo
 Warts
 Whooping cough
 Elderflower/Ginseng/Jasmine/
 Lavender/Mandrake
 Dogwood/Garlic/Myrrh/Violet
 Mandrake
 Chickweed/Goldenrod/Lady’s
 Mantle/ Witch Hazel
 Goldenrod/Passion Flower/Valerian
 Agrimony/Dandelion/Rosemary/
 Yarrow
 Horseradish
 Rose
 Nettle
 Lady’s Mantle
 Catnip/Chamomile/Ginger/Lady’s 
Mantle/Pennyroyal
 Fennel
 Nettle
 Peppermint
 Chamomile
 Juniper/Lavender
 Dandelion
 Rosemary
 Garlic/Horseradish/Juniper/
 Lavender/Rosemary/Valerian
 Bloodroot/Goldenseal
 Shepherd’s Purse
 Alder
 Lavender
 Adder’s Tongue/Comfrey/Nettle
 Rosemary/Valerian
 Juniper/Valerian/Witch Hazel
 Mallow
 Aloe Vera/Lady’s Mantle
 Coltsfoot
 Witch Hazel
 Rosemary
 Milkweed
 Thyme
 y
 63
 y
y
 Parchments
 y
 Magic in Many Guises
 Many of those who practise candle magic write out what they wish
 for on a piece of parchment, using a quill or fountain pen to do so.
 Some people use special inks for this purpose, available from
 specialist shops or mail order companies. (Like everything else, the
 parchment and inks have to be consecrated.) 
The parchment is usually then anointed with any essential oil that
 has been used to anoint the candles and is placed under the offertory
 candle. After the ritual has been completed, the parchment is lit with
 the flame from the offertory candle and dropped into a fireproof dish
 (some practitioners use their cauldrons for this purpose) and allowed
 to burn out. The ashes are then buried along with the stumps of the
 candles used during the ritual.
 Knot Magic
 As interest in magic and spell casting has increased since the dawning of
 The New Age, so the interest in this ancient form of magic has
 intensified and once again magic makers are turning to it more and
 more.
 It has its roots in Mesopotamia where two or three thousand years ago
 mystics would tie knots in a cord and focus their energies on it. A
 suitable incantation was chanted while the knots were being tied and as
 the knots were untied, thus releasing the power of the spell. Knot magic
 is thought to have been mainly used for healing, exorcism and banishing
 negativity and historians believe that after the spell had been cast, the
 rope was burned to make sure that the problem had been permanently
 banished.
 Knot magic was also used to place a curse on the mystic’s enemies or on
 the foes of those who paid them to cast their spells. In this case, the curse
 was knotted into the rope that was then buried to ensure that it
 remained active.
 Knot magic spread to Ancient Greece and Rome and was used in the
 Middle Ages, but as knotting was seen as a woman’s occupation, it fell
 out of favour with the, usually male, masters of Renaissance magic. It
 survived in fishing ports where spey wives, women with the gift of
 second sight, would knot the wind into lengths of rope and sell them to
 fisherman and sailors. When a change of direction was needed, the
 appropriate rope was unknotted to release the desired wind and carry the
 fisherman to the fishing grounds, sailors to their destinations and to
 bring them both safely to port.
 Modern practitioners of the art of knot magic often use cords
 (traditionally nine feet long) of an appropriate colour for the purpose of
 the spell. A black cord would be used for spells cast to banish
 64
 y
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 negativity, and a brown one for those concerning the home. Yellow and
 gold are appropriate for magic being made to rejuvenate, heal and spread
 peace and happiness, while green cord is the colour to use if love, beauty,
 fertility and wealth are the concerns of the spell. Orange is thought to
 restore harmony to a damaged relationship. So does pink, which also
 promotes love, friendship and fidelity.
 The royal and priestly colours – purple, indigo and violet – encourage
 psychic and mental healing – while red heals the heart when it is in
 physically poor shape, enriches the blood and fires passion and sexual
 potency. Sky blue lends itself to spells concerning study and learning and
 those cast to encourage communication. White stands for purity and as
 the colour is made up of all the colours of the spectrum, a white cord can
 be used for any knot magic when a cord of the appropriate colour is not
 to hand.
 Silver cords have a special association for Wiccans to whom the power of
 the moon is so important. If they were drawing on its power to make
 knot magic, they would quite likely use a silver cord.
 It is best to use cord made of natural fibre such as silk or cotton, but if
 the spell has, for some reason to be cast as a matter of urgency, then
 man-made fibre will do.
 To cast a spell using knot magic all you need is a length of cord of an
 appropriate colour. (You can braid three cords together to strengthen the
 magic being made.) Consecrate it as you would everything else used in
 spell weaving and focus your thoughts on the reason the spell is being
 cast. Nine knots are tied altogether: the first at one end and the second
 at the other end. If you are plaiting three cords together, when you tie
 the first knot to prevent the braiding unravelling, say, ‘By knot one, the
 spell is begun. May the magic run and run.’ And when the three cords
 are bound together and you tie a knot at the finished end, say, ‘By knot
 two it will come true. Made for me, or made for you.’
 Those using just the one cord should say the same words when they tie
 the first two knots.
 The third knot is tied in the middle and the fourth halfway between the
 new knot and the one at the right-hand end and the fifth between the
 central knot and the one at the other end.
 The cord is knotted for the sixth and seventh times between the fourth
 knot and the end it is nearer to and the fifth knot and the end it is closer
 to respectively. And the eighth and ninth knots are tied between the
 centre knot and the fourth and fifth knots respectively.
 As you knot, don’t let the aim of the spell slip from your mind.
 Concentrate on it as you continue saying aloud:
 By knot three, so shall it be
 That magic powers flow from me.
 y
 65
 y
y
 Magic in Many Guises
 y
 By knot four, this power will soar
 Thank thee ***** whom I adore.
 By knot five, ’twill now survive
 My magic flows, is given drive.
 And as I knot the cord times six,
 My magic, I have faith, will fix.
 The spell begins with this knot, seven.
 My magic carried by the power in heaven.
 By knot eight, let it be given.
 My magic’s safe. ’Twill ne’er be riven.
 And now I make the knot of nine
 My magic, I have faith, will shine.
 y
 66
 y
67
 y y
 y y
 The Spell’s the Thing

y
 The Spell’s The Thing
 y
 Spells do not have to be complicated and they do not have to involve
 expensive equipment. The real magic in weaving spells comes from
 within. Once a learner has come to understand how magic energy works
 and has learned how to cast spells, he or she will find an increasing
 ability to tap into inner powers, and that the ‘props’ become less
 important – although they are still used – in crafting spells.
 There are two ways to craft spells. The first is to take an existing spell,
 such as the ones we are going to describe later in this book, and change
 it to suit the individual’s need. As already said, if a spell says that a
 certain flower be used, a specific essential oil be included or suggests a
 particular altar decoration, and the spell maker knows from his or her
 own experience that another one works better for them, then it is right
 that they use their own preferences. Similarly, incantations and chants
 can be reworded, deities can be included or not. In fact, in magic, as in so
 much of life, nothing is carved in stone.
 The second way is to create a new spell from scratch.This is usually done
 when a situation presents itself which an experienced magic maker
 believes can be beneficially influenced by weaving a spell, but is unable
 to find an appropriate one in his or her Book of Shadows.Then what else
 is there to do, but make a new one? The first thing to do is to research
 the magic correspondences to establish when the spell should be cast and
 what are the most suitable colours, herbs, oil, crystals and other
 ingredients. The more magical correspondences that are considered and
 included, the more powerful the magic will be.
 The correspondences established, the next thing to do is to write a
 suitable incantation that states the need or desire quite clearly.
 Invocations may, if the magic maker wishes, call upon a deity to bless the
 spell. They can be a few simple words or they can be elaborate poetry.
 Rhyming incantations are traditional. ‘To bind this spell every time, let
 the spell be spake in rhyme,’ is the advice given by Lady Gwendolyn
 Thompson, an experienced and highly respected Wiccan. Many
 newcomers are embarrassed that their attempts at creating suitable
 rhyming incantations result in something that is little more than
 doggerel.They need not be.As long as the intention of the spell is clearly
 stated, that is all that is required. No one expects an effort worthy of the
 Poet Laureate!
 The last thing to do is to work out the appropriate time for the spell to
 be cast. The day of the week may be important and the phases of the
 moon definitely will be. The position of the planets may need to be
 considered, as well as the ruling astrological sign.
 All these things done, all the ingredients gathered together and suitably
 consecrated, it is time to relax in a warming, scented bath, don the
 clothes selected for the ritual and start to weave spells.
 One of the most frequently asked questions about making magic is, how
 long does it take for a spell to work? There is no precise answer to this.
 y
 69
 y
y
 The Spell’s The Thing
 y
 All magic makers are different: they have their individual strengths and
 weaknesses that will influence the outcome of casting a spell. What may
 work in a day or two for one magic maker, might take a week or two for
 another. But if a known spell is cast according to the precise instructions,
 and is cast during the most favourable phase of the moon and the right
 planetary hour, if all the correspondences have been carefully planned
 and if the spell weaver’s will and visualization skills are strong, then the
 results of a spell may be felt anywhere from almost immediately to
 within a complete lunar cycle (28 days). Experienced magic makers
 believe that around two weeks is the average time it takes for a spell to
 work. But some spells can take much longer than this – one well-known
 Wiccan has a spell in her grimoire that takes a year and a day to work.
 Also, some spells may have to be cast more than once before they work.
 As with so much in life, practise makes perfect, and always remember
 that patience is a virtue!
 Beginners in the art of making magic often wonder if a spell can be made
 to work every time. In a word, No! There are so many factors involved
 in successful magic making (see above) that if one is even slightly off
 balance, the outcome of a magic making ritual will be influenced. Also, if
 the spell weaver’s concentration wanders, if energy levels are below
 normal, and if another believer in magic has cast bad magic in your
 direction, then there is a fair chance that your spells will not work. In his
 musical, Nymph Errant, the incomparable Cole Porter penned a song
 called Experiment! Novice spell casters can do no better than to follow
 suit. They should try different spells until they find a formula that
 works for them and if they persevere then they will find that the day
 will come when everything comes together and successful magic is
 made.
 Most magic makers find that spells they cast for their own benefit or for
 the good of someone they are closely involved with work best and more
 quickly than others. The reason for this is probably that such spells
 concern issues about which the spell weaver feels strongly, and he or she
 is probably more focused and has more magic energy when making their
 magic.
 Spells found in another’s Book of Shadows may well be less powerful
 than spells that are self-created. When you use someone else’s spells you
 are merging your energies with those of whoever created the spells. And
 the energies of one magic maker may be completely incompatible with
 those of another. If this is the case, then no matter how often an attempt
 is made to cast that person’s spells, it simply won’t work, or if it does, the
 potency of the spells will be diluted.
 Some would-be spell casters are concerned that magic is contradictory to
 Christian belief. They can be reassured that this is not the case. In fact,
 magic and the Christian faith have several things in common. Prescribed
 prayers are in effect incantations. The cross could be considered to be an
 amulet. Many of the saints respected by Christians were pagan in origin,
 and many Christian festivals have their roots in pagan festivities. In the
 y
 70
 y
y
 The Spell’s The Thing
 y
 Middle Ages when witch-hunting was common, many Christians
 worked spells in the name of Jesus and wore talismans to protect them
 from evil. And the miracles worked by Jesus could be interpreted as
 magic. So any doubts about making magic being anti-Christian can be
 dispelled.
 Another worry is that once cast, a spell cannot be reversed. This is not
 so. Most, if not all, spells can be reversed if the right technique is used.
 One of these is to repeat the spell in reverse fashion, saying any
 incantations backwards. Another method is to cast a spellbreaker, which
 can also be used to reverse the magic of others, although this requires
 much more energy than reversing one’s own spells.
 One common spellbreaker involves candle magic. It works best when
 Aries or Scorpio are ruling and should be cast when the moon is waning.
 Once the circle has been cast and the elements invoked (which is
 necessary in spell breaking), light suitably coloured altar candles and
 burn appropriate incense. Now anoint a purple candle (a seven-knob one
 works best) – there are special oils easily obtained from specialist shops
 for this purpose. They include chilli pepper, cyclamen, geranium, juniper
 and mimosa oils as well as the more exotic flying devil oil, jinx removing
 oil and spell-breaker oil and other specially prepared concoctions. Now
 light the candle and focusing on the flame say whichever of these
 incantations is more suitable.
 If someone else has directed the spell towards you, say:
 Mystic powers of wax and flame
 Let this spell be now reversed.
 Remove its power from my path
 And let its sender, know so first.
 If it is one of your own spells that you wish to reverse, say:
 The spell I cast be broken,
 Let it weaken by the hour.
 May things return to what they were,
 Before I worked my power.
 And it harm none, so be it.
 The old saying that the only way to bring a spell to an end is to cast
 another spell is not necessarily true. Few spells cast are permanent. Most
 have to be recast regularly to maintain their magic power, and if this is
 not done then the spell’s effects will gradually wear off.
 May your magic making be successful and as it harm none, so be it.
 y
 71
 y

73
 y y
 y y
 The Book of Shadows

y
 The Book of Shadows
 y
 If we lived in an ideal world and there was magic to be made, we would
 open a circle every time and invite the four elements to bless and witness
 our magic making. This is done by lighting a candle to honour each of
 them.To do this, light a candle in each quarter of your sacred space – one
 in the east to represent air, one in the south to represent fire, one in the
 west to represent water and one in the north to represent earth. A fifth
 candle, representing spirit, is put in the middle of the circle.
 As you light the east candle say:
 I call upon the element of air to be present and to bless the work to
 be done.
 Hold the candle to the east for a moment and say:
 Hail and welcome!
 Set the candle in its holder in the appropriate quarter. Repeat this with
 each of the other four candles, asking each element for its presence and
 blessing.
 If you can do this, your spells will be all the more effective. But there are
 times in all our lives when the demands of time make this impractical.
 But if you can’t, try and adapt the spells to suit the time available. The
 most important thing in making magic is a deeply held belief that it will
 work, and sincerity.
 In giving the recipes for the spells that follow, rather than preface each
 one with, ‘Cast the circle and perform the usual opening rituals,’ we will
 in most cases assume that this has been done, unless time is of the
 essence and you make the decision to go ahead and cast a shortened
 version of the spell.
 Similarly, instead of repeating, ‘Put the essential oil in an oil burner,
 place it on the altar and light it, so that its fragrant fumes fill the air and
 add potency to your magic’, where an essential oil is included in the
 ingredients of a spell, or plays a more active role – being used to anoint
 a candle, for example – please take it as read.
 All the ingredients used should be suitably consecrated and arranged on
 your altar. Some of them – crystals, for example – may play no obviously
 active part in the magic, but they add power to the spell being cast
 because of their association with the purpose of the spell. As with so
 much concerning magic making, altar decoration is very personal.
 Unless certain oils, crystals and the other accoutrements involved in
 strengthening spells are specified, use ones that have associations with
 the purpose of the spell or that you know work well for you.
 Talismans and amulets have not been listed. These are so personal to the
 magic maker that it is up to them which ones are used for the spell being
 cast.
 y
 75
 y
y
 The Book of Shadows
 y
 Certain elements common to many of the spells have not been listed
 each time. These include:
 The four candles used to evoke the elements’ blessings and altar
 candles
 Candle holders
 Matches or tapers
 An essential oil burner 
A fireproof dish in which to put spent matches and tapers
 Tissues to clean any spilt materials
 Ensure that you have everything you are going to need in place before
 performing the opening rituals. Having to go and collect something that
 has been forgotten is not only time-consuming, it breaks concentration
 which is one of the most important ingredients of any spell.Also leaving
 and re-entering the circle weakens it. So, let your motto be, ‘Be
 prepared’.
 Many of the incantations may read like little more than doggerel – bad
 doggerel at that! Please don’t be put off by that. Magic makers can’t be
 expected to be Shakespeare! The words we have chosen are suggestions.
 Feel free to use your own words!
 After each part of a spell has been performed, and at the end of the magic
 making, it is common practice to ask that, in making your magic work,
 the powers in whose presence the spell is made do harm to no one.
 The words we have chosen – And let it be done, that it harm no one 
are popular with many magic makers. But any suitable words may be
 used.
 May the magic you make be successful. And let it be done that it harm
 no one.
 y
 76
 y
THE SPELLS
 77
 The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Spells y y
 y y

79
 y y
 y y
 Spells to Find Love

81
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell to Evoke a Romantic
 Response
 If you are attracted to someone but there is no response,this spell may
 do the trick.It won’t make them fall for you,but it will make sure that
 nothing stands in the way.The spell works best if it is cast on a Friday.
 You will need:
 A wine glass
 A plain gold ring
 80 cm of red ribbon
 A crystal of rose quartz
 A bowl of red flowers
 A picture of the person you wish to attract,if available
 Stand the wine glass on your altar.Thread the ribbon through the ring
 to make a pendulum and,holding the ribbon between your thumb and
 forefinger, let the ring hang in the rim of the glass,without letting it
 touch the sides .
 Say aloud your name and the name of the person you are attracted to.
 Pause for a moment then repeat both names again and then once more.
 Look at the picture (if you don’t have one,bring one into your mind’s
 eye) and spell their name out loud.As you say each letter,let the ring tap
 against the glass.
 Tie the ribbon round your neck,the ring resting on your heart and bring
 the magic making to an end.Wear it for three weeks,taking it off only
 to repeat the spell on the next three Fridays.
 If after the end of the third week there has been no sign that your
 interest is being reciprocated,then perhaps it’s time to realize that some
 things are never meant to be.
A Spell to Win Affections
 This spell takes time to cast its magic but if,after a week or two, the
 person whose affections you are trying to win does not seem to be
 responding then perhaps the fates are advising you to look elsewhere for
 love.
 You will need:
 An onion
 A new flowerpot
 Potting compost
 A bolline or burin (see pages 36-37)
 Jasmine essential oil
 Patience
 Scratch the name of the person you are in love with on the base of the
 onion with the bolline or burin and plant it in the flowerpot.Focus on
 the flowerpot for a moment or two,then say:
 Plant take root and grow shoots.
 Shoots grow into leaves.
 May a flower bloom among them.
 And as the flower blooms,
 May *******’s love for me
 Take root,bloom and flower.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Close the magic making in your usual way,before putting the pot on a
 window sill that faces the direction in which your love lives.Repeat the
 incantation every day until the first flower appears and if by then there
 has been no reaction then look to pastures new.
 82
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
83
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell to Make Love Grow
 Whirlwind romances may be the stuff of romantic novels,but in real life
 flames that are the quickest to take,burn out and are the first to die.This
 spell takes time to work but it is very effective.It should be done on a
 clear night during a waxing moon.
 You will need:
 A packet of seeds
 A new flowerpot
 Potting compost
 A small copper coin
 Before you open your circle take the coin outside and hold it up to the
 moon,focusing your mind on the one whose thoughts you are trying to
 direct towards you.
 Now go to your sacred space and, the opening rituals completed,bury
 the coin in the flowerpot.Sprinkle the seeds on top to form the initials
 of the other person’s first and last name.As the seeds germinate and start
 to shoot,so love should take root and blossom in your life.
A Spell to Revive Passion
 If passion is cooling between you and
 your lover this simple spell may help
 revive it. Ideally it demands there be a
 fire in your sacred space. If this is not
 practical, when you consecrate the
 laurel leaves,consecrate some coal and
 when you have opened your circle,
 leave the circle and take the leaves
 and the coal to your fireplace.Or if
 you live in a centrally heated home,
 you could build a bonfire or use your
 barbecue.
 You will need:
 Lots of laurel leaves
 A fire in embers (see above)
 Gaze at the embers,a picture of your love in
 your mind’s eye, for a moment or two before
 throwing some of the laurel leaves onto the embers.
 As they smoulder say:
 Sacred leaves glow in the fire
 Warm the heart of my true love’s desire.
 When the leaves have burned away,repeat the ritual twice,adding,‘And
 let it be done,that it harm no one,’ the last time you say the words.
 If the fire was in your sacred space,bring the magic making to an end in
 your usual fashion.If you had to leave the circle to cast the spell,return
 to it through the same ‘door’ you made in it when you left,and then
 perform your closing rituals.
 84
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
A Spell that has Worked for Many
 This is one of many spells that have been developed over the centuries
 by young women eager for love.It has worked for many of them.There
 is no reason why it shouldn’t work for you.
 You will need:
 A very fragrant,fresh red rose
 Two red candles
 Before you consecrate the rose and the candles find out what time the
 sun will rise on the following morning.Put the rose and the candles on
 the altar,one candle on either side of the flower.If you wish to leave a
 suitable crystal or talisman alongside the candles, so much the better.
 Next morning at sunrise take the rose outside, breathe in its sweet
 perfume and then hold it in front of you.Focus on it for a moment or
 two,then say:
 Flower of love,please let it be,
 That true love is coming to me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Go indoors and lay the rose between the candles and light them.Focus
 on the flame and see true love burning in the heart of the one you
 want to attract.Or,if you have no one special in mind,bring to
 mind someone with features and a nature you find attractive.
 Keep the candles burning until the rose loses its bloom,
 then extinguish them,before burying the rose in the 
garden. If you do not have
 access to a garden you 
could press the rose
 between the pages of a 
favourite book of
 poems.
 85
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
A Simple Spell
 Many people who have cast this little spell have said that,despite its
 simplicity,it has a high success rate in having the unspoken love you feel
 for someone acknowledged.It can also be cast with no one particular in
 mind.
 You will need:
 Two leaves that can be drawn on
 Green thread
 A needle
 Seven pennies
 Draw a picture of yourself on one of the leaves and a picture of the
 person you want to return your love on the other. If you have no one
 special in mind and are casting this spell simply to bring love into your
 life,as well as an image of how you would like your lover to look,you
 could also add a list of the characteristics he or she should have.Sew the
 two leaves together with the green thread and knot it tightly.
 Take the leaves to a tree that you are fond of,one with a natural crevice
 within which you can hide them.Making sure that they will not blow
 away,gently push the leaves into the crevice,saying as you do so:
 Earth,Water,Air and Fire,
 Bring me *****’s true love as I desire.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now bury the coins around the base of the tree and trust to the elements
 to make your magic work.
 86
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
87
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell to Have Love Returned
 Horseshoes were once easy to get hold of and were commonly hung over
 doors to bring good luck into the house.If there is not one at hand,and
 these days there probably will not be, cut one from a piece of card or
 paper,or maybe you can lay your hands on a miniature one that has
 been used as a good luck charm on a wedding cake.The spell is cast to
 have the love you hold in your heart for someone reciprocated.Cast on
 a Friday when the moon is waning.
 You will need:
 A pink candle (representing the female)
 A blue candle (representing the male)
 A gold candle
 A horseshoe
 A key
 Two roses (preferably,but not necessarily,red)
 An article of the other person’s clothing
 A large bowl
 Pot pourri
 Female spell casters should light the pink candle first then the blue one.
 Men should light the blue one first then the pink.When these two
 candles have been lit,light the gold one and put it between the other two.
 Now place a rose alongside the two outer candles and put the horseshoe
 at the far side of one of the roses and the key at the far side of the other
 one.
 As the candles burn,focus on your heart’s desire until the flames flicker
 and die or you have to bring the ritual to an end, in which case
 extinguish the flames in the usual way.
 Wrap the key and the horseshoe in the article of clothing and put it in a
 drawer.Leave it there for two weeks,by which time the roses will have
 lost their bloom.Do not throw them away.When the fourteen days have
 passed,take the package from the drawer and put the horseshoe,key and
 rose petals in the bowl. Fill it with the pot pourri and put it on the
 window ledge closest to where your loved one lives.Now wait and your
 love will come to you.
A Spell with No One Particular in
 Mind
 This spell is cast by those looking for true love, but who have no
 particular person in mind.It should be cast out of doors beside a stream
 or river.
 You will need:
 Rose petals from a living,wild rose
 Wiccans will approach the rose with reverence and ask its permission
 before removing the petals.Then they will thank it for its generosity.
 As you are plucking the petals, visualize someone who has all the
 qualities you think are necessary in the ideal partner – humour,
 generosity, compassion,whatever.Take the petals to a stream or river,
 hold them in cupped hands and,again visualizing the qualities you are
 looking for,let them drop into the flowing water,saying:
 As this bloom is taken downstream
 May I find the love of which I dream.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The spell is cast.
 88
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
89
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell For New Love
 Use the power of the new moon to cast this spell to add spice to your life
 by bringing a new love into it.
 You will need:
 A salt shaker
 A pepper shaker
 Three feet of pink ribbon
 As you consecrate the ingredients,think of one of the spices as masculine
 and the other as feminine.Then tie the female object to one end of the
 ribbon and the male one to the other end.As you are doing this say:
 Ribbon of love,as I bind thee,
 Please let true love find me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Next morning,untie the two shakers, then retie them a little closer to
 each other,repeating the incantation.Do this each day for a week,timing
 it so that by the seventh day the two are touching.Now bind them
 together,repeating the incantation and leave them until the night of the
 full moon by which time either someone should have entered your life,
 or someone you already know will have you in their thoughts.They may
 not declare themselves right away,but they will eventually.
A Spell with Small Beginnings
 Love is a great thing;apple seeds are small.But great things grow from
 small beginnings so put the two together and true love may well
 blossom.
 You will need:
 A piece of heart-shaped jewellery
 Some items made of copper or brass
 A piece of rose quartz
 Two red roses
 An apple
 One or two photographs of happy couples
 One white altar candle
 One pink altar candle
 Oil of ylang-ylang or patchouli
 A small flowerpot filled with potting compost
 Your knife
 A small glass of water
 Decorate your altar with the heart-shaped jewellery,the copper or brass
 items, the quartz and the red roses before laying the photographs
 between the white and the pink altar candles.
 Kneel in front of the altar, light the white candle and meditate for a
 minute or two on Venus,goddess of love, seeing yourself in a loving
 relationship.Light the pink candle and rise slowly to your feet,opening
 your arms wide above your head.
 Slowly and softly say:
 Venus shining in the night,
 Bless my heart with love and light.
 Loved in truth I wish to be.
 Listen to my prayer,my plea.
 May I love and be loved in turn,
 As brightly as the candles burn.
 If I am loved help me see it.
 And harm no one.So be it.
 90
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
91
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 As the pink candle burns down,peel and core the apple.Remove the pips
 and press them into the compost.Drizzle some water onto them saying:
 As the seeds I have planted begin to grow.
 May the love that I have begin to show.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now bring your ritual to an end in the usual way.
A Spell to find Out a Lover’s Initials
 Those who are looking for new love and a hint as to who the lover will
 be,could try this quick and simple spell.
 You will need:
 An apple
 A bolline 
And that’s all.
 Invoke the four elements in a quicker way than usual by standing before
 your altar and saying:
 Fire,Earth,Air,Water
 Spirits of the elements be with me.
 That done,peel the apple,keeping the peel in one piece.Now holding the
 peel in your right hand say:
 Spirits of love.Spirits of Good
 On you now I beg to intrude,
 With this token to discover
 The initial of my one true lover.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words spoken, turn round three times counter-clockwise before
 dropping the peel over your left shoulder.The letter suggested by the
 shape the peel forms when it lands on the ground is the initial letter of
 your soon-to-be lover’s first name.
 Thank the elements thus:
 Fire,Earth,Air,Water
 I thank you for your presence here.
 The first person to enter your home will bear the same initials as your
 lover.
 92
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
93
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell for Love Within the Month 
This spell is most potent if cast when the moon is new.And as the object
 of the spell weaving is to bring new love into your life, if you use
 nothing but previously unused materials the spell will be all the more
 effective and should bring a new love before the lunar month has passed.
 You will need:
 A heart-shaped rose petal (if this is not
 available,cut a heart shape out of a piece
 of red paper)
 A clean sheet of white paper
 A new pen
 A pink candle
 A new envelope
 On the day when a new moon is due to appear in
 the sky,write the following on a fresh sheet of paper
 with the new pen:
 As this heart glows in candlelight
 I draw my love to me tonight.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 When night falls and the moon has risen,bathe and get ready for bed.
 Wearing freshly laundered (or new) nightclothes, light the candle and
 read the spell aloud.
 Now hold the rose petal or heart-shaped piece of paper in front of the
 candle and see the flame shine through it.Place the heart and written
 spell in the envelope and seal it with wax from the candle.
 Put the envelope in a safe place and don’t give into the temptation to
 touch it for 28 days,by which time new love should have come to you
 (even if you do not recognize it at the time).
A Spell for True Love
 Tuesday, the day of the week traditionally associated with Mars, or
 Friday with its association with Venus,are the best days to cast this spell
 to encourage true love to come knocking at your door.It is,needless to
 say,up to you whether or not you hear it!
 You will need:
 A piece of rose quartz,jade,aventurine or moonstone
 Chamomile,sorrel or bay
 Gardenias,tansies or roses bound as a posy
 Sunflower or a suitable carrier oil
 One of these essential oils:rose absolute/bulgar/maroc/
 patchouli/jasmine/ylang-ylang/geranium
 Any small item that holds romantic associations for you
 One white altar candle
 Two pink taper candles
 Your bolline or burin
 Add one drop of your chosen essential oil to the carrier oil and place it
 on the altar with the other materials you are going to use.
 Kneel in front of the altar.Light the white candle and meditate quietly
 in front of it.Now take one of the pink candles and very carefully use
 the knife to carve the symbol of Venus at the top of the candle.Put it
 back in its holder,and then rub some of the oil into your hands.Now
 dress the inscribed candle,drawing the oil towards you and visualizing
 that you are empowering the candle with your desire.Once the candle
 has been anointed,and still visualizing,rub your hands together,keeping
 the candle between your palms.
 After a minute or two,put the candle back in its holder and take the
 second pink candle in hand and carve the symbol of Mars at the top.
 Anoint it as you did the first one,rub it between the palms of your hands
 then put it back in its holder.
 Now light both pink candles,saying:
 Love to me please bring,
 94
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
95
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 By the power of love so true,
 Fill my heart and make it sing,
 Rejoice and help me love anew.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Watch the pink candles burn down and when the flames flicker and die
 bring the ritual to an end in the usual manner.
A Spell for the Lovelorn 
Don't cast this spell with anyone special in mind lest you stand accused
 of trying to control his or her free will. Instead, trust to fate that
 whoever answers is the right one for you.The spell is most powerful if
 cast on a Friday when the moon is waxing.
 You will need:
 A bottle of rose water
 Nine feet of white cord
 Four green candles
 One pink candle
 Charcoal and a small charcoal burner
 Twelve or so freshly plucked rose petals and some rose essential oil
 A cinnamon stick
 A gold pen
 A glass bowl filled with fresh spring water
 A bowl of earth
 Have a bath or shower in warm water then scent yourself with rose
 water.Now,quite relaxed and refreshed,make a circle using the white
 cord.Light one of the green candles at each of the four major compass
 points of your circle and invoke the winds,facing each direction in turn,
 with these timeless words:
 Hail to thee East Wind
 Hail to thee South Wind
 Hail to thee West Wind
 Hail to thee North Wind
 I call for love
 And make this offering to you.
 Put the charcoal burner in the centre of the circle,lay the charcoal in it
 and light it.Light the pink candle with the charcoal,place it alongside the
 burner and begin breathing deeply until you feel your energies and
 emotions are properly concentrated.
 Facing east,put seven of the rose petals to one side and rub rose oil onto
 the rest.Crush the cinnamon stick over the oiled rose petals and float
 them down onto the smouldering charcoal.
 96
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y F E 4 5 8 E D 6 5 D 8 5 4 1 0 6 9 1 6 3 F 6 C 0 E E C 0 B 9 4 6
97
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 Now,focusing on the word 'love',use the gold pen to write it on each of
 the seven rose petals you put to one side and rain them into the bowl of
 spring water.Sit in the circle,letting the scent of the spice and the rose
 petals envelop your every breath until your charged energy is focused
 on love and love alone.
 Now give yourself to your emotions – open your hands,open your heart
 and repeat the words of the spell seven times:
 Fill me with love that I may feel a joyous heart.
 To share with from whom I shall not part.
 Let him/her come to me of their own free will.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words said,say your thanks and extinguish the candles.Now close
 your spell by winding up the cord circle counter-clockwise, taking the
 container of rose-scented water in both hands and holding it aloft for a
 moment before letting it drizzle into the earth.
 The spell is cast.Have faith that the one who answers is the one who will
 bring love into your life.
 michelle grieco
A Spell to Find Love for the First
 Time
 There’s no need to perform the usual rituals apart from consecrating the
 things you are going to use to cast this spell,which is designed for those
 who have never been in love before.
 You will need:
 A fresh,fragrant red rose
 Several red candles
 The night you make the magic,establish the time the sun will rise next
 morning and just before you go to bed,put the red rose on your altar
 with a red candle on either side of it.Set your alarm for a few minutes
 before sunrise.
 On awakening,take the rose outside,face the dawn (or if you live in a
 flat,stand before an open window facing east) and say:
 Red rose,true love’s flower,
 Please lend me your power,
 To give someone my heart,
 And never shall we part.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Put the rose back in its place on the altar and light the two candles.Spend
 a minute or two focused on the flames,visualizing love warming the
 heart of the one you desire.Repeat the ritual each night until the rose
 fades,using the flames of the dying candles to light new ones.When the
 rose dies, extinguish the candles either by snuffing them with your
 fingers or with a candle snuffer and bury the dead flower.As it rots in
 the ground,love will be kindled in the heart of your chosen one and they
 will soon make themselves known to you.
 98
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
99
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell for When Love is Shaky
 If a love affair is getting a little shaky, try this spell to shore up the
 foundations.
 You will need:
 A fresh apple
 A clean sheet of white writing paper
 An unused pen
 A knife
 Two pins
 Slice the apple in half without cutting through the seeds. If you are
 casting the spell for yourself,write your own name and the name of the
 other person on the paper. If you are casting it on behalf of another
 couple,write their names on the paper.In either case,make sure that the
 names take up less than the width of the apple.
 Now cut out the names and put the paper bearing them between the two
 halves of the apple. Bring them together and visualize harmonious
 relations restored.
 Fix the two halves together with the two pins, inserting the first pin
 diagonally right to left and the second one diagonally left to right.Focus
 your thoughts on the skewered apple,trying to picture your love taking
 wing, flying to the person or people concerned and watching it being
 returned.
A Spell to Keep a Lover Faithful
 This spell is cast to keep your partner faithful if you think he or she may
 be tempted from the marital bed. It is intimate and brief because the
 ingredients include two freshly laundered items of underwear – a pair of
 your own and a pair belonging to your partner.
 You will need:
 Two nutmegs
 A pair of your underwear
 A pair of your partner’s underwear
 Some wide red ribbon
 A large envelope (white if possible)
 A bolline or burin
 Inscribe your name on one of the nutmegs and your partner’s name on
 the other.That done,bind them together with the ribbon,saying these,
 or similar words as you do so:
 As I bind these fruits of tree
 Lover,never stray from me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Wrap the nutmeg in both pairs of underwear and put them in the
 envelope.Slip this under his or her side of the bed.(If you put it under
 the pillow,they would almost certainly feel it and wonder what you’ve
 been up to!) But when they are away,you can remove it and put it under
 your pillow.
 100
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
101
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell Based on a Nursery Rhyme
 This spell draws its inspiration from the old English folk song that goes:
 Lavender Blue dilly,dilly,Lavender Green.
 I’ll be your King,dilly,dilly,
 If you’ll be my Queen.
 Cast it before you go on a first date
 with a new friend who may or may
 not turn out to offer more than
 friendship.
 You will need:
 A lavender candle
 A small piece of rose quartz
 After you have bathed and dressed and
 are all ready to go,light the candle and focus on
 the flame for a moment or two,visualizing how good it would be if this
 first date led to much greater things.
 Now say the following or similar words:
 Lavender blue,Lavender green,
 In romantic light let us be seen.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words spoken, circle the rose quartz crystal three times clockwise
 round the flame before extinguishing it between a finger and thumb.
 Slip the crystal into a pocket or handbag to take the power of the spell
 with you on the date.
A Spell to Fill a Lonely Gap
 Everyone,at some time or other,comes to realize that there is an empty
 spot where love should be.This spell aims to fill that gap.It can be cast
 with a particular person in mind or for a yet unknown lover.Remember
 though, that magic should never be cast to manipulate the free will of
 another person.He or she may feel an attraction but it is up to them
 whether or not they acknowledge it.The spell should be cast on a
 Monday when the moon is waxing or full.Never when it is waning.
 You will need:
 Three chalices
 Cinnamon essential oil (or a favourite love drawing oil) or some
 vanilla extract
 An orange taper candle
 Water
 Light the candle and charge the oil,holding the bottle it is in up to the
 candlelight and rolling it between the palms of you hands,visualizing as
 you do so how complete your life will be when love enters it.Half fill
 two of the chalices with water and put them on your altar with the
 empty one between them.The partially filled chalices represent you and
 a new love,both incomplete until you are drawn together and become
 one.The empty one stands for what you can achieve together.
 Drizzle three drops of the essential oil or extract into the empty chalice,
 using some suitable words to explain the purpose of the spell. If you
 have a particular person in mind,remember to say that you acknowledge
 his or her free will and that you are not trying to interfere with it.
 Now with a picture of yourself and the other person enjoying each
 other’s company in the special way that lovers do,take one of the half
filled chalices and then the other,adding a little water from each to the
 oil/extract-charged one.Continue doing this until the two outer chalices
 are empty and the centre one is full – as full as you will feel when love
 comes into your life.
 102
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
103
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Spell for Bakers
 Not, strictly speaking, a spell,but a traditional way of sending out a
 message to a friend that you would like to take the friendship a step or
 two further and to turn friendship into love. It is up to him or her to
 respond.
 You need:
 Flour
 Water
 Yeast
 A mixing bowl
 A work surface
 A recipe book
 A loaf tin
 An oven
 Find a recipe book that tells you how to make bread and set to work.
 When you have just about finished kneading the dough, carve the
 initials of the person who has taken your fancy into it before giving it
 one last pummelling.As the bread bakes, sit by the oven,visualizing
 your friend and you on the road to romance.According to Central
 European tradition,when such a loaf is shared between the baker and the
 object of his or her attraction,serious romance is an absolute certainty.
A Spell for Those Who Change Their
 Minds
 It often happens that a relationship fails and then regrets set in and you
 decide that you would like to get the romance back on the road.This spell
 may just do the trick.Polite spell weavers may ask their old flame’s
 permission to cast the spell lest they stand accused of being manipu
lative.
 You will need:
 A red candle
 A handful of dried beans
 A small,heat-resistant bowl
 Before you light the candle, recall
 how happy you and your ex-partner
 once were and when you are full of a
 warm, nostalgic glow for the way
 you were,light the candle and see in
 its flame the feelings you and the
 other person had for each other.
 Clasp the beans in your hand and see
 them being filled with those
 feelings.Now put them in the bowl
 and move it clockwise above the
 flame (taking care not to burn
 yourself) seeing the beans as the
 catalyst that will bring you and your
 lover back together.As you do this,
 say these or similar words:
 Love that was,please be recovered.
 Let us be what we were to one another.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Later, take the beans and put them on the ground in a place that you
 know he or she walks regularly.
 104
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
105
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
 A Colourful Spell that Takes a Week
 to Cast
 This powerful spell is cast to attract love.It draws on the seven colours
 of the rainbow to lend their associated powers and by casting the spell
 over seven days,each of the major planets as well as the sun and the
 moon,give their enormous strengths to it.This makes the spell one of
 the most powerful in the grimoire.Plan the spell well in advance so that
 you start it on a Monday and the last of the magic made is on the night
 when the moon is at its fullest.Select a time of day when you know you
 will have the time to set aside to work the spell, seven nights in
 succession.The candle holders do not have to match the candles they
 hold – they can be clear or a neutral shade.The candles,at least those lit
 in the first part of the week,have to burn for a little over an hour.
 You will need:
 One violet votive candle
 One indigo votive candle
 One blue votive candle
 One green votive candle
 One yellow votive candle
 One orange votive candle
 One red votive candle
 Seven candle holders
 Arrange the candles in their holders on your altar,the violet one to the
 left, the red to the right with the others in between according to their
 place in the rainbow.Before you light the prescribed candle each night,
 visualize love flooding towards you – see each colour lending you its
 strength and see the planets smiling on your endeavours to find true
 love.Repeat this visualization after the candles have been lit.
 On a suitable Monday,the day of the moon, light the violet candle and
 say either these words or something similar:
 Through violet haze my love I call,
 When moonlit rays upon him/her fall.
 And by moon’s power help him/her see,
 Our love is seen and meant to be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
Keep the candle lit for at least ten minutes,seeing in its flame how happy
 you will be when true love comes knocking on your door, before
 extinguishing it in the usual way.
 On Tuesday,with its associations with Mars,light the indigo candle after
 you have visualized as you did the previous evening and as you light the
 flame,say:
 Indigo,shade of twilight deep,
 May my lover enjoy deep sleep.
 Mars,in his/her dreams please let him/her see,
 That he/she and I will soon be we.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 After you have focused on the flame for a moment or two,again seeing
 love in your life,light the violet candle and keep the two candles burning
 for a full ten minutes before extinguishing them.
 On Mercury’s day,Wednesday,repeat the ritual,saying as you light the
 blue candle and before lighting the violet and the indigo one:
 Candle blue please tell my love,
 We go together hand in glove.
 Mercury take a message clear,
 To my true love – far or near.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 On Thursday light the green candle and call on jovial Jupiter to bless
 your magic making in these,or similar words:
 Candle green please burn strong,
 And tell my love it won’t be long,
 ’Til Jupiter says we’ll be together,
 Not for now,but together forever.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Venus,most associated with love, is called upon on Friday when the
 yellow candle is lit,with these words or some similar:
 106
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
Candle yellow,may your flame,
 Make my lover hear my name.
 Venus,please lend your power
 And on us may your blessings shower.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Saturday is the day to light the orange candle and to call on Saturn with
 these words or words inspired by them:
 Candle orange,light the way,
 And make my lover hear me say,
 That Saturn smiles from on high,
 And by my side my love will lie.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 And on the Sunday,when the moon is full, it’s time to light the red
 candle – red the colour of passion – and call upon the sun to bless your
 love:
 Candle red and sun above,
 Kindle passion in my love.
 Let him/her know not any fear.
 The time is right.The day is here.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 After you have focused on the red flame, spend a final ten minutes
 visualizing the spectrum of colours burning.Before you extinguish each
 one, starting with the violet one and working to the right, thank the
 relevant heavenly body and when the red candle has been snuffed out,
 know that you can face the future confident that love will soon be
 knocking at your door.
 107
 Spells to Find Love y y
 y y
108
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 The Last Resort
 If none of the spells you have cast in trying to stimulate a jaded love
 affair have worked, try this one before you give up and accept that
 maybe things just weren’t meant to be.The spell is best cast on a Friday,
 the day with strong associations with Venus,as it is her power you are
 hoping to draw on.Doing it when Taurus or Libra are in the ascendant
 adds extra potency.
 You will need:
 A fresh piece of paper
 An unused pen
 Cardamom essential oil
 A crystal of malachite
 Green leaves (if the spell is being cast during Taurus)
 Royal blue or pink flowers (if the spell is being cast during Libra)
 A pair of scissors
 Write your first name and the first name of your jaded lover on the
 paper.
 If it is the sexual aspect of your relationship that needs stimulation draw
 a square round the two letters.If you are certain that this is the person
 with whom you wish to spend the rest of your life, then draw a circle
 round them.
 Holding the paper in both hands,close your eyes and with a picture of
 the other person in your mind’s eye say:
 If it be right,please let things be,
 As joyous as they used to be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words said,cut out the shape you have drawn and when the circle
 has been closed,slip the paper under your pillow.
109
 y y
 y y
 SpellsForWhenLoveis Dead

111
 Spells for When Love is Dead y y
 y y
 A Spell to Say, ‘It’s Over!’ 
Cast this spell when you know that a relationship you are in is not going
 to work,but your feelings are still such that you want to let the other
 person down gently.
 You will need:
 A small square of paper
 A fountain pen filled with black ink (a black ballpoint will do,but a
 fountain pen is best)
 A white taper candle
 A fireproof dish
 Write the name of the person you don’t want to be involved with on the
 paper.Once the ink is dry, light the candle and hold paper in its flame
 until it starts to burn.Hold the paper in front of you,trying to see the
 fumes curling round the person and wafting him or her away from you.
 When you can no longer hold the paper,drop it into the fireproof dish,
 still seeing the smoke carry him or her away.
 Take the dish outside to as high a place as possible and with the ashes
 clasped in your right hand,say some suitable words,such as:
 Wind of North,Wind of East,
 Wind of South,Wind of West,
 Take these feelings to where they best
 Be appreciated.
 Please let ***** see,
 That his/her love is not for me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words spoken,unclasp your hand and watch the ashes blow away
 with the breeze,wishing your old love well as they go.
A Spell that is Bittersweet
 This spell is made to help you pick up the pieces and get on with life after
 love has died,however hard this may be.Cast when the moon is waning,
 or in the first day or two of a new moon.The spell calls for a root of
 bittersweet,or woody nightshade.This is toxic and should be treated
 with great care.Spellcasters who do not wish to use it,may prefer to use
 a substitute.
 You will need:
 A photograph of your former lover
 A fireproof dish
 A root of bittersweet
 A red velvet bag (velvet is best,but another cloth can be used)
 Put the photograph in the fireproof dish and set it alight.As it burns,see
 all the pain you have experienced flowing from you,marrying with the
 smoke and vanishing into the ether.As they drift off say some suitable
 words,such as:
 Leave my heart and set me free.
 Please take all pain away from me.
 As my love now burns to dust,
 Help me make the moves I must.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Continue repeating the words until the picture has burned to ashes.
 Now, very carefully take the bittersweet in your hands and hold it
 against your solar plexus.Visualize your residual negative feelings
 flowing into the root.When you feel that it now contains all these
 emotions,very gently touch your forehead with the charged root as a
 way of indicating that bad feelings have gone and have been replaced by
 good ones.
 Finish by wrapping the root and the ashes of the paper in the red bag,
 and next time you are going to be a distance away from home, take it
 with you and bury it.As you do so,bring a picture of your old lover to
 mind and take a minute or two to send thoughts of friendship and peace
 to him or her.
 112
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
113
 Spells for When Love is Dead y y
 y y
 A Spell to Make Someone Accept the
 Inevitable
 We have all been in situations when we know that what was once love
 has turned to indifference.This spell makes it easier for you to make the
 other person accept the inevitable.The spell can be done on any day apart
 from a Tuesday.
 You will need:
 Pumpkin seeds
 A trowel
 A sketch of your ex smiling
 at a new love
 Take the pumpkin seeds outside
 to a place where you will be
 unseen and undisturbed.Sit on
 the ground and dig a small hole
 in front of you. Breathe in
 deeply through the nose, hold the
 breath for a moment or two more than you
 would normally, and then breathe out though
 the mouth.Do this for a minute or two and as you do so,visualize your
 old love standing in front of you.
 Now with this picture in mind, see him or her moving further and
 further away from you.As he or she recedes into the distance,take one
 of the pumpkin seeds and bite into it,before tossing it into the hole.
 Carry on doing this until you can no longer see your old
 boyfriend/girlfriend.
 Visualize how much nicer life is going to be for both of you when the
 relationship is finished.When the last pumpkin seed has been bitten into
 and dropped into the hole,lay the sketch on top of the seeds and fill the
 hole in,wishing him/her well as you do so.Now walk away and don’t,
 whatever you do,look back.
A Spell for a Love that is Slowly
 Dying
 It sometimes happens that love weakens to affection and you know that
 nothing is going to kindle its fires again.Cast this spell when you realize
 this has happened to you and you want to let your lover down gently
 and stay on friendly terms.Do the ritual during a waning moon between
 dusk and midnight.
 You will need:
 Two silver-coloured heart-shaped lockets
 A length of white cord
 A length of pink cord
 A square of dark silk or cotton
 A photograph of you and the other person
 A white candle
 Thread the lockets onto the white cord and tie the ends with a double
 knot.As you tie this,say:
 This knot bound our hearts
 But now has come the time to part.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Untie the knot,slowly,saying:
 The ties that link us may have faded
 But let our affection remain unjaded.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Very gently slide one of the lockets off the cord,saying as you do:
 I release you,for our love’s at an end,
 But please forever be my friend.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Thread the locket onto the pink cord and say:
 114
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
115
 Spells for When Love is Dead y y
 y y
 Now you are one,go in peace.
 Wrap this locket in the cloth along with the photograph and any other
 mementoes before reknotting the white cord with the other locket still
 on it.Light the candle and move the locket around its flame, thanking
 your deities for the happiness you once had and asking them that when
 the time is right you and your former lover will both find happiness
 with new partners.When the candle burns down,take the cloth package
 and put it at the bottom of a drawer you rarely open.Or if you prefer
 you can bury it in your garden.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
A Spell to Mend a Broken Heart
 Cast this spell on a Friday,the day sacred to Venus,when you have been
 let down in love and you think your heart will never mend.It will.Some
 of the ingredients may have to be specially bought:make sure that they
 are consecrated before you use them.
 You will need:
 A teabag of strawberry tea
 A willow wand
 Sea salt
 Two pink candles
 A mirror
 A pink drawstring bag
 A crystal of quartz
 A copper coin
 A crystal bowl that has some sentimental value to you
 One teaspoon of orris root powder
 One teaspoon of dried jasmine
 One teaspoon of yarrow
 A small handful of strawberry leaves
 Ten drops of apple blossom essential oil
 Ten drops of strawberry essential oil
 Place one of the pink candles at the end of a bath and start to fill it with
 warm water.With the water running,prepare a cup of strawberry tea.
 When the bath is ready, light the candle and soak in the warm water
 until you feel relaxed enough to weave the spell.As you dry off,sip the
 strawberry tea and then dab the strawberry oil around your face.
 Make your way to your altar and cast a circle with the willow wand.Now
 light the second pink candle and put the other ingredients into the bowl.
 Stir them thoroughly,saying as you do:
 Mother Earth I ask you for nurture and protection.
 Give me the confidence to use the strengths I have.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 When everything is thoroughly mixed, look at your reflection in the
 mirror and say:
 116
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
117
 Spells for When Love is Dead y y
 y y
 Mother Earth,help me to be the person I know I am,
 And let me overcome my difficulty.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Pour half the mixture into the drawstring bag along with the coin and
 the crystal and close the magic making in the usual way.Leave the bowl
 containing the other half in a place where you will be able to enjoy the
 fragrance.Keep the bag with you at all times and sleep with it under
 your pillow until you feel that your broken heart is healing.

119
 y y
 y y
 Spells to Settle Arguments

121
 Spells to Settle Arguments y y
 y y
 A Spell to Restore Friendship
 Maples,horse chestnuts,mistletoe and ash trees have long been used to
 restore peace where quarrels have broken out.If you can find one that is
 divided just above the base of the trunk so that you can climb through it
 with little difficulty,all the better.
 You will need:
 An old scarf long enough to go right round the tree
 Holding the scarf in your hand you pass through the cleft in the tree
 nine times counter-clockwise saying:
 Where there is pain,
 Let friendship now reign.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 If you cannot climb through the tree,simply walk around it.
 Now do the same again,nine times clockwise,saying:
 May bitterness end,
 And ill feelings mend.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now loop the scarf right round the tree and tie three knots to bind the
 ends together.As you tie the knots say:
 Knot one,sorrow end.
 Knot two,be us friend
 Knot three,heal the pain,
 Let love flow again.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 After you have thanked the tree for its grace,make your way home and
 ask yourself if there is any reason not to make a gesture of reconciliation
 towards the person with whom you have quarrelled.And even if you
 think there is,why not ignore it and make one anyway? 
A Spell to Help Feuding Families
 All families go through times when its members are at loggerheads and
 the atmosphere is poisonous.Usually peace is restored almost as soon as
 hostilities commence,but there are occasions when it looks as if nothing
 is going to bring people to their senses.This is the spell to use at these
 times.It is most potent on a Friday night.
 You will need:
 A pink taper candle
 A bowl of water
 Some rose essential oil or a crystal of rose quartz
 Tuberose,morning glory,violets or meadowsweet
 When everyone else is asleep,take the ingredients to your sacred space
 and consecrate them before lighting the candle.Spend some time focused
 on the flame,seeing it getting larger and larger and burning brighter and
 brighter, filling the house with peace and banishing all discordant
 vibrations.Don’t be tempted to rush this.Spend as long as it takes until
 the visualization is complete.
 Drizzle a few drops of the oil into the water or place the rose quartz in
 the water,before holding each bloom up to the candle flame and see
 them one by one being charged with peace and love.That done,take the
 flowers and the water round the house,room by room, inside and out,
 dipping the flowers into the water and using them to sprinkle it around,
 seeing love and peace rain down with each droplet.Sprinkle a little extra
 water in rooms where arguments seem to break out most – usually the
 kitchen or bathroom! And as you go,very softly say aloud:
 Water gentle.Flower bright.
 Restore peace and love here tonight.
 Make my family a happy one.
 By my will,this spell is done.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 It shouldn’t be too long until everyone is talking to each other again.
 122
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
123
 Spells to Settle Arguments y y
 y y
 A Spell to Stop Family Arguments
 There’s nothing more unsettling than being involved in a squabble with
 one or more members of your family that looks as if it could deepen into
 a full-blown row with all the unnerving and long-term consequences
 that may follow.This spell should help restore peace.You may have to
 resort to subterfuge (or a comb or hairbrush to get some of the things
 you will need!) but the effort should be worth it.
 You will need:
 A hair from your own head and from the
 person/s you are squabbling with
 Red thread
 A light blue taper candle
 Petals from a deep-red rose
 Rub the hairs between your
 fingers to twist them together,
 and wind them round the red
 thread in the same way. Twine
 them clockwise three times round the
 candle,about a third of the way down,and
 put the candle in the centre of a
 pentagram made from the rose petals.
 When you feel the moment is right,
 light the candle and focus on the flame
 for a moment or two, visualizing how
 much better life will be when harmony has
 been restored.Now say something along these lines:
 Among those with whom I live my life,
 Please send harmony to replace strife.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The spell is cast when the candle burns down through the thread.Now
 why not take the first step in making up? Pride can be hard to swallow,
 but the effort will probably be well worth it.
A Spell for Friends Who Have Fallen
 Out
 If you have argued with a friend and want to make up but are unwilling
 to take the first steps, this is the spell for you. It is best done during a
 waxing moon but if you are really desperate that peaceful relations be
 restored,then there is no reason why it can’t be cast when the moon is
 waning.Don’t cast it though during the three days when the moon is
 dark.It simply won’t work.
 You will need:
 A photograph or something belonging to the other person
 A photograph of yourself
 A paper clip
 Basil essential oil
 Some nettles
 A crystal of garnet
 Clip the two photographs together.Or if you are using something
 belonging to the other person,clip your photograph to it.Now say:
 Let friendship and harmony be restored.
 On troubled waters,oil has poured.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 And that’s all there is to it.
 After you have brought the magic making to an end, take what it was
 you clipped together and put them at the bottom of a drawer you don’t
 open very often.If after a week has passed there has been no response,
 you could repeat the spell.Or you could take the first step and make that
 peace-restoring call.And what could be more magical than that?
 124
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
125
 Spells to Settle Arguments y y
 y y
 A Spell for Burying the Hatchet
 This spell is cast, in the words of St Francis of Assisi, ‘to bring peace
 where there is strife’ within a family or a friendship.Everyone involved
 has to be present and even if they don’t believe in magic making,they
 must not laugh or scoff at it.The spell is inspired by the phrase ‘bury the
 hatchet’ and comes to us from the southern states of the USA and the
 Caribbean where voodoo still has a hold on many people.Voodoo may
 have an unsavoury reputation,but many of its spells are innocent and
 are to be cast with good intent.
 You will need:
 A sapling tree or a young shrub that will grow to a fair size in
 maturity
 An unused hatchet 
Ribbons of the astrological colours appropriate to each member of
 the family or those involved in the friendship
 A strand of hair from each person 
A spade
 Dig a hole deep enough to support the sapling or shrub and drop the
 hairs into the bottom.As each one goes in,visualize the ill feeling in that
 person (not forgetting your own) evaporating and being replaced by
 good will.Now tie the ribbons round the hatchet and ask everyone to
 form a circle round the hole.Pass the hatchet counter-clockwise round
 the circle asking each person to hold it for a few moments: they can
 remain silent or say any appropriate words that come into their heads
 before passing it on to the next person.
 This done,lay the hatchet on the upturned palms of each person’s hands
 before putting it into the hole.Now everyone takes a gentle hold of the
 tree or shrub and puts it into the ground,on top of the hatchet.
 As the hole is filled,visualize the argument being buried for good,along
 with the hatchet.And if some suitable words come to mind,don’t be
 afraid to say them.
126
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell to Mend a Lovers’ Quarrel
 Cast this spell at midnight after you and your lover have argued so badly
 that things seem to be at an end.
 You will need:
 Two silver pins
 A red candle
 Any red crystal
 Some red flowers
 A red altar cloth
 Spread the cloth on your altar.Put the candle in the middle and arrange
 the flowers and crystal around it.Once the opening rituals have been
 completed,pierce the candle with the two silver pins,one higher than the
 other, and light it.Focus your thoughts on your lover and when the
 flame reaches the first pin say aloud:
 To the Spirit of Love I now attend,
 Don’t let our love come to an end.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Repeat this until the flame reaches the second pin,then say:
 May ***** and I be one again,
 By the warmth of this candle flame.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 When the candle burns out bring the ritual to an end.And now for the
 hard part.Even if you feel you were blameless in the break-up,swallow
 your pride and make that telephone call.Your humility will be well
 rewarded.
127
 y y
 y y
 Spells for Health

129
 Spells for Health y y
 y y
 A Spell to Restore Good Health
 When Pisces is in the ascendant and the moon is nearing fullness,find a
 suitable Sunday to cast this spell to restore someone to health.Green or
 yellow altar decorations are the most appropriate.
 You will need:
 Something cast from gold
 A white altar candle
 A green taper candle
 A dish of daffodils or yellow roses
 A crystal of clear crystal quartz
 Light the white candle,focus on it for a 
few moments and visualize the person
 to whom the spell is being directed as
 being in perfect health. (There is no reason
 why that person should not be you.) With a
 picture of the ill person as he or she is now in the
 mind’s eye, light the green candle and as the flame grows brighter,see
 their health improve.
 With the flame burning at its brightest say aloud:
 Body be healthy.Body be strong.
 Sing out voice in happy song.
 Perfect health to ***** restore,
 And may it stay so evermore.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Allow the candles to burn out before bringing the ceremony to an end.
A Spell for Healing
 Cast on a Sunday evening during Pisces.The closer to the new moon the
 better.The spell demands a green candle and green altar decorations but
 if there is no green candle available,a yellow or violet one will do.But
 remember to substitute matching altar decorations.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond oil (or any suitable carrier oil)
 Sandalwood essential oil
 A bottle
 A crystal of quartz
 A sprig of lavender 
A white altar candle 
A green taper candle (see above) 
A bolline or burin
 Add three drops of sandalwood oil to the carrier oil and empower it by
 rolling the bottle between the palms of your hands.Light the white
 candle and meditate on how much better life will be for either you or
 whoever you are directing the spell to when their health improves.
 Inscribe the green candle with the number ‘3’ and anoint it with the
 charged oil,drawing the oil towards you if you are casting the spell for
 your own benefit,away from you if it is being cast for the benefit of
 someone else. As you bless the candle, visualize that you are
 empowering it with glowing health.
 Light the candle and say:
 Sure and quickly healing flow,
 Please make ******’s illness go.
 Powers that be I request,
 You let it be,and for the best.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Bring the spell making to an end and go back to the more mundane
 things in life,confident of a healthier future for yourself or your friend.
 130
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
131
 Spells for Health y y
 y y
 A Healing Spell that Uses Knots
 Using knot magic and a simple incantation can help to restore health
 either to yourself or someone else.This spell draws on the power of the
 number ‘6’,which is associated with the sun,drawing from it all that
 celestial body’s restorative and regenerative power.The number is also
 linked with nurturing,family love and service to others,which makes it
 an appropriate spell to cast on behalf of someone else.And as royal blue
 and indigo are the colours associated with ‘6’,using a cord of either of
 these hues strengthens the magic.
 You will need:
 A piece of cord just over eight inches
 long
 Salt
 A tin
 Paper
 A fountain pen
 Sealing wax or Sellotape
 Mark the cord at six equal
 intervals so that you have
 seven equal lengths.Tie a knot
 at each mark, starting with the two
 central ones,then the ones at either end,finishing
 with the ones in between,saying each time you tie a knot:
 Sickness,no one needs you to stay.
 If you please,go away.
 By these knots I say,‘Depart!’ 
And leave me/**** in better heart.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now write the words of the incantation on the paper,put the cord in the
 tin and fill it with salt.Seal the tin with the paper and bury it under a
 favourite tree or bush.
A Spell with a Basket 
If someone you know is in low spirits or perhaps in ill health,wish him
 or her well with this charmed basket.
 You will need:
 A wicker basket with a handle
 A suitable plant (if you have grown it yourself,so much the better)
 A flowerpot that will fit into the basket
 Three spiral seashells
 An amethyst crystal
 A piece of rose quartz
 Choose a plant that is appropriate to your friend’s condition or illness.If
 he or she is feeling vaguely unwell,some larkspur or pimpernel would
 be a good choice,and if the plant is sweet smelling,so much the better.
 Put the shells,amethyst and rose quartz outside in a spot that catches the
 moonlight and leave them there for the seven nights before the moon is
 at her fullest, to charge them with her energy. First thing on the
 morning after the full moon,plant the chosen plant and wash its leaves
 with dew.If the plant has leaves and tendrils long enough,weave them
 around the handle of the basket.Lay the moon-charged shells and stones
 on the soil and say:
 As with love this gift is given,
 May ****** from ******* be driven.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 132
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
133
 Spells for Health y y
 y y
 A Spell to Break Unhealthy Habits
 If you smoke too much and want to quit,drink more than your fair share
 and know it,or eat a bit too much and are a few pounds overweight but
 find it impossible to stick to a diet,this spell should help.
 You will need:
 A flowerpot
 Potting compost
 Hyacinth bulbs or some sweet-smelling herbs
 Fill the pot with the compost and plant your bulbs or herbs.As you do
 this, see yourself addiction-free or sticking to your diet, and looking
 much healthier as a result.Pat the compost nine times with your finger,
 saying:
 Oh Powers that make these bulbs/herbs to grow,
 I ask that my addiction too shall go.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Next time you find yourself giving into temptation (and let’s face it we
 are all human) take the offending cigarette,drink or bun to somewhere
 you can shred it or pour it into a suitable container.Take this to the
 flowerpot and plant or pour a tiny amount into the soil and say:
 Mother Earth,I bury this that you may,
 Give it new life,through decay.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Inhale the fragrance of the plant,thanking Mother Earth for her grace
 and dispose of the rest of the offending substance.Next time you are
 tempted,go to the pot and smell the plants,again thanking Mother Earth
 for the lovely aroma.
 Some people who have used this spell plant two lots of bulbs or herbs
 and keep one at home and another in the workplace.
A Spell for Women of a Certain Age
 Apart from giving birth,perhaps the most demanding time in a woman’s
 life is when she is going through the menopause.The physical changes
 taking place within the body are accompanied by all sorts of negative
 emotions.This spell should help women who are going through or
 approaching ‘the change’,enable them to see it as a transitory thing and
 that they can emerge from it as ‘new women’ in every sense of the
 phrase.The spell should be cast out of doors.
 You will need:
 Seven sprigs of broom
 A length of orange ribbon
 Two ears of wheat
 A sprig of rose-hips or some hawthorn berries on the twig
 Some fresh lavender
 The petals from a red flower or,in autumn,some red leaves
 Some sand
 Seven ice cubes
 A bowl
 Bind the broom sprigs with the orange ribbon and put the broom they
 form to one side for the time being.Lay the wheat on the grass, the
 stems crossed.Put the rose-hips or hawthorn berries on top of them and
 sprinkle them with the lavender.Sprinkle the sand in a circle,the radius
 of which should be a little wider than your outstretched arms.Lay the
 petals or leaves in a circle just beyond the sand.Use the ice cubes to form
 a circle around the lavender-scented wheat and hips/berries.Kneel on the
 ground, just outside the circle, then lean forward with your hands
 touching the ground on either side of the sand/petal circle.Now lean
 back and watch the ice cubes melt.As they do so,trace a hand three times
 counter-clockwise around the circle,saying:
 Tensions go with melting ice,
 As I bless this circle,thrice.
 Remembered pleasure.Forgotten sorrow.
 Help me smile on my tomorrow.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 134
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
135
 Spells for Health y y
 y y
 When the ice cubes have melted,sweep up all the other ingredients with
 the bound broom sprigs.Put them in the bowl and scatter them on a
 flower or herbaceous border,saying:
 May the changes happening deep within,
 Make me a stronger and wiser woman.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 You will get through it.Very few women don’t and there’s no reason
 why you should be one of those who see their life as permanently
 blighted by the menopause.
A Spell to Help Conquer Dependence
 We live in stressful times and,sadly,many of us turn to alcohol or other
 props to help us cope with the pressure of modern life.Willpower is,
 needless to say,the key to helping us lessen our reliance on them.But
 sometimes willpower needs a little help.This spell may just do the trick
 for those who know deep inside that they are abusing alcohol.It should
 never be cast by recovering alcoholics for whom one sip of alcohol can
 reverse the progress already made.The spell can also be cast to help
 others overcome their dependence. It should be cast outside in a
 sheltered spot where the candles will burn without danger of the breeze
 blowing them out.
 You will need:
 A crystal of amethyst
 An orange taper candle
 A purple taper candle
 A red taper candle
 A glass of wine
 Put one candle at each point of an imaginary triangle large enough for
 you to sit within.Sit cross-legged facing the orange candle,the red one
 behind you to the left and the purple one behind you to the right.Put
 the wine between you and the orange candle,with the crystal alongside
 it.Before you light the candles, take several deep breaths through the
 nose,and hold them for a count of seven before breathing out through
 the mouth.As you inhale and exhale, visualize the crystal becoming
 empowered with your willpower.When you feel ready,light the candles,
 take the crystal in your hand and clasping it tightly,say:
 Orange candle,please restore my balance.
 Purple candle,please restore my inner harmony.
 Red candle please restore my courage,
 That I may live my life,dependence-free.
 Crystal I know I need your power.
 Grant that it around me shower.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 These words (or words of similar sentiment) spoken,return the crystal
 136
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
137
 Spells for Health y y
 y y
 to the ground and pick up the wine glass.Take one sip of wine and say:
 Powers that will,please help me see,
 I need not alcohol to be me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 If you don’t want to swallow the wine,spit it back into the wine glass,
 before pouring its contents around the outside of the circle,saying:
 What came from the earth I now return,
 Its power o’er me no longer burn.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Pick up the crystal,saying:
 Please be with me every hour,
 Protecting me from alcohol’s power.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Keep the crystal in your pocket or handbag and
 whenever you feel the temptation to have a
 drink,simply excuse yourself from the company
 you are in,go to the lavatory, take the crystal in
 your hand and repeat the last invocation.
 The spell can also be cast to help overcome other
 addictions by substituting a cigarette or whatever for
 the wine.
138
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Kite Spell for Health
 People of the Far East have used kites for thousands of years to carry
 their messages to their gods.Why not follow their example? If you don’t
 want to go to the expense of buying a kite,you can easily make one.The
 spell is best cast on a breezy day!
 You will need:
 A kite (one with not too strong string is best!)
 Suitably coloured ribbons 
Scraps of paper
 A pen (if you choose one appropriately coloured for the illness,so
 much the better)
 String
 Tie the ribbons to the kite and write down your wish for improved
 health or recovery from a specific disease/condition on the scraps of
 paper.
 Tie these to the tail of the kite and as you do,say:
 Knot I tie,
 Kite I fly,
 Cast my wishes,
 In the sky.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Make sure the tail is tied not too tightly to the kite before taking it
 outside to a hilltop or somewhere you can fly the kite.Let it soar into the
 sky and as it goes higher and higher,repeat the invocation.Keep hold of
 the string,feeling it become tighter and tighter until it snaps and the kite
 is free to fly in the wind, taking your wishes with it.Watch it go,
 shouting at the top of your voice:
 Powers that be,
 I ask you to see,
 That I be free,
 From illness
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Let your hopes soar with the kite and good health will come back.
139
 y y
 y y
 Spells to Attract Money

141
 Spells to Attract Money y y
 y y
 A Spell to Attract Cash
 This draws on the power of the element of air to bring you some extra
 cash within a week and a day.
 You will need:
 A square of green cloth
 Allspice
 Borage
 Lavender
 Saffron (which is expensive so use it sparingly)
 Three silver coins (if you have old silver threepenny pieces
 commonly put in Christmas puddings,so much the better)
 Gold thread
 Silver thread
 Breathe on each of the silver coins in turn,saying something along the
 lines of:
 Spirit of Air,to you I pray,
 Send some money down my way.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now put the coins and the spices in the bag.Tie four knots in the gold
 thread and four in the silver and use the knotted threads to tie the bag.
 Put the bag in a safe place – preferably a cool,dark one – and leave it
 there for eight days.If by then some extra money has not winged its way
 in your direction then cast the spell again… like all spells it may take
 some time to weave its magic.
A Spell to Make You Think About
 Money
 Before you make this particular piece of magic,think about your attitude
 to money for a little time.Do you squander it like a reckless spendthrift?
 Or are you a veritable skinflint? If you have money problems,visualize
 what life would be like if they evaporated.And think how much you
 would need to see yourself as financially comfortable.
 You will need:
 A small bowl
 Seven coins
 A green taper candle
 Put everything on your altar along with lucky charms and talismans
 whose power strengthens your magic.And if you decorate the altar with
 a green cloth and some glossy leaves,all the better.
 Once a day,drop one of the coins into the dish and on the seventh day,
 pick up the candle and, thinking about the opportunities having more
 money would create for you,visualize prosperity flowing into it.When
 you feel the time is right,put the candle in the middle of the altar,pick
 up the dish with your right hand and let the coins cascade into your left
 one.
 Place one of the coins in front of it,saying:
 May more money flow my way,
 Now and every other day.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Put another coin to the left of the first and repeat the incantation.
 Continue doing this with each of the coins in turn until you have made
 a circle around the candle.When the circle is complete, light the candle
 and visualize the seven coins investing the candle with their power
 before sending it out into the atmosphere.
 As the candle burns,focus on its flame and think again about your
 142
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
143
 Spells to Attract Money y y
 y y
 attitude to money and how it could be changed to make you a financially
 more responsible person. (If you were already such a person, you
 wouldn’t be casting this spell!) When the candle has burned out or the
 time has come for you to extinguish it,return the coins to the bowl.Each
 day put one of the coins in your pocket along with your loose change,
 replacing it with one or two from the change left over from the previous
 day.And if you make sure that there are always at least seven coins in
 the bowl,you will find that you are becoming a more financially acute
 person and opportunities to make more money will come to you. It is,
 needless to say,up to you whether or not you recognize them and,once
 recognized,seize them! 
A Spell to Make a Money Bottle
 This spell has its roots in voodoo and originally called for Spanish gold
 or silver coins! Adapted for the 21st century,it still retains its power to
 draw money to the spellweaver.The ingredients call for five of various
 things: ‘5’ like all numbers from ‘1’ to ‘9’ has its own significance. Its
 sign is Gemini,so if this spell is cast when that sign rules, it will be all
 the more powerful.It is associated with freedom and risk-taking,change,
 quick thinking,youth and communication.
 You will need:
 Five pennies
 Five nickels
 Five dimes
 Five quarters
 Five cloves
 Five kernels of dried corn
 Five cinnamon sticks
 Five teaspoons of dried flour
 Five sesame seeds
 Five pecan nuts
 Five allspice
 Five grains of rice
 One tall,thin glass bottle 
Put all the ingredients in the bottle.(As ‘5’ is associated with the colour
 turquoise,a bottle of that colour would add potency to the spell.) Ensure
 that the top is secure before giving the bottle a good shake for five
 minutes and saying such words as:
 Copper gleam.Silver shine.
 I ask you please to make wealth mine.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Put the money bottle on the table where you leave your wallet and loose
 change when you empty your pockets, or, if you make your magic
 unknown to others, then you can bury the money bottle near your
 home.
 144
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
145
 Spells to Attract Money y y
 y y
 A Spell that Uses Seaweed
 If you have suffered any sort of financial reverses, this spell will help
 you to turn the tide.The ritual is performed on a beach when the tide is
 at its height.If you are wealthy enough,use a real pearl! Otherwise,a
 mother-of-pearl button will do.
 You will need:
 Two oyster or mussel shells 
A pearl or a mother-of-pearl button
 Seaweed
 Green twine
 A stick
 Put the pearl inside the shells,holding them open side to open side and
 cover them with seaweed.Bind the seaweed parcel together with the
 twine.Draw a circle in the sand with the stick, just above the tide line.
 Put the shells into the circle and when it is covered by an incoming wave,
 say:
 I return what was yours,Great Sea,
 Please restore my prosperity.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Some magic makers who have profited from this spell wait until the tide
 turns and cast the bound shells into the seventh wave.
A Spell to Cast on a Beach
 Another spell asking for money and another spell cast on a beach.And
 why not? In these days when there is so much pressure on our pockets,
 anything to boost the bank balance is to be welcomed.This time the spell
 is cast at sunset.
 You will need:
 Seven gold or gold-coloured coins
 A gold-coloured fabric bag
 With the sun behind you,put the coins into the bag and wade out to sea
 a little,following the reflection of the sun’s rays on the water,which you
 should try to see as a golden pathway, leading to the horizon.Take one
 of the coins out of the bag and drop it into the water,saying:
 Setting sun cast gold on sea,
 And bring prosperity to me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Paddle out a little further and drop the second coin into the waves,
 repeating the words of the spell and continue until all the coins have
 been cast.The spell works more efficiently if the coins are dropped on
 seven successive waves.When the last coin has been cast,walk round in
 a clockwise circle seven times,visualizing money filling the now empty
 bag,then follow the golden path back to the beach.
 146
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
147
 Spells to Attract Money y y
 y y
 A Spell that Banishes Poverty
 Say goodbye to poverty with this spell that is popular in the Caribbean
 and with spell weavers who live in the southern states of the USA.
 You will need:
 A small bowl
 Salt
 Sugar
 Rice
 An open safety pin
 Fill the bowl with equal amounts of sugar, salt and rice.Put the open
 safety pin in the middle of the bowl.As you do so use your own words
 to ask the elements or the deities you believe in to ensure that no matter
 how long you live you will always have food in your stomach,money in
 your pocket and a roof over your head.
 If you have a garden,put the bowl in a sheltered spot.Or if you live in
 a flat you can put it on a sheltered window ledge.When the contents of
 the bowl are gathering dust, they can be replaced with suitably
 consecrated ones whenever necessary.
A Spell that Reflects the Moon’s
 Power
 According to tradition,seeing the moon through glass is bad luck and
 will reverse any magic being made.But casting an image of Lady Moon
 on a mirror weaves magic that can be used to attract money.
 You will need:
 A drill
 A gold-coloured coin
 An eight-sided mirror
 On a night when the moon is full,drill a hole in the coin and position
 the mirror so that you catch Her image on it.Hold the coin up so that
 the moon’s light shines through the hole,watching the gold rays cast by
 the coin merge with the silver rays of the moon.Focus on this and say:
 Lady Moon,I ask this hour,
 For money on me to shower,
 I ask for silver and for gold,
 Before the moon grows old.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 148
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
149
 Spells to Attract Money y y
 y y
 A Coin Spell to Bring Wealth 
If you can do this spell on a Sunday when Leo is in the ascendant,then
 all the better.Avoid weaving it when the moon is waning.If you bathe
 before making magic,add three drops of rose essential oil to the bath
 water and after you have dried yourself off,wear something special.
 You will need:
 One or two gold or silver objects
 One yellow taper candle
 One white altar candle
 A small piece of coal
 A dish of salt 
A dish of silver coins
 Jewellery inlaid with diamonds,jade or rubies
 Your purse or wallet
 A piece of paper and pencil
 Light the white candle then kneel in front of the altar and meditate on
 your current financial position.No matter how bad it is, see yourself
 putting money into your bank account,and paying off all your creditors
 one by one.
 Now light the yellow candle and,without asking for the impossible,
 write down the sum of money you think you would need to pay off your
 debts,with a little extra for a special treat.Use the flame from the yellow
 candle to light the paper you have written on,then drop it in a fireproof
 dish.See the smoke carry your wishes to whichever deity your altar is
 dedicated.
 Visualize yourself bathed in golden sunshine,stand to your full height
 and with arms outstretched above your head say:
 Coins that sparkle in the sun,
 Come to me when work is done.
 Make me richer so I may see,
 Wealth aplenty come to me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Let the candle burn down or extinguish it gently before closing your
 ritual.
150
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell that Asks for Prosperity
 This spell invokes the mystical power of the number ‘9’ to ask for a
 prosperous future.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of carrier oil
 Rose essential oil
 A small bottle
 Any ornament that is precious to you
 Any crystal that has the reputation of bringing wealth,such as ruby
 or tiger’s eye
 A piece of jewellery
 An item of gold or silver
 One white altar candle
 One gold taper candle
 A bolline or burin
 Pour the carrier oil into the bottle.Add three drops of rose essential oil
 and holding the bottle between the palms of the hands,roll it backwards
 and forwards until the oils are well mixed.As you do this,visualize the
 oil being blessed with the power of good fortune.
 Carve the number ‘9’ on the gold candle and return it to its holder.Pour
 some of the oil over your hands and rub them together until they start
 to feel warm.As you rub,visualize that you are charging your hands
 with the energy in the oil.Take the inscribed candle and anoint it with
 the oil,drawing in from the centre back towards you.Again visualize
 that you are empowering the candle with the power to draw prosperity
 to you.Roll the candle between your hands for a minute or two,before
 returning it to its holder and lighting it.Focus your attention on the
 flame and repeat:
 As the flowers do bloom in spring,
 Gods and elements to me wealth bring.
 By your powers,banish strife,
 And bring enrichment to my life.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Once the candle has burned down or, if time is short, you have
 extinguished it in the usual way,bring your ritual to an end.
151
 y y
 y y
 Spells for Job Seekers

153
 Spells for Job Seekers y y
 y y
 A Spell for Those with Interviews in
 the Offing
 If you have an important job interview coming up,the power of this spell
 could boost your chances of success.Do it on a Wednesday,when the
 moon is waxing,but not waning.If the interview has been scheduled for
 the weeks when either Gemini or Virgo rule,so much the better.Almond
 blossom makes an appropriate altar adornment and if you have a silver
 cloth at hand, then use it. If not,an indigo one will do almost as well.
 Amethyst or tiger's eye are the most suitable crystals,and a bowl of dill
 on the altar will add potency to the magic being made.
 You will need:
 Some silver tinted leaves,e.g.silver birch
 Your career résumé,educational certificates
 The ad describing the job you want
 One white altar candle
 One silver taper candle
 Light the white candle and,focusing on the flame,spend a minute or two
 meditating on the job you want.See yourself shaking hands with the
 interviewer and imagine yourself doing the job successfully.Ask your
 favourite deity or deities to smile on your endeavours before lighting the
 silver candle.Then,standing in front of the altar with your arms at full
 stretch above your head,say:
 The job I want is in my ken.
 Make me first among all men,
 May those who interview me see,
 That the one they need is me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 As the candles burn down, again see yourself doing the job until the
 flames flicker and die or time runs out and you have to snuff them out.
 Thank the elements for their presence and bring the ritual to an end.
A Spell to Make that Dream Job
 Yours
 Use the three preceding ‘dark days’ to give your magic making skills
 time to rest and refresh themselves,before beginning this spell on the
 night of the new moon.The brown candles represent the job you want
 and the green candle is burned because green is a colour associated with
 prosperity.The fourth candle represents you or the person for whom the
 spell is being cast. It will add potency to your magic if it is the colour
 associated with your/his or her astrological sign.As this is one occasion
 when the candles used must be allowed to burn out rather than be
 extinguished,set an appropriate amount of time aside for it.
 You will need:
 Two brown candles 
One green candle
 One personal candle
 Incense associated with prosperity,such as ginger or cinnamon 
A similar essential oil
 Anoint all the candles with the oil,working towards yourself if you are
 casting the spell on your own behalf,away from you if you are casting
 the spell on someone else’s behalf.Then place one of the brown candles
 in the centre of your altar with the green candle on the right and the
 personal candle on the left.Light the personal candle,saying as you do
 so:
 Please open the way
 Please clear my/****’s sight,
 Bring me/**** the chance,
 That is mine/*****’s by right.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Light the green candle and say:
 Good luck be mine/*****’s,and victory
 With your help will come my/*****’s way.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 154
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
Now light the brown candle and say:
 Opportunities and rewards I see,
 And as I do,so must it be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 On each of the following seven nights (or until it has burned out) light
 the second brown candle for nine minutes and, focusing on its flame,
 meditate on the job you want or the one you want the other person to
 get.Think how much better things will be when the magic has cast its
 spell – and believe that it will work.
 155
 Spells for Job Seekers y y
 y y
A Spell that’s Worth the Wait
 This spell takes time to cast its magic.The phase of the moon is vital.The
 first part should be done during the waning moon and finish the night
 before the new moon appears.You are using the power of the dark moon
 to banish and get rid of what it is that is holding you back from getting
 your dream job.The second part,aimed at new beginnings, should be
 started on the night of the new moon.Although it can be cast at any time
 of day,it is best done at nine in the evening,or at midnight.It is powerful
 magic and well worth the wait.
 You will need:
 One large black candle 
A banishing essential oil, such as yarrow or one bought from a
 specialist shop
 A bolline or burin
 Two pieces of parchment
 An ink pen
 A green candle
 Bergamot or another essential oil that draws money or success
 A yellow candle (or one in a colour associated with your favourite
 deity)
 Inscribe on the black candle the things that are holding you back 
nerves,lack of experience,whatever,and write the same things on one of
 the pieces of parchment.
 Dress the candle with the banishing oil and light it every night for nine
 nights, timing it so that on the ninth night the candle will burn out.
 Focus on the flame,visualizing the things you see as holding you back
 disappearing.On the ninth night,burn the parchment you wrote these
 things on and when the ashes are cool, take them outside and scatter
 them in the wind,watching the last of the reins on your ambitions
 vanish.
 Now focus on the job you want and what you would like it to yield for
 you. Inscribe these on the green candle and write them on the second
 piece of parchment,then anoint the candle with the drawing oil.For the
 next four nights,light the candle at the same time each night and see in
 the flame the things you want coming your way and how good life will
 156
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
be when you have them.On the fourth night,burn the second piece of
 parchment and extinguish the candle with a snuffer or between finger
 and thumb. Put the candle stub and the ashes in a box and keep it
 somewhere safe.
 If appropriate words come to mind at any time during the magic making,
 don’t let any inhibitions prevent you from saying them.
 On the night after the green candle was finally extinguished, light the
 third candle as a gesture of thanks to your deities and thank them for
 being with you during your magic making,not forgetting to finish with
 the words,‘And let it be done,that it harm no one.’
 157
 Spells for Job Seekers y y
 y y
A Spell to Get the Right Job for You
 Try this spell to boost your chances of getting not just any job,but one
 that is tailor-made for you.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond or any suitable carrier oil
 Lemongrass pure essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 An indigo tablecloth
 A crystal of amethyst
 The Help Wanted column from the newspaper you read
 School and further education certificates
 One white altar candle
 One silver candle
 A bolline or burin
 Drizzle three drops of the lemongrass oil into the carrier oil and mix the
 two by rubbing the mixing bottle between the palms of your hands until
 you feel that it is charged with your ambition.Light the white candle
 and meditate quietly on the purpose of the spell.When you feel the time
 is right,inscribe the number ‘3’ onto the silver candle with the burin and
 then anoint it with the oil.Make sure you rub from the middle in as you
 are drawing something towards you.Now light the candle,focus on its
 flame and say:
 Please carry to me the news,
 That I will get an interview.
 That I may be given the chance
 My career prospects to enhance.
 And let it be done,that it harms no one.
 When the candles have burned down or time runs out and you have to
 extinguish them,bring your magic making to an end in the usual way
 and wait for the post to come with that letter or the phone to ring with
 that news you want to hear.
 158
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
159
 Spells for Job Seekers y y
 y y
 A Spell to Get a Career Moving
 Use the power of a candle anointed with charged neroli essential oil to
 create exciting job opportunities either for yourself or someone else.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond or any suitable carrier oil
 Neroli essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 Any suitable favourite herb
 Any suitable favourite essential oil
 A piece of sun stone
 One white altar candle
 One gold or yellow taper candle
 A bolline or burin
 Add three drops of the neroli oil to the carrier oil and charge by rolling
 the mixing bottle between the palms of your hands and visualizing the
 oil being empowered with gratitude.
 When you feel ready,light the white altar candle and meditate for a few
 minutes on job opportunities before inscribing the gold candle with the
 number '7' and anointing it with the charged oil. If you are hoping to
 create opportunities for yourself draw the oil towards you: if you are
 sending out opportunities,work away from yourself.
 Light the candle,stand in front of the altar and say:
 Job opportunities please come my/*****'s way,
 On this very blessed day.
 Change my/****'s life and make it better,
 Thanks to you,the true begetter.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 When the candles have burned down and you have visualized that the
 opportunity has been created, received and benefited, close the magic
 making as you normally do.
A Spell to Cast on the New Moon
 Once you have made the decision to look for a new job,start to cast this
 spell on the first night of a new moon.The brown candles stand for the
 job and the green one for prosperity.The fourth candle is your personal
 candle and should be of a colour associated with your astrological sign.
 If you are casting the spell for someone else,use a candle of his or her
 astrological colour.
 You will need:
 Two brown candles
 One green candle
 One astrologically compatible coloured candle
 Cinnamon essential oil 
An oil burner
 A favourite talisman of whoever the spell is directed to
 Position one of the brown candles in the centre of the altar,the green one
 to its right and the personal candle to the left.Put the burner containing
 the essential oil in front of the brown candle and lay the second brown
 candle on its side in front of it.Put the talisman in front of the personal
 candle.
 Light the personal candle and as you focus on the flame,say:
 Spirit of fire,clear my/****’s sight,
 And bring me/**** chances mine/****’s by right.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now light the green candle and focusing on the flame,say:
 New horizons stretch out for me/****,
 May fortune be mine/his/hers.And prosperity.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 See yourself or your friend in a position of authority for a minute or two
 before lighting the brown candle and saying:
 160
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
161
 Spells for Job Seekers y y
 y y
 New job,new responsibility.
 As I will them,let them be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Extinguish the candles and bring the ritual to an end,but leave things as
 they are on the altar.For the next six nights,or until the candles have
 burned out,invite the elements into your workspace and light the second
 brown candle. Let it burn for nine minutes, focusing on your/your
 friend’s ambitions and the good that you/they will do in achieving them.
 The spell is now finally cast.
162
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell to Make a Job Opportunity
 Come Knocking at Your Door
 Cast this spell on a Sunday during Leo, when you want a fresh
 opportunity to invigorate your career.
 You will need:
 A bowl of jasmine Neroli essential oil
 Writing paper A pen
 Diamond or ruby jewellery Cardboard
 Scissors Gold foil
 One white altar candle One gold taper candle
 One silver taper candle A fireproof dish
 After decorating your altar, consecrate the paper, pen and any other
 items that have not been used before.Cut circular shapes out of the
 cardboard and cover them with gold foil to represent the sun and scatter
 them around the altar.Now write on the piece of paper,‘We would like
 you to have…(whatever job opportunity is hoped for).’ Put the paper in
 the envelope and address it to the person the spell is being directed to,
 either yourself or a third party.
 Light the altar candle and sit for a minute or two thanking your deities
 for the gifts you have already been granted and for the successful magic
 you have already made.
 Open the envelope, take out the letter, and light the gold and silver
 candles.Hold the envelope to the silver flame and when it has taken,
 drop it into the fireproof dish.As it burns see the opportunity you have
 asked for take wing and fly in the direction you wish.When the envelope
 has burned out,light the gold candle and use the flame to set the letter
 alight,and as it burns in the dish,see the news being joyfully received
 and the career being boosted.
 Allow the candles to burn through using the time to visualize the career
 having blossomed and the recipient enjoying its benefit.
163
 y y
 y y
 A Miscellany of Spells

165
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Counter Another’s Magic
 If,for some reason you believe that another person is using their powers
 adversely to affect you in some way,remove their negative influences
 with this simple spell.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond oil (or any suitable carrier oil)
 Rosemary essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 A sheet of white paper
 A black ink pen
 A white altar candle
 A purple taper candle
 A fireproof bowl
 Add three drops of the rosemary essential oil to the carrier oil and charge
 it by rolling the mixing bottle between the palms of your hands,focusing
 your thoughts on the purpose of your spell weaving.Now light the
 white candle and,focusing on its flame,see whoever you think is being
 negative towards you becoming smaller and smaller.
 Anoint the purple candle with the charged oil,drawing the oil away from
 you as you are banishing something that has been directed towards you.
 Before lighting the candle,write on the paper ‘All blocks are gone’ and
 fold it three times.Now light the candle and use its flame to set fire to
 the paper.Focusing on the flames,say the following three times,at the
 last adding,‘And let it be done,that it harm no one’:
 As this paper burns away,
 Elements please hear me pray.
 Turn back the ill will sent to me,
 And send it on its way.
 As the flames dim,see the ill will dissolving with them,then bring the
 session to an end in the usual way.
A Spell to Say Thank You
 Spells expressing gratitude are best cast on Mondays during Pisces when
 the moon is waxing or full.Wearing white clothes reinforces the
 expression of thanks being offered.Even if spells have been cast to no
 apparent effect, it is still right to cast spells such as this, for always
 remember that magic takes time to work.
 You will need:
 Any silver items
 One white altar candle
 One silver taper candle
 A nosegay of white flowers
 A bowl of fruit
 A dish of coins
 A crystal of snow quartz or an opal
 Light the white candle and as it burns meditate on it.Give silent thanks
 for the gifts you have received and for which you are saying thank you.
 Now light the silver candle,rise to your full height and bringing your
 hands high above your head,say:
 By the light of the sacred flame,
 I thank you for the magic cast in your name.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 With thanks in your heart,watch the candle flame until it flickers and
 dies,then close your ritual as you usually do and leave your sacred space.
 166
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
167
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Give Advice
 We all have to give advice from time to time but often lack the
 confidence to do so.This spell has helped many in such a situation.Best
 done during Scorpio,the spell won’t work if it is cast when the moon is
 waning.Wearing green clothes and spreading a green cloth on the work
 surface strengthens the magic being made.
 You will need:
 Some white chrysanthemums or other seasonal flowers
 A sprig or two of parsley
 A malachite crystal
 A white altar candle
 A green taper candle
 A silver pen
 Silver ink
 Writing paper
 A fireproof dish
 Use the silver pen and ink to write a favourite verse or prayer on the
 paper,before picking up the malachite crystal and holding it tightly in
 one hand.Focus on it and silently ask that you be blessed with the ability
 to listen to what is said to you with compassion and understanding and
 that you may speak with assurance and wisdom.Ask that your mouth,
 ears and throat be blessed.Now light the green candle and use its flame
 to set fire to the paper on which you have inscribed the verse or prayer.
 Put the burning paper in the fireproof dish,stand facing the altar and
 with arms raised above your head,say:
 Please listen to the words I say,
 And hear me now as I do pray.
 May wisdom bless my tongue and lips,
 And guidance bless advice I give.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Focus your thoughts on the green candle until it has burned out,do your
 closing ritual and as you leave your sacred space feel confident that
 wisdom will soon be yours.
168
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell to Encourage Self-Esteem
 Lacking that happy knack of making friends easily? If you are asked to a
 party,do you stand around like the proverbial wallflower while everyone
 else is engaged in happy conversations and the sound of everybody’s
 laughter fills the room? Or maybe your career is stuck in a rut that’s
 deeper than a jumbo jet’s tire mark on a muddy runway? If you think,
 ‘That’s me!’ about any of these suggestions,then maybe the answer lies
 in a lack of self-esteem.The following may,no will,help.
 You will need:
 A bath!
 Lavender essential oil
 Jasmine essential oil
 An essential oil burner
 Seven green oak leaves (or basil,if oak is out of season)
 One purple candle
 One yellow candle
 Purple thread
 An envelope
 Light the candles, run a warm (not hot) bath,and drizzle some of the
 lavender oil into the water.Float the leaves in the bath and climb in.
 Breathe in through your nose and hold your breath for a count of seven.
 Breathe out through your mouth for a count of seven,and then seven
 more.When you breathe in,visualize your lungs filling up with warm,
 golden light.As you breathe out,see your frustrations in your breath
 and watch your anger,pain and any other barriers between you and the
 rest of the world leave you.
 Now,totally relaxed and at ease with yourself,visualize a spot of golden
 light above you.Watch it get bigger and bigger before it floats down and
 your body is enveloped in its warm glow.At this point,say the words
 that follow or ones suggested by them:
 I have a contribution to make.
 I have words to say.
 Let others hear the words I speak.
 And take self-doubt away.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
169
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 Repeat the words six more times and when you feel ready,leave the bath
 and snuff out the candles in the usual way.Thread the oak (or basil)
 leaves on to the thread,hold them up to the light and repeat the words
 one more time.Now fold the leaves into the envelope and put them in
 your handbag or wallet.Whenever you have a bad day, first thing the
 following morning, heat the jasmine oil in the burner, re-light the
 candles and hold the leaves up to the flames,repeating the words seven
 times in all and face the new day with confidence.
 When the leaves die,repeat the original spell and it won’t be long before
 you are brimming with self-confidence and no longer have need of it.
A Spell to Ask for Courage
 Tuesdays are best for this spell that brings
 boldness to the faint-hearted.Cast this spell
 on a Tuesday in Aries,when the moon is
 waxing or full.Dress in red clothes and cover
 your altar with a red cloth to add potency to
 your magic.
 You will need:
 One white altar candle
 One red taper candle
 Some sprigs of holly or honeysuckle
 An essential oil burner
 Lavender essential oil
 Black pepper
 When the fumes of the lavender oil are
 filling the air, sprinkle the pepper onto the
 burner.Now light the white candle and kneel
 down,focusing on the flame while silently asking for the courage to face
 whatever challenges lie ahead.Visualize yourself triumphant in any
 situation and then light the red candle.Now stand to your full height in
 front of the altar and,with hands held high above your head,say aloud:
 Strength and courage may I possess,
 That what I fear,I may face.
 In winning through to the other side,
 On to victory I will ride.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The spell is cast.You can face the future with boldness.
 170
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
171
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell for Those Seeking
 Forgiveness
 This ritual is perfect for times when we need to ask for or grant
 forgiveness,especially if they occur when Pisces reigns,and when the
 moon is waxing or at her peak.If you can do it on a Wednesday,all the
 better.A purple or violet coloured altar cloth would strengthen the spell.
 You will need:
 An apache teardrop crystal
 A bowl of daffodils
 A piece of angelica
 A piece of writing paper
 A pen
 A silver or platinum object
 One white altar candle
 One violet taper candle
 A small ash twig
 A fireproof dish
 After you have lit the white candle and focused on the flame,ask of your
 deities that you will be granted forgiveness and the ability to forgive.
 Write on the paper what it is you need to be forgiven for or for which
 you need to forgive somebody else.
 Now light the violet candle and use its flame to set the paper alight.
 When it is burning,drop it in the fireproof dish,stand in front of the
 altar and say:
 To the power I believe I now pray,
 That hurts to me are now forgiven.
 ‘Sorry’ is the word I’ll say.
 Peace be restored and peace be risen.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Contemplate the flickering flame until it has burned out and you will
 know that you have truly forgiven any wrong done to you and that,as
 what goes out comes back,you have been forgiven,too.
172
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 A Spell to Bless a New House
 For what better purpose could magic be made than to bless a move to a
 new home? Before the spell is cast (and before you consecrate the area
 you are going to set aside in which to do your magic) sweep each room
 thoroughly with a birch broom. (Vacuuming might be easier,but even
 the most powerful Dyson,magical though it is in its own way,doesn’t
 have the same effect!) Sweep clockwise into the centre,imagining as you
 work that it’s not just dust that you are sweeping up.Unseen psychic
 remains left over by previous owners are also swept away.When you
 have finished,put all the sweepings into a large paper bag and either
 burn it in the garden or scatter them in the wind.
 This spell should only be cast on a Sunday and it is best to start before
 noon and finish after the clock has passed twelve.The spell can be done
 when the moon is waning,but is not as powerful then as it is when cast
 during a waxing moon.You don’t have to cast a circle to do this spell as
 you will be working around the house.
 You will need:
 Sea salt
 A small bowl
 Rose geranium essential oil
 An aromatherapy burner
 A white candle
 Spring water
 A few grains of rice (organically grown if possible)
 A 15 cm (6 in) square of golden fabric
 Consecrate an area in which you can bless all the ingredients.Starting in
 the room at the top of the house (or the room immediately to the right
 of the front door in a flat),sprinkle a pinch of salt in each corner and on
 all corners of each window and door.As you sprinkle the salt say:
 Please remove negative and unnecessary forces from this space,
 And make this room a special place.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Moving clockwise from room to room,repeat the ritual until the whole
 house has been purified by the salt.That done, light the candle and
173
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 holding it in one hand and the rose geranium oil in the other,proceed
 from room to room in the same order as before.Put the candle in the
 centre of each room and anoint all doors and windows with a little oil.As
 you do this,say:
 Please bless this home to which we move
 And fill the hearts that enter it with love.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 That done, set the candle in the middle of the living room. Fill the
 aromatherapy burner with spring water,light it and add six drops of the
 rose geranium oil to the water.Sit focusing on it,visualize the fragrance
 banishing negativity and replacing it with love.
 When the candle has almost burned down,extinguish it with a snuffer
 or between finger and thumb. Anoint the stump with more rose
 geranium oil,working away from you, and sprinkle some rice on it
 before wrapping it in the gold cloth.Place it as close to the front door as
 possible,maybe under the doormat if you have one.As you do so,say:
 May all who pass through this door be blessed.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
A Spell for Those Keen to Make a
 Move
 If you have made the decision to move but are unable to find a suitable
 house or apartment,this spell may just do the trick,especially if you cast
 it on a Saturday.As brown is the colour associated with Saturday,altar
 decorations of that colour would be most appropriate.If the decision has
 been made to move some distance from where you live at present,use a
 yellow candle as well as the brown one.You will also need to find out
 what colour is associated with your astrological sign (see page 54).
 You will need:
 Paper
 A brown pencil
 A yellow pencil
 A piece of brown cloth
 Yellow thread
 Yellow or brown ribbon
 A picture of the kind of house you are looking for
 Cedar,frankincense or allspice incense
 An incense burner
 A personal taper candle in your astrological colour
 A brown taper candle (see above)
 Position the astrological candle to the left of your altar with the brown
 candle three feet to the right. If you are using a yellow candle as well,
 put it beside the brown one.
 Make a sketch of the location to which you wish to move using the two
 pencils.Lay this on the cloth along with the picture of the house and fold
 the cloth over them to form a sachet.Stitch this with the thread and bind
 it with the ribbon.
 Light the incense burner and pass the sachet through the fumes.As you
 do this,visualize yourself going into your new house and say:
 I thank the powers that let it be,
 That to my new house I have the key.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 174
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
Now light your astrological candle. Pass the sachet above the flame,
 seeing it being bathed in your astrological colour.Then see yourself
 bathed in the same colour and unpacking the crates that contain your
 furniture.Now say:
 I thank the powers that let it be,
 That in my new house myself I see.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now light the brown (and yellow) candle(s),passing the sachet above
 it/them.Again see the sachet,then yourself being bathed in brown (and
 yellow) light,this time going to bed in your new house,and say:
 I thank the powers that let it be,
 That in my new house,safe I shall be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Put the sachet in the centre of the altar and as the candles burn down,
 see yourself happily settled into your new house.When the ritual has
 come to an end,put the sachet under your pillow and sleep with it there
 until the following Saturday. If you haven’t found the house of your
 dreams by then,cast the spell again.
 175
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
A Spell for Nervous Travellers
 There are times when we all feel nervous about a journey we have to
 make no matter how experienced a traveller we are.Cast this spell on the
 Wednesday before you set off and you will reach your destination safely.
 The spell can be cast for yourself or for another person.
 You will need:
 A stone from your garden or from a local park
 A yellow taper candle
 Lavender essential oil
 An essential oil burner
 Yellow acrylic paint
 Violet acrylic paint
 A paintbrush
 Light the yellow candle and oil burner. Facing east, paint the stone
 yellow.As the paint dries, visualize yourself arriving safely at your
 destination.Now paint a violet triangle with three equal sides on the
 stone,with a line just above the base line, joining the other two sides.
 This is the symbol alchemists use to represent air.
 That done, face east and holding the stone in front of you at eye level
 repeat the following eight times:
 Oh Guardian of the East,
 Fill this stone with your blessing and protection.
 I pray for a safe journey to .....for .....
 Guard ....and guide ...
 On the path this journey takes,
 And see ....home safely.
 At the end of the eighth repetition say,‘And let it be done,that it harm
 no one’ before performing closing rituals in the usual way.
 Take the stone with you whenever you travel.Some magic makers put it
 in a consecrated pouch and wear it round their neck or at their waist
 until they are safely home.And once there they don’t forget to thank
 their deities for their protection.
 176
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
177
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell for the Businessperson
 Cast this spell once a month on the first day of the new moon to ensure
 that business affairs run smoothly.
 You will need:
 Some fresh basil leaves
 A bowl of spring water
 A crystal of citrine
 Dried ears of corn
 Some grains of rice
 Mint leaves
 Before you perform the opening
 rituals, soak the basil leaves in the
 water for about an hour, stirring it
 clockwise occasionally.Now consecrate
 the herbal water and visualize your
 office or workplace. Starting in the
 east,walk round the circle, sprinkling
 the consecrated water as you go, and
 saying the following three times:
 May business prosper,
 May my dealings flow,
 May my business be successful,
 May my business grow.
 After the third time say,‘And let it be done,that it harm no one.’
 Now offer the citrine to the four elements.Do the same with the corn,
 the rice and the mint.Bring the ritual to an end in the usual way.When
 you return to your workplace put the citrine in the same drawer as your
 cheque book, and sprinkle the corn and the rice where it will not go
 unnoticed by the cleaners! Carry the mint leaves in your wallet,
 replacing them with fresh ones when you next feel it appropriate to do
 the spell.
A Spell to Inspire You
 This spell uses candles anointed with peppermint essential oil to lift you
 when you need inspiration to meet an oncoming challenge.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond oil (or any suitable carrier oil)
 Peppermint essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 An indigo candle
 A white candle
 Pour the almond oil into the  mixing bottle and add three drops of the
 peppermint oil.Light the white candle and meditate on the purpose of
 the spell for a minute or two.Now roll the bottle between hands held
 prayer-style and when you feel it has been charged with gratitude,
 return it to the altar. Inscribe the indigo candle with the number ‘1’
 before anointing it with the charged oil.Return it to its holder and light
 it.Hold your hands towards the flame and say:
 I ask of you,Oh Powers that be,
 To send inspiration down to me.
 To fill my mind with ideas clear,
 And remove from me all trace of fear.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Visualize the candle flame filling you with inspiration until it burns
 down and you leave your sacred space bathed in inspiration that will
 remain with you.
 178
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
179
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell that Has Inspired Many
 Others
 Try this spell,which has worked to the benefit of many,when you feel
 lacking in inspiration.It is best done on a Saturday during Aquarius,and
 never when the moon is waning. Indigo is the colour that lends itself
 best to this particular piece of magic.
 You will need:
 A white altar candle
 An indigo altar cloth
 A book that you find inspirational - for the altar
 Items made of aluminium (if none are available cover something
 with aluminium foil) - for the altar
 A vase of anemones - for the altar
 A sprig of sage - for the altar
 A hazel twig - for the altar
 An indigo taper candle
 An amethyst crystal
 Light the white candle and pick up the crystal.Squeeze it tightly and
 visualize motivation slowly developing inside you and flowing into the
 crystal.Now light the indigo candle and standing to your full height,
 with your hands above your head,say aloud:
 Inspiration light my life,
 Motivate and guide my way.
 Powers that guide me,
 Hear me pray.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Focus on inspiration shining on you until the candles have burned down,
 when you may perform your closing rituals and leave your sacred space.
A Spell to Promote Peace
 Cast on a Friday nearest the new moon.The bird that symbolizes peace
 is the white dove,so white is the theme of the altar decorations.
 You will need:
 One white altar candle
 One white taper candle
 A piece of jewellery cast from white gold
 A vase of lilies
 A crystal of rhodochrosite
 A large shell
 A small silver coin
 A picture of a dove
 A dish of chamomile
 A sprig of olive
 Light the white altar candle before kneeling in front of the altar holding
 the crystal in your hand.Focus your thoughts on it,trying to see a world
 where peace reigns.Let that peace flood through your body and say a
 silent prayer to the One in whose name you do magic.
 Light the second candle,focus on the picture of the dove and with hands
 held high say:
 Take to the air,Peaceful Dove,
 Banish hatred and spread love.
 Fill minds of men with dreams of peace,
 And banishing war’s dreadful lease.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 The words spoken,put the silver coin in the shell and focusing on a
 world from which war has been banished,watch the candle flame burn
 out before closing the circle.
 Take the shell to a convenient place and every day until the next new
 moon,add another coin to it.If the shell is not large enough to hold all
 the coins, just put them alongside.When the new moon rises,give the
 coins to a suitable charity.
 180
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
181
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell for Smudgers
 Smudging is a North American Indian way of cleaning and clearing the
 atmosphere that dominates a particular place to make it suitable for a
 different purpose.Use this simple spell when you move house or when
 you decorate a room in your existing one.Smudge sticks,bundles of
 dried herbs bound together,are easily made,but for those who are not
 very good with their hands,they are readily available at specialist shops.
 As the smudge stick has to be kept alight throughout the
 ceremony,make sure you have one that is large enough.
 You will need:
 A smudge stick
 A feather or shell to waft the smoke
 Long-stemmed matches
 Light the smudge stick and blow on it
 gently until it has caught well and is
 smoking profusely. If it is a single room
 you are cleansing,move clockwise around
 it three times starting at the door and
 wafting the smudge stick in front of you.
 As you go say something along the lines
 of:
 Go negativity.
 Go all fears.
 Go all problems.
 Go all tears.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Repeat three times,making sure that the smoke gets into each corner.
 If the whole house is being smudged clean, start in the hall and work
 clockwise round the house,repeating the ritual three times in each room.
A Spell to Return Unwanted
 Attention
 At some time or other most of us attract the attention of someone we
 would rather not know. If they seem slow to take the hint, this spell
 should speed things up.Cast it three days or nights in a row when the
 moon is waning.If you can’t get your hands on fresh vervain leaves,use
 the dried ones that should be available at a local herbalist.You’ll need
 about a handful of either.The spell is best cast outside,but if this is not
 possible,it can be done indoors.As it involves fire,it must be done with
 great care.
 You will need:
 Vervain leaves
 A well-stoked fire
 Consecrate the wood or coal
 before lighting the fire.When it
 has taken, throw the vervain
 onto the flames, calling out the
 name of the person you want out
 of your life as loudly and with as
 much passion as you can muster.
 Follow the name with these
 words,which should also be said
 with passion:
 I want you not ever.
 I need you not ever.
 Leave my life now,
 And come back never.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Spend a minute or two trying to see the other person’s face in the smoke
 of the fire and watch it waft away from you – never to return.
 182
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
183
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to See a Rival on Their Way
 All’s fair in love and war, and as no one is actually harmed by this
 voodoo spell it’s included in this grimoire.Start this spell after the full
 moon has risen.
 You will need:
 A new,small glass bowl
 A cup of stagnant water
 Two teaspoons of vinegar
 Some ground angelica
 Lime juice
 A wooden spoon
 On the night when the moon starts to wane take all the ingredients
 outside and mix them in the bowl with the wooden spoon.When
 everything is thoroughly mixed,hold your face close to the bowl and say
 something along the lines of:
 I’m the man/girl **** wants to love.
 We go together hand in glove,
 And so I want you to know,
 The time has come for you to go.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now spit into the mixture and,unseen,make your way to your rival’s
 house.Pour the liquid on his or her front step,repeating the words of the
 incantation as you do so.Repeat the ritual seven nights in a row.
 The spell has its origins in voodoo tradition and there are several reports,
 from Hispaniola and other areas where voodoo is respected, of two
 young men,bowls in hand,making their way to one another’s houses
 under cover of darkness!
A Spell to Say, ‘No Thanks!’ – I 
There are unscrupulous
 people who will use their
 magic powers to manipulate
 the will of another. If you
 think that someone has
 decided that you are the one
 for him or her, and you are
 not interested, then you can
 break the power of their spell
 with this one,which should
 be done when the moon is
 waning.
 You will need:
 A small mirror
 A black taper candle
 A small bowl of water
 Position yourself so that all you can see in the mirror is your face and the
 candle.Darken the room and light the candle.As it burns,visualize the
 energy of the spell that you suspect has been cast being sent back to the
 person who cast it.As you do this,slowly move back from the mirror until
 you are out of focus and all you can see in it is the flame.Watch as the last
 of the energy is sent back and when it has all gone,douse the flame in the
 water,saying as you do so,something along the lines of:
 By the power of candle black,
 The spell once cast is now sent back.
 I thank ***** who sent it,
 And ask that he/she not resent it.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 184
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
185
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Say, ‘No Thanks!’ – II
 If the first spell cast in this respect doesn’t work,this ritual may do the
 trick.It is also done on a waning moon.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of almond or another carrier oil
 Half a teaspoon of camphor essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 A white candle
 A bolline or burin
 Add the camphor essential oil to the carrier oil and roll the mixing bottle
 between the palms of your hands,seeing it becoming empowered with
 your determination to break the spell cast to draw you to the other
 person.When it is charged,anoint the candle with it.
 Now mark the candle with eight horizontal lines so that it is divided into
 nine equal parts.Light it and as it burns down towards the first line,
 focus on the flame and see it take your refusal to be drawn to the original
 spellcaster.As you do,repeat the words of the first spell over and over
 again until the candle has burned down to the first line,at which point
 extinguish it with a snuffer or between finger and thumb.
 Repeat this ritual over the next eight nights.
A Spell to Stop Tongues Wagging
 If you feel that you are the subject of unjust gossip,this spell should stop
 the tongues wagging.As well as the items listed,you will also need
 access to a holly bush as you are going to seek the protection it offers.
 The spell is best cast on a Tuesday when the moon is waning.
 You will need:
 A red taper candle
 A red pen
 A very small square of paper 
A snapdragon (antirrhinum) stem
 A thorn
 Some red ribbon
 Facing south,light the red candle,seeing in its flame the face or faces of
 the source of the gossip.Write their names on the paper with the red
 pen. If you are unsure of who it is,simply write,‘whomever you may
 be’.Fold the paper into a tiny scroll.
 Carefully pluck the largest flower from the snapdragon and very gently
 open it out.Roll it round the scroll, repeating these words or ones
 similar,five times:
 Let your tongue speak goodness,
 Let your thoughts be kind,
 Consider your own faults,
 I know mine.
 Use the thorn to keep the scroll in place and as you pierce the flower,say:
 Protect me as their lips do part,
 Words not spoken from the heart.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now take the floral package to the holly bush and bury it in the bush’s
 shade.Tie the ribbon to a convenient branch and as you walk away,see
 the gossip as being in your past.And don’t look back.
 186
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
187
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Solve Problems
 Talking to yourself about your problems may sound like the first step to
 a date on the psychiatrist’s couch,but doing so often helps you to put
 things in perspective and see problems in a new light that suggests a
 solution.
 On a suitable day of the week, decorate your altar with things
 appropriate to your problem.For example,if you have a problem in the
 office,green would be a suitable theme and Friday a good day on which
 to work; some birch leaves or twigs (if you are planning a new
 beginning), some nasturtium (if you have been struggling,no matter
 how hard you have been working) and a crystal of tourmaline (the magic
 properties of which include friendship, prosperity, business and
 protection) will all strengthen the magic.And don’t forget to burn a
 suitable essential oil in an oil burner and to lay your favourite charm,
 talismans and the like on the altar.
 When everything is in position and you are ready to make your magic,
 simply say:
 Powers I believe in be with me.
 Powers I believe in talk to me.
 Powers I believe in help me see,
 The answers to my problem.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now listen to the voices in your head.Answer them,aloud,in your own,
 everyday words.Don’t feel self-conscious.No one is going to eavesdrop.
 You should find that the way ahead slowly forms itself,and when the
 magic making is at an end, remember the words of an old Chinese
 proverb:
 The longest journey starts with a single step.
 Don’t be afraid to take it.
A Spell to Recover Something that has
 Been Mislaid
 This spell has an excellent success rate, but it does require well
developed visualization skills.
 You will need:
 Honeysuckle essential oil
 A piece of new writing paper
 A new pen
 Write whatever it is you have mislaid on the paper and lay it on your
 altar.Rub a drop or two of the honeysuckle oil on your temples,forehead
 and hands.Now move to the north of your circle and sitting facing
 south,the palms of your hands facing upwards,visualize yourself sitting
 on top of a mountain,able to see far in any direction.
 With this picture firmly in mind,say:
 Safe and sure as I can be
 May my ***** return to me.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now see the lost item floating on the horizon.Focus on it and see it float
 towards you,noting the direction from which it comes.See it safe into
 your hand before relaxing and bringing the ritual to an end as usual.
 Look for the missing object in the room that faces the direction from
 which you saw it float towards you when you were visualizing yourself
 on the mountain top. If it doesn’t turn up the same day on which you
 cast your spell,put the paper under your pillow and keep it there until
 the object does turn up.
 If it fails to do so,you can try the spell again and if that still doesn’t
 work,accept that someone has found what was lost and decided to keep
 it,or that it is well and truly lost.
 188
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
189
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Cast When a Pet Dies
 Non-pet owners often find it hard to understand the huge sense of loss
 that is experienced on the death of a much-loved pet,especially a dog.
 They simply don’t understand that the unconditional love a pet often
 displays towards its owner creates a bond that,when it is broken, can
 never be replaced.If you have been affected by such a loss,don’t try to
 contain your grief:bottled-up grief grows and grows until it can become
 quite unbearable.This spell should help ease your sense of loss.
 You will need:
 Three small brown taper candles
 Rosemary essential oil
 Something that reminds you of your pet – a lead perhaps,or a collar
 Anoint the candles with the oil before lighting them and focusing on the
 three flickering flames, conjuring up in your mind’s eye some of the
 happy memories that you have of your dead pet.Now, holding the
 memento in both hands, say aloud some words of thanks for the
 companionship and friendship it brought into your life before saying
 that now is the time to say a final farewell.See the candle flames grow
 as you say ‘Goodbye!’ Don’t snuff out the candles (that’s why they
 should be small).Rather,focus on the flames getting smaller and smaller,
 seeing your grief diminish with them.And when they die,know that
 your grief has died with them.
 Finish the ritual by saying:
 Be at peace,
 And blessed be.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 And remember that it is your grief that has gone, not your happy
 memories of your much-loved pet.
A Spell for Those Who Are Lonely
 Have you moved to a new location and have yet to meet the sort of
 people you are inclined to make friends with? Or maybe shyness is
 stopping you going out and making friends? This spell should help.
 You will need:
 A piece of scrap paper
 A piece of parchment
 A pen
 An orange candle 
An empty hurricane lamp
 A bolline or burin
 A jar
 Salt
 Take some time to write down what your personality traits are,your
 likes and dislikes and a few sentences that summarize your character.
 Now précis what you have written in as few words as possible, but
 retaining their essence,and write these on the parchment.The reason for
 keeping the words to a minimum is that now you inscribe them onto the
 candle.
 Fill the jar one third of the way up with salt and bury the rolled up piece
 of parchment in it before sealing the jar and putting it in as safe a place
 as possible near your bed.
 Before you go to bed,put the inscribed candle into the hurricane lamp
 and light it.Make sure that it is in a safe place,and that if you have a cat
 or dog,they are kept out of the bedroom as accidents can happen.
 Focus on the flame seeing how much better your life will be when new
 friends have come into it.Say something along the lines of:
 Help me,please,to make new friends,
 So my loneliness will be at an end.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 190
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
As you drift off to sleep,see what you have inscribed on the candle drift
 out of the room, through your house and out into the world.Waken
 confident that your loneliness will soon be over.And now for the
 difficult part.Making new friends is a two-way process.You can’t just sit
 there and wait for the phone to ring.Make the effort.Go out,even if it’s
 just to sit in a coffee shop with a good book,and let the magic work for
 you.
 191
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
A  Spell to Ask for Whatever You
 Want
 This very simple spell can be used to ask your deities for anything you
 want – wealth,health or happiness for yourself or someone else.The
 phase of the moon is,as usual,important.If you are asking for some sort
 of gain,then weave the magic when the moon is waxing.If you want to
 banish something,weave the spell when the moon is waning.
 You will need:
 A shell
 Watercolour paint of a colour
 appropriate to the reason for
 the spell
 A paintbrush
 Next time you visit a beach,look
 for a shell sitting in the shallow
 water.Take it home and dry it thoroughly.
 On a clear moonlit night at a time when the tide is
 about to go out,paint the desire of the spell on the outer part of the shell
 and take it to the beach.(The one you found it on is best but if that’s not
 practical take it to a convenient beach that lies in the same direction as
 the original one.) Place the shell pearly side down,written side up,where
 the waves will soon lap over it and draw a triangle round it.As the sea
 begins to wash over the shell,say:
 Powers of Earth,Moon and Sea,
 Lend your power,please,to me.
 Forces which the tide do make,
 Ask the waves,my spell to take.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 As the watercolour paint is washed off the shell and out to sea,the spell
 is set.It should start to work within seven says but it could take a full
 lunar month for the magic to begin.
 192
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
193
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell to Ask for Luck
 This spell will not work when the moon is waning.Cast it on a Thursday
 before the full moon.If it can be done during Sagittarius,all the better.
 You can strengthen the magic by wearing blue clothes and loading the
 candles with sandalwood essential oil.You need to know your birth
 number.Calculate this by adding together the day, the month and the
 year you were born,then adding the digits of the answer together.If this
 results in a two-digit number,add these together.
 You will need:
 One white altar candle
 One blue taper candle
 Several coins
 A sprig of white heather
 A sprig of clover
 A piece of gold or silver jewellery
 Amber or citrine crystals
 A piece of paper 
A pencil or pen
 A fireproof dish
 Write the number down on the paper and place it on the altar.That done,
 kneel in front of it,light the white candle and meditate on your heart’s
 desire,visualizing your wish coming true.Light the blue candle and use
 its flame to set fire to the paper with your birth number written on it.
 Put this in the fireproof dish and as it burns,softly say these words:
 Guardians of this space I pray,
 Good luck be with me every day.
 Pray bring to me some good news,
 And change my fortune that I do not lose.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 Now focus on the smouldering paper and see in the vapour all bad luck
 drifting away from you.If time allows,keep focusing your mind on good
 fortune coming your way until the blue candle has burned out.
 Thank each element for its blessing and close your ritual in the usual
 way.
A Spell to Cast When You Feel
 Threatened
 We all go through times when we feel that we are under threat,perhaps
 at work when schedules are tight and tempers are about to snap.Or
 maybe in the home when tensions are making themselves felt,creating
 a chill in the air.This spell,which calls for excellent visualization skills,
 protects you by forming a crystal shell around you,protecting you from
 the bad vibrations of ill temper.
 You will need:
 A clear crystal of quartz or any favourite one that is full of clear
 light
 Place the crystal on a table where it will catch the sunshine.Sit at the
 table and breathe in deeply through the nose.Hold the breath for a
 moment or two before exhaling through the mouth.Repeat this several
 times,absorbing the light cast by the crystal as you inhale and exhaling
 any negative feelings,doubts and darkness.
 After a minute or two,stand and begin visualizing a ring of crystal rising
 around you, from your feet upwards,getting higher and higher with
 each breath you take.
 When the crystal ring is above head height, see it close over you,
 forming any shape in which you feel comfortable to be enclosed – a
 pyramid perhaps,or maybe a dome.
 Still breathing deeply, feel the crystal form a floor beneath your feet.
 Stretch your arms and feel your fingers touch the sides.Look upwards
 and see the dome or pyramid point.If you can,see yourself from outside
 the protective crystal in which you have surrounded yourself.
 Now say:
 Within this crystal,I am safe from negative thought,
 And will be so,whenever I return to it.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 194
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
195
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 When you feel it is right to do so,return to normal breathing and see the
 crystal open to allow you to step outside it,safe in the knowledge that
 you can return to it whenever you need to.
 Those who have used this spell find that keeping a crystal in the house,
 office, or wherever else they think they may need protection from
 negativity strengthens the spell’s potency.
A Spell to Ask for Kindness
 Most things associated with bees – their wax,honey,pollen,royal jelly
 and the like – are thought to have magical powers and can be used to
 deliver a magic message.This spell,which has its roots in voodoo,uses
 honey to encourage someone to be kind to you.The spell should be done
 on either a waxing or a full moon.
 You will need:
 A small strip of paper
 A pen
 A small,clean jar with a lid (an old baby food jar would be ideal)
 Runny honey
 One pink candle (representing affection and friendship)
 Write the name of the person to
 whom the spell is being directed on
 the paper and put this in the jar.Use
 a honey dripper to drizzle honey
 into the jar (if you try to pour it in,
 honey has a tendency to go
 anywhere but where you want it to).
 As the jar fills, visualize the other
 person being kind to you as you
 would like him or her to be.When
 the jar is full,put the lid on and seal
 it with the molten wax from the
 pink candle.
 Keep the jar on your altar or in a
 place where it will not be touched by
 anyone else.The energy of the spell
 is recharged every day by putting
 the jar in a sunny spot.After six
 months bury the jar and recast the
 spell if you need to,but by then, the other person should have been
 especially kind to you.(If you want people in general to display kindness
 to you,then simply write ‘All Mankind’ on the paper before putting it in
 the jar.)
 196
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
197
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 A Spell that Asks the Leaves
 Again, this is more of a ritual than a spell, but one that has a long
 history,for trees have played a significant part in magic making probably
 since before Druid times.If you live near a pine forest all to the good,but
 any wood will do.Avoid following this ritual on a very windy day,as you
 will probably find that there are too many leaves vying for your
 attention!
 You will need:
 A fallen twig
 A bolline or burin
 As you make your way to the woods,form a question in your mind to
 which you want an answer.Find a fallen twig and gently carve the initial
 letters of each word of the question on it.Hold this towards the sun and
 say the question aloud.Now simply listen to the breeze rustling the
 leaves.Let the sound form a picture in your mind.Do not try to force
 things, imagining things you do not hear.After a minute or two,you
 should feel that the leaves have said all they are going to say.Bury the
 twig in the ground so that it returns to Mother Earth and as you walk
 away,an answer to your question should come to mind.
A Spell for Cat Lovers
 Those who see a black cat crossing their path as a sign of good luck
 coming their way,should find that this spell works well for them.
 You will need:
 Two teaspoons of carrier oil
 Three drops of sandalwood essential oil
 A mixing bottle
 A picture or an ornament of a black cat
 Citrine or amber crystals
 One white altar candle
 One blue taper candle
 A bolline or burin
 Put the carrier oil in the mixing bottle and add the sandalwood oil.With
 your hands in prayer position, roll the bottle between the palms,
 visualizing good luck mixing into the blend.
 When you think the oil is fully charged with good fortune,put the bottle
 on your altar and spend a minute or two breathing deeply in and out.As
 you inhale,see white light enter your body and enshroud all negative
 energy.When you exhale,see this energy leave your body.
 When you feel fully relaxed,light the white candle and,focusing on its
 flame,see yourself as you will be when good luck comes to you.Now,
 inscribe your birth number (see page 193) at the top of the blue candle
 before putting the candle back in its holder and rubbing some of the
 charged oil on the palms of your hands.See the energy you charged it
 with warming them,then take the blue candle,holding it horizontally in
 front of you, anoint it with the oil, drawing the oil from the centre
 towards you then turning it round and continuing in the same way.
 Focusing on making your wishes come true,hold the candle in the air
 above the image of the black cat, rolling the candle backwards and
 forwards between the palms of your hands.As you do so,repeat:
 Candle’s power and lucky cat,
 Please change my luck,so that
 I achieve my heart’s desire,
 Powered by this magic fire.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
 198
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
199
 A Miscellany of Spells y y
 y y
 Allow the candle to burn down or, if you have to,extinguish it with a
 candle snuffer or between finger and thumb.Clean your hands with the
 tissue and close your ritual in the way you usually do.
200
 The Spells
 y
 y y
 y
 AND FINALLY…
 A Blessing
 This simple candle spell makes an appropriate ending to a book such as
 this.
 You will need:
 One white candle
 Blessing oil (available from specialist shops)
 A bolline or burin
 Carve the name of the person to be blessed (in this example,you, the
 reader) on the candle and dress it with the oil.For the next seven days
 burn an equal part of the candle, snuffing it out after these words (or
 similar) have been spoken:
 ******* 
May nothing ever harm you.
 May love be yours to give and take.
 May nothing ever alarm you
 May wealth be yours to make.
 May your health be good and your mind be strong.
 May your friendships be the best.
 May your heart be strong and your life be long.
 Dear Reader,may you be blessed.
 And let it be done,that it harm no one.
Michael Johnstone
 Michael Johnstone
 The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Spellsdelves into the
 rich and fascinating tradition of using spells and white
 magic to enhance your life,realize your desires and
 make your dreams come true.
 The book provides a comprehensive examination of
 the long history of spells and gives clear explanations
 as to their true nature,as well as tips on the proper
 way they should be used.A number of spells,from
 healing spells to love spells,are covered in more
 depth,making this an easy to use practical workbook
 for the reader.
 Emphasizing the important role of spells and white
 magic in self-development,The Ultimate
 Encyclopedia of Spellswill prove an essential tool on
 the road to discovering your true nature and destiny.
 THE ULTIMATE
 ENCYCLOPEDIA 
THE ULTIMATE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF
 ofSpells
 Spells
 THE ULTIMATE
 ENCYCLOPEDIA 
ofSpells
 Mind, Body, Spirit
 U.K.£9.99