Gem Stones of the 
United States
 GEOLOGICAL SURVEY BULLETIN 1042-G

A CONTRIBUTION TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 By Dorothy M. Schlegel
 ABSTRACT
 Many semiprecious, but few precious, gem stones have been found in the 
United States. Beauty, durability, and rarity are the most important qualities 
of a precious gem. Gem stones are distinguished by their, physical properties: 
color, crystal form, cleavage, parting, hardness, specific gravity, luster, 
index of refraction, transparency, and dispersion. Gems are named for their 
color, type locality, outstanding physical property, or persons. The most 
popular gem cuts are the cabochon, rose, brilliant, step, and mixed. The 
carat, one-fifth of a gram or 200 milligrams, is the unit of weight measure- 
ment. The color of four popular gems may be changed by heat treatment or 
dyeing. Only the ruby, sapphire, spinel, emerald, rutile, and quartz of gem 
quality have been synthesized. The best quality of assembled stones are the 
doublet and triplet. Most gem stones are found in alluvial gravels and igneous 
rocks, especially granite and pegmatite deposits.
 INTRODUCTION
 Gem stones generally are divided into two categories: precious 
and semiprecious. A precious gem stone has beauty, durability, 
and rarity, whereas a semiprecious gem stone has only one or 
two of these qualities. The diamond, emerald, ruby, and sapphire 
are considered precious gems. Some opal is precious, but most 
varieties are semiprecious.
 The beauty of a gem stone is determined by personal taste. In 
ancient times man preferred brightly colored, translucent or 
opaque stones. Today he prefers .evenly tinted, transparent 
stones. The desired hues are blue, rose, green, and true canary 
yellow in the diamond; pigeon-blood red in the ruby; cornflower 
blue in the sapphire; and grass green in the emerald. 
diamonds, however, are colorless.
 Most 
The durability of a gem stone depends upon its hardness and 
lack of ready cleavage. A gem must be sufficiently hard to resist 
abrasion by objects normally found in everyday life and by dust. 
It should also resist the chemicals withwhichitcom.es in contact. 
Cleavability is the tendency of certain gems to split in one direc- 
tion more readily than in another.
 Rarity is one of the most important factors in establishing the 
price of a gem stone. Such gems as the diamond and ruby are 
rare, in addition to being beautiful and durable, and therefore are 
very expensive. Although the deep redpyrope garnet closely re- 
sembles the ruby in color, there is no comparison in expense and 
popularity. 
. 
.
 203
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 .The purpose of this report is to give the amateur gemmologist 
some of the important information available on the gem stones of 
the United States. Although the finest precious gems occur in 
foreign countries, a wide variety of semiprecious stones, and a 
few precious gems, have been found in the United States. About 
50 major gems and the geology of their occurrence are described 
in this report. William F. Foshag, U. S. National Museum, has 
kindly reviewed the manuscript and made many valuable sugges- 
tions. Dana's "A textbook of mineralogy" is the source of the 
chemical formulas.
 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
 Physical properties are important aids in identifying gems. 
They are: color, crystal form, cleavage, parting, hardness, spe- 
cific gravity, luster, index of refraction, transparency, and dis- 
persion.
 Color is the first property noticed in a gem stone. Minerals of 
constant chemical composition usually have definite, character- 
istic colors. Many minerals, however, have varying chemical 
compositions and therefore a wide range of colors. Impurities, 
such as iron, chromium, and copper, also tint the minerals. Care 
should be taken in using color as a means of gem identification be- 
cause it is not a constant property in most minerals.
 Most gem stones have certain crystal systems that form under 
favorable conditions of temperature and pressure. If the condi- 
tions of formation are unfavorable, -an amorphous mass having no 
particular atomic arrangement results. The six crystal systems 
in which gem stones may form are: isometric, hexagonal, tetrag- 
onal, 
orthorhombic, monoclinic, and triclinic.
 Cleavage is.the tendency of certain gem stones, when struck in 
the proper place, to split in one direction more readily than in 
another and yield plane surfaces. These plane or cleavage, sur- 
faces are parallel to some of the crystal faces of some gem stones. 
For example, diamonds maybe cleaved in four directions parallel 
to the faces of an octahedron. Ready cleavage, however, can be 
a handicap; topaz and kunzite, for example, are difficult to cut 
into faceted gems because of this factor.
 Certain minerals form planes of structural weakness if exposed 
to Stress or pressure. These planes are known as parting. 
Twinned crystals and certain minerals that have been subjected 
to the critical pressure are usually affected in this manner.
 Hardness is the resistance a gem stone offers to abrasion or 
scratching/ The hardness of a gem stone may be determined by 
scratching it with another mineral or with a knife blade. This may 
mutilate tllQ StOne. A Series of 10 minerals, known as Moh's 
Scale of hardness, has been established to show relative 
of hardness.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 MOH'S SCALE OP HARDNESS
 1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Talc 
Gypsum 
Calcite 
Fluorite 
Apatite 
6. 
7. 
. 
8. 
9. 
Orthoclase
 Quartz
 Topaz
 Corundum
 10. Diamond
 205
 The numbers preceding each mineral indicate only increasing 
degrees of hardness, not actual values. For example, the dia- 
mond, rated as 10, is many times harder than corundum, rated 
as 9. Corundum is placed next to diamond only because it is the 
mineral nearest the diamond in hardness. Because much dust is 
composed of silica (quartz, 7 on Moh's scale) particles, a gem 
stone should be harder than quartz.
 Some minerals are harder in one direction than another. When 
testing a gem for hardness, the gem stone should be rubbed against 
the test stone, not vice versa. Cut stones can be badly damaged 
by permitting several of different hardness to be carried in con- 
tact with one another.
 The specific gravity of a mineral is the ratio between its weight 
and the weight of an equal volume of water at 4° C. It is a con- 
stantproperty of all minerals of fixed compositior The amateur 
gemmologlst need not determine the specific gravity accurately, 
but he should learn to compare the relative weights of stones.
 Luster, the general appearance of a mineral in reflected light, 
is of two types: metallic and nonmetallic. Most gem stones are 
nonmetallic. Terms used to.describe nonmetallic lusters are: 
vitreous or glassy, resinous, pearly, greasy or waxy, silky, and 
adamantine or brilliant. Luster is influenced by the index of re- 
fraction, transparency, and dispersion of a gem stone.
 When light rays pass from air into a denser medium, they are 
bent or refracted. The velocity of light is diminished in the 
denser medium. The ratio between the velocity of light in air and 
that in the gem stone is known as the index of refraction. If a 
gem is transparent, the maximum amount of light is refracted. 
In translucent or opaque stones only part of the light is refracted. 
Dispersion is the ability of a mineral to separate white light into 
colored rays. Because the degree of refraction for different 
colors of light differs with each mineral, certain minerals have 
a higher dispersion than others. The diamond owes its fiery bril- 
liance to a high index of refraction and high dispersion.
 TECHNOLOGY
 GEM NAMES
 In ancient times gem names were based principally on color. 
The term "ruby" was applied to all red stones: spinel, ruby, 
garnet, and rose tourmaline; the term "sapphire," to lapis lazuli 
and other blue stones; the term "topaz," to all yellow stones; and
206 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 the term "emerald, " to chrysocolla and all other green stones 
(Smith, 1949, p. 175). Corundum was referred to as "oriental" 
because the first specimens were brought to Europe from the 
Orient. Modern nomenclature for gems is based on the color, 
type locality, or an outstanding physical property of the gem. 
Several gems, such as uvarovite and kunsite, have been named 
for persons.
 GEM CUTS
 Most gem stones used in jewelry must be cut to reveal their full 
brilliance. In ancient times a gem stone was treasured for its 
surface coloration rather than its brilliance; therefore, gems were 
merely polished and left in their natural state. 
/ The oldest, type of gem cut in use today is the cabochori or rounded 
ut introduced by the Romans (Smith^l949, p. 141). The cabochon 
Was used for colored stones, such as the emerald, ruby, sapphire, 
and garnet, but is now used only for-sta-rstones, cat's-eyes, opals, 
and generally opaque and imperfect stones.
 The art of faceting a gem stone originated in India in the 15th 
century (Smith, 1949, p. 142). The first faceted gems were dia- 
monds that had been haphazardly cut to disguise any flaws or car- 
bon spots. In the early 17th century the rose cut, a symmetrical 
form consisting of a flat base and a faceted top terminating in a 
low point, was invented and used for cutting large diamonds. 
This form was varied in the Dutch rose, Antwerp rose, and rose 
recouped. The brilliant cut, consisting of 56 facets plus the table 
andculet, was invented at the end of the 17th century. It revealed 
the fiery brilliance of a diamond for the first time and is still the 
standard cut for the diamond. Modifications of the brilliant form 
are the jubilee cut (88 facets), English brilliant (30 facets), the 
marquise, and the drop form.
 The other faceted forms are the step cut, used for emeralds 
and exceptionally good diamonds, and the mixed cut, a combina- 
tion step cut and brilliant cut. The purpose of a step cut is to
 display the color of a gem rather than its brilliance. The depth
 of this cut varies with the depth of color in the stone. A dark- 
colored stone is lightened by a shallow cut, and a light-colored 
stone is darkened by a deep cut. The mixed cut is used to heighten 
the beauty of irregularly colored stones, such as tourmaline.
 UNIT OF WEIGHT
 The carat, meaning one-fifth of a gram or 200 milligrams, is 
used as the unit for weighing gem stones. The cost of a gem stone 
is the result of the price per carat multiplied by the weight. The 
price per carat of a precious stone increases with size.
 METHODS OF CHANGING COLOR IN GEM STONES
 The color of many gem stones may be partly altered or driven 
off completely by the use of heat. The atoms of the coloring agent
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
207
 are thereby permanently rearranged. Heat is used to produce 
some of the tints rarely found in nature. Yellow topaz from Brazil 
can be heated carefully and cooled to produce a permanent pink, 
resembling the rare, natural pink topaz. In a similar manner a 
colored zircon may be heat-treated and thereby become colorless 
or changed to a different color. Other stones that react to heat 
are: violet quartz (amethyst) changing to orange brown, smoky 
quartz to yellow, pale-green beryl to blue, violet corundum to 
rose pink, and yellow corundum to colorless.
 Dyeing is another means of changing the natural color of a gem 
stone. This method is most often used in porous stones, such as 
the agate. The unattractive gray and pale shades may be changed 
chemically to bright red, green, and blue shades. The common 
dyeing procedure is to soak the agate in the desired chemical 
(nitric acid for red shades, nitrates and chromium salts for green 
shades, and certain cyanates and sulfates for blue shades). The 
Romans dyed agate by soaking it in honey, removing it from the 
liquid, and heating it; this produced black bands. Today the same 
effect is achieved by first soaking the agate in a sugar solution, 
and then in sulfuric acid to char the sugar.
 SYNTHETIC STONES
 Ruby, spinel, emerald, sapphire, star sapphire, star ruby, 
rutile, and quartz are gem stones that have been successfully syn- 
thesized. A reddish-green stone known as synthetic alexandrite 
is actually synthetic corundum. A stone of simple chemical com- 
position generally is more easily synthesized than one of complex 
composition. Although the diamond has the simplest composition 
of any gem stone (C, or carbon), synthetic gem diamonds have 
never been perfected; on February 15, 1955, the General Electric 
Co. synthesized some very small industrial diamonds. The ruby 
has a simple composition of A12O3, or 2 molecules of aluminum 
and 3 molecules of oxygen. Synthetic gem rubies are made by grow- 
ing a boule (or pear-shaped mass) composed of A1203. Although the 
boule does not resemble a natural ruby crystal, it possesses most of 
the physical properties of the natural stone. Sometimes the fol- 
lowing distinctions can be made between synthetic and natural 
stones: natural stones contain cavities that are never spherical; 
synthetic stones are never perfectly uniform in structure; and the 
growth lines of a stone cut from a boule appear as curved striae 
under the microscope; natural stones sometimes have straight 
growth lines.
 IMITATION AND ASSEMBLED STONES
 Gems made of glass are known as imitation stones. Unlike syn- 
thetic gems, imitation stones resemble true-gems only in color. 
Cheap imitations are made from bottle glass or lead glass; more 
exact imitations are made from special glass or paste. "Recon- 
structed gems" are prepared from inferior gem material. Two 
of the more exact "assembled stones" are the doublet and triplet.
 41Z673 O - 57 - Z
20° 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 The doublet consists of two different substances cemented together. 
The top of the stone may be quartz and the bottom, glass; or the 
top may be genuine sapphire, deficient in color, and the bottom, 
paste of bright blue to compensate for the pale color of the sap- 
phire. The triplet is an assembled stone in which the top and 
bottom are rock crystal cemented with colored canada balsam. 
The doublet and triplet are easily detected by immersing them in 
an oil and thereby seeing the separate layers or by dissolving the 
canada balsam in boiling water, causing the pieces to separate, 
but ruining .the stone.
 GEOLOGIC -OCCURRENCE
 Gem stones are found principally in igneous rocks and alluvial 
gravels, but also in sedimentary and metamorphic rocks. The 
finest gems are cut from large, perfect stones with even color 
distribution. Igneous rocks, such as granite, are formed deep in 
the earth's interior and some contain rifts and cavities where gem 
stones have formed under the proper conditions. In some places, 
molten masses of igneous rocks are forced into cracks of other 
rocks, forming veins or dikes. Some pegmatite dikes contain a 
variety of gem stones, such as tourmaline, beryl (emerald, aqua- 
marine), spodumene (kunzite, hiddenite), zircon, and gem vari- 
eties of feldspar, topaz, and quartz. Gem stones maybe weathered 
out from their matrix, washed away in streams, and eventually 
deposited as alluvial gravels. Opal and agate are formed from 
aqueous solutions. Diamonds are found inkimberlite, a rare vol- 
canic rock.
 Physical properties: 
PRECIOUS GEMS
 DIAMOND 
c
 Color: Usually colorless, pale yellow or pale brown; also gray
 and black, rarely green, blue, or pink. 
Crystal form: Isometric (cubic, .octahedron). 
Cleavage: Perfect, parallel to octahedron faces. 
Hardness: 10.
 Specific gravity: 3:516-3.525. 
Luster: Adamantine, also greasy.
 The diamond has many unusual qualities: extreme hardness, 
high index of. refraction, strong color dispersion, and fiery bril- 
liance. Composed of pure carbon, it has the simplest composition 
of all gems.
 In the United States, more than 50,000 diamonds have been 
found in kimberlite near Murfreesboro, Ark. Kimberlite is a 
dark, greenish-black igneous rock of the peridotite family. It is 
composed Of partly altered olivine phenocrysts in a dense ground 
mass. The kimberlite in Arkansas occurs in four small areas 
the largest of which appears to be a volcanic neck. The kimber- 
lite includes breccia and tuff and weathers to a soft, friable, 
yellowish or greenish mass and black soil in which most of the 
diamonds have been found.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 209
 Elsewhere in the United States, diamonds have been reported in 
four regions: the Pacific Coast, Great Lakes, central Kentucky- 
eastern Tennessee, and the Atlantic Coast-Piedmont. The Pacific 
Coast diamonds are found in sand and gravel of riverbeds and 
streambeds, principally derived from rocks of the Sierra Nevada. 
Specific localities in California where diamonds have been found 
are: Smith River, Del Norte County; Trinity River, Trinity County; 
Spanish Creek and Gopher Hill, Plumas County; Placerville and 
Webber Hill, El Dorado County; Cherokee Flats, Yankee Hill,and 
Oroville, Butte County; French Corral, Nevada County; Indian 
Gulch and Volcano, Amador County; and Alpine Creek, Tulare 
County. 
Other western localities are: Diamond Basin, Ada 
County, Idaho; Curry County, Oreg.; and Nelson Hill, near Glacier 
County, Mont. The Great Lakes diamond region is essentially 
the terminal moraine of the last ice sheet. Diamonds have been 
found in Wisconsin at Plum Creek, Pierce County; Oregon, Dane 
County; Kohlsville, Washington County; Saukville, Ozaukee County; 
Eagle, Waukesha County; and Burlington, Racine County. Other 
localities in the Great Lakes region are Dowagiac, Cass County, 
Mich.; Lick Creek, Brown County, Ind.; and Milford, Clermont 
County, Ohio. Diamonds have been found in Kentucky at Cabin 
Fork Creek, Russell County, and in Tennessee at Clinch River, 
near Union Crossroads, Roane County; Luttrell, Flat Creek, Union 
County; and Koko Creek, Tellico River, Monroe County. In the 
Atlantic Coast-Piedmont region many diamonds have been found 
in sand and gravel deposits derived from nearby crystalline rocks. 
Specific localities in North Carolina are Brindletown Creek Ford, 
Burke County; the J. B. Twitty gold placer mine, Rutherford County; 
Cottage Home, Lincoln County; Todds Branch, Mecklenburg County; 
Muddy Creek, Dysortville, and near Dysortville, McDowell County; 
Kings Mountain, Cleveland County; and Portis gold mine, Franklin 
County. In South Carolina diamonds have been found in Spartanburg 
County; in Virginia, at Manchester, Chesterfield County; in Geor- 
gia, at Gainesville in Hall County, Horshawmine in Acooche Valley, 
and Morrow Station in Clayton County; in Alabama, in Lee and 
Shelby Counties; and in West Virginia, at Peterstown. Diamonds 
have also been found in Huntsville, Tex.
 BERYL (EMERALD) .
 Be3Al2 (SiO3)6 
Physical properties:
 Color: Grass green.
 Crystal form: Hexagonal.
 Cleavage: Indistinct, parallel to basal face.
 Hardness: 7.5.
 Specific gravity: 2. 63-2.80.
 Luster: Vitreous.
 Emerald is the only precious variety of beryl. Its grass-green 
color has been attributed to the presence of chromic oxide. 
Emerald crystallizes in a six-sided prism terminated by a basal 
face at right angles to the prism edge. It is faintly dichroic,
210
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 showing a deeper color in one direction than another. The hard- 
ness of emerald is a little less than that of the other varieties of 
beryl. All varieties of beryl are brittle and therefore easily frac- 
tured. Most emeralds are badly flawed and no large, unfLawed 
stone is known. Emeralds are usually step cut, but some are 
brilliant cut. A flawless stone of good quality and larger than 
6 carats would have a much higher value than a diamond of equal 
size.
 Emeralds occur in granitic rocks; such as silicic pegmatite, 
in high-temperature calcite veins, in crystalline schist, and in 
altered marble.
 In North Carolina, emeralds have been found at the Emerald- 
hiddenite mine, Alexander County; Turner mine, Cleveland County; 
and the Emerald matrix mine, Crabtree Mountain, Mitchell County. 
None of these mines is active. At the Emerald-hiddenite mine 
emerald crystals of gem quality, associated with rutile crystals, 
black tourmaline, feldspar, quartz, hiddenite (blue-green gem 
variety of spodumene), and aquamarine, occurred in schleiren in 
gneiss. Only a few pegmatites are gem bearing. At the Turner 
mine, about a dozen emerald crystals of good grass-green color, 
associated with colorless and smoky quartz crystals and black 
tourmaline (Sterrett, 1909, p. 31), were found loose in the soil.1 
The country rocks are schist and gneiss intruded by masses of 
granite. Only one pegmatite dike yielded a few small emerald 
crystals of pale green color. The emeralds occurred with quartz, 
feldspar, black tourmaline, and green beryl, in a red, clayey 
cavity. Most of the emeralds found at these two mines were flawed 
by scratches and silky internal markings. At the Emerald ma- 
trix mine the stones were flawed and pale. Occurrences of emer- 
ald also have been reported near the Bowen River, Cherokee 
County, S. C.
 Physical properties:
 CORUNDUM
 A1203
 Ruby and sapphire 
Varieties: Sapphire (blue and all colors except red), ruby (red),
 star sapphire, star ruby. 
Crystal form: Hexagonal. 
Parting: Parallel to basal plane and unit rhombohedron.
 Hardness; 9,
 Specific gravity: 3. 95-4. 10. 
Luster: Adamantine to vitreous.
 Ruby and sapphire are the important gem varieties of corundum. 
The color of the ruby ranges from rose to dark-purplish red. The 
dark red or "pigeon-blood" red is the most desirable. The sap- 
phire ranges in color from blue to pink, yellow, and colorless with 
some green and violet varieties. The finest stones are "cornflower 
blue. " Good color is important because corundum gems have low
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 211
 dispersion and, therefore, lack fire. Both stones are dichroic. 
The color of a ruby is thought to be caused by chromic oxide, and 
that of a sapphire by titanium oxide (Smith, 1949, p. 273). Radi- 
ation deepens color in these stones or creates color if they were 
previously colorless. When heated, a ruby turns green and retains 
this shade until almost cool at which time it regains its original 
red color. A star ruby or sapphire contains fibrous inclusions 
arranged in bundles 60° apart. This starlike structure is best dis- 
played when the stone is properly oriented and cut in deep cabochon.
 The original sources of ruby and sapphire are metamorphic 
rocks, such as gneiss, schist, and marble, and igneous rocks, 
such as granite,'nepheline-syenite, and peridotite. The gems are 
found in the parent rock or in placer deposits derived from these 
rocks. Commonly associated minerals are spinel, tourmaline, 
kyanite, magnetite, chlorite, and nepheline.
 The only notable locality where rubies have been mined in the 
United States is Cowee Valley, Macon County, N. C. Here, the 
rubies probably were formed in a matrix of hornblende gneiss and 
pegmatite lenses in hornblende gneiss. Both the gneiss and peg- 
matite are badly weathered at the surface. In the decomposed 
pegmatite, pink to lilac-colored corundum is abundant, but little 
red corundum of gem quality has been found. Most of the gem 
material was obtained from nearby stream gravels. Associated 
minerals were all shades of corundum, ilmenite, rutile, kyanite, 
red and pink rhodolite garnet, and zircon. Gem rubies also have 
been found in the Calumet mine, Salida, Colo.; Marion Claim, 
Fremont County, Wyo.; and in Yogo Creek, Judith Basin County, 
Mont.
 Sapphires have been mined in many localities in Montana; the 
largest mine is near Yogo Gulch, Judith Basin County. The sap- 
phires occur in a nearly vertical igneous dike that intrudes gently 
dipping limestone. The dike rock is easily weathered to soft, 
yellow or gray clay at the surface and greenish-gray friable rock 
and blue clay at depth (Clabaugh, 1952, p. 11). The principal 
minerals in the dike rock are biotite mica and pyroxene (diopside 
variety) containing minute inclusions ofcalcite, quartz, pyroxene, 
and pyrite. Limestone fragments are abundant. The dike is ir- 
regular in shape and contains alternate zones of rich and barren 
rock (Sterrett, 1907, p. 30). The rock is barren where the dike 
is narrow (Clabaugh, 1952, p. 17). The" color of the stones is 
uniform and ranges from light blue to cornflower blue. Other 
Montana sapphire deposits are the Missouri River deposits, north- 
east of Helena; the Rock Creek deposit, southwest of Philipsburg, 
Granite County; Dry Cottonwood Creek deposit, northwest ofButte, 
Deer Lodge County. Other Montana sapphire occurrences are 
Quartz Gulch, Granite County; Pole Creek, Madison County; 
Browns Gulch, Silver Bow County; and in Chouteau County 
(Clabaugh, 1952, p. 54-55).
 Sapphire occurrences in other States have been reported at 
Barstow, San Bernardino County, Calif.; at the Calumet iron mine, 
Chaffee County, Colo.; several localities in Fremont County, Colo.;
212
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 in Adams and Washington Counties, Idaho; Morgan County, Ind.; 
at the Sapphire and White Water mine, Jackson County, N. C.; 
and at Corundum Hill mine, Macon County, N. C.
 SEMIPRECIOUS GEMS
 BERYL 
Aquamarine, heliodor, morganite
 Be3Ala (SiO3)6 
Physical properties:
 Varieties: Aquamarine (bluish green), heliodor (golden yellow),
 morganite (rose pink). 
Crystal form: Hexagonal. 
Cleavage: Indistinct, parallel to basal face. 
Hardness: 7.5-8.0. 
Specific gravity: 2. 63-2.80. 
Luster: Vitreous.
 The semiprecious varieties of beryl are aquamarine, heliodor, 
and morganite. Aquamarine ranges in color from yellowish green 
to bluish green, heliodor is golden yellow, and morganite ranges 
from rose pink to rose red. Beryl also occurs in yellow, blue, 
and colorless crystals. The shades of aquamarine are probably 
due to the presence of ferric oxide; whereas those of morganite 
may be due to the presence of lithia; and the color of heliodor, to 
the presence of uranium oxide (Smith, 1949, p. 286). These vari- 
eties occur in larger quantities, bigger crystals, and have more 
uniform transparency than the emerald. Their beauty is best dis- 
played in a step or mixed cut. The physical properties of beryl 
are discussed on page 209.
 These varieties of beryl occur in granitic rocks, principally in 
pegmatite deposits. Aquamarine has been mined in Maine, Con- 
necticut, California, New Hampshire, Colorado, Montana, Georgia, 
and North Carolina. Morganite and heliodor are rare in the United 
States. Salmon-pink beryl crystals of good quality, but few of 
true rose-red color, have been found in the Pala and Mesa Grande 
districts, San Diego County, Calif. Additional aquamarine local- 
ities are listed below:
 California: 
Colorado: 
Connecticut: 
Georgia: 
Idaho: 
Maine: 
' 
San Diego County, Ramona 
Chaffee County, Mount Antero region
 Fremont County, Parkdale, Royal 
Gorge. 
Litchfield County
 Middlesex County, Portland, Haddam
 Rabun County, Clayton, Highlands 
Boise County, Centerville
 Nez Perce County, Lewiston 
Androscoggin County, Mount .Apatite
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Maine Cont.
 Maryland: 
Massachusetts:
 New Hampshire: 
North Carolina:
 Pennsylvania:
 South Carolina: 
South Dakota: 
Utah:
 Oxford County, Albany, Buckfield,
 Grafton, Lovell, Norway, Paris,
 and Stoneham. 
Sagadahoc County, Topsham 
Baltimore County, Arundel gneiss
 quarry.
 Hampshire County, Goshen 
Worcester County, Fitchburg, Royal 
ston.
 Grafton County, Grafton 
Alexander County, Barrett Mountain 
Buncombe County, Asheville 
Burke County, South Mountain 
Caldwell County 
Gaston County 
Jackson County, Grimshawe mine,
 Montvale, R. E. Brown Prospect. 
Macon County, Littlefield mine, Tes
sentee Creek.
 Madison County, Knapp's, Reed Creek 
Mitchell County, Bakersville 
Yancey County, Burnsville, Ray Mica
 mine.
 Delaware County, Avondale 
Montgomery County, Philadelphia
 are'a. 
'
 Anderson County, Anderson 
Custer County, Black Hills 
Tooele County, Ibapah Mountain
 Golden beryl has been found at the following localities:
 California:
 Connecticut:
 Maine:
 Maryland:
 New Hampshire:
 New York: 
North Carolina:
 San Diego County, Pala district 
Litchfield County, Litchfield 
Androscoggin County, Auburn, Mount 
Apatite, and Poland. 
Montgomery County, Burnt Mills Hills 
Grafton County, Grafton 
Merrimack County, Danbury 
Strafford County, Center Strafford 
Sullivan County, Ac worth, Beryl Moun- 
tain. 
Westchester County, Bedford Village,
 North Castle. 
Burke County, South Mountain
 213
 Occurrences of morganite have been reported at Simpson Springs, 
The Dugway Range, Utah, and at Hemet, Calif. It also has been 
recovered from pegmatite deposits in Maine.
214
 Physical properties:
 Varieties: Alexandrite (bluish green, deep olive green), cat's- "
 eye or cymophane (chatoyant). 
Crystal form: Ortho rhombic. 
Cleavage: One, parallel to faces. 
Hardness: 8. 5. 
Specific gravity: 3. 50-3. 84. 
Luster: Vitreous.
 Chrysoberyl ranges in color from shades of yellow and brown 
to bluish green and deep olive green. Alexandrite, the greenish 
 variety, has strong dichroism in columbine red, orange yellow, 
and emerald green. Cat's -eye or cymophane is a cloudy variety 
that is opalescent when properly oriented and cut en cabochon. 
Shades of yellow are caused by the presence of iron, and shades 
of green are probably caused by chromium. Chrysoberyl occurs 
in twinned, tabular crystals that lack brilliance. It is a hard gem 
stone, ranking 8. 5 on Moh's scale. Cat's -eye is cabochon-cut, 
whereas alexandrite is brilliant- or step-cut. Chrysoberyl has 
not been synthesized. The so-called synthetic alexandrite is 
either synthetic corundum or synthetic spinel.
 Chrysoberyl is a rare mineral that occurs in granitic rocks, 
silicic pegmatites, and mica schist. Most gem varieties, how- 
ever, have been found in alluvial deposits derived therefrom. 
Very few occurrences of gem Chrysoberyl have been reported in 
the United States. Localities are at Drew^Hill, Golden, Jefferson 
County, Colo. ; Boulder County, Colo. ; Haddam, Conn. ; Ragged 
Jack Mountain, Conn. ; Oxford County, Maine; and Greenfield, 
N. Y. The largest crystals of Chrysoberyl in the United States 
were obtained from a pegmatite dike at Drew Hill, Golden, Colo. 
(Pearl, 1951, p. 77). The olive -green Chrysoberyl was associated 
with quartz, muscovite, apatite, beryl, pyrite, and andradite.
 FELDSPAR GROUP
 Amazonite: KAlSi308 (microcline).
 Oligoclase: 90-70 percent l,NaAlSi308]+ 10-30 percent CaAL,Si2Oe.
 Labradorite: 50-30 percent NaAlSi30& -i- 50-70 percent CaAJ2Si2Oa
 (plagioclase feldspar).
 Moonstone: KAlSi308 and NaAlSi308 (albite and orthoclase). 
Sunstone: 
90-70 percent [KAIS^OJ -I- 10-30 percent
 (anorthite) .
 Physical properties:
 Species: Amazonite (green) jlabradorite (white, gray, brown with 
play of colors); moonstone (whitish); oligoclase (clear); sunstone 
(whitish with reddish and yellowish rays).
 Crystal form: Monoclinic (orthoclase); triclinic (albite, labra- 
dorite, microcline, and oligoclase).
01 R 
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
Physical properties Continued
 Cleavage: Excellent in two directions at 90°.
 h% Hardness: 6.0-6.5. 
Specific gravity: 2. 54-2.75. 
Luster: Vitreous, sometimes pearly.
 ^ °
 Amazonite, labradorite, moonstone, oligoclase, and sunstone 
belong to the mineral group known as the feldspar family. Ama- 
zonite is the green gem variety of microcline; labradorite is a 
plagioclase feldspar showing a play of colors, predominantly blue 
and green; moonstone is a white gem variety of albite and ortho- 
clase; gem oligoclase occurs as clear glassy crystals; and sun- 
stone is white oligoclase, orthoclase, microcline, albite, or 
labradorite with reddish and yellowish reflections. Although these 
gem stones are somewhat similar in chemical composition, they 
differ in physical properties. The difference in their cleavage 
angles is 1°. Their color dispersion is very low. Moonstone, 
the most valuable gem stone of this group, is composed of thin 
layers of orthoclase and albite (the soda feldspar). This linear 
arrangement gives the whitish stone a blue cast: the thinner the 
layers, the bluer the stone. If the layers are thick, the stone has 
a white sheen. Sunstone is oligoclase, orthoclase, microcline, 
albite, or labradorite containing minute scales of hematite. This 
feature is caused by reflections from crystals of an iron mineral, 
hematite or goethite, scattered throughout the stone. Both moon- 
stone and sunstone are cut en cabochon. Labradorite displays 
many colors: blue, green, yellow, fire red, and pearl gray. 
This effect is probably caused by the interference of light from 
the reflection of thin inclusions of several minerals. Amazonite, 
the most abundant feldspar gem in the United States, ranges in 
color from bluish green to greenish gray. It is opaque. Most 
jewelers cut amazonite into beads or carve figures from it.
 Feldspar gems occur in igneous rocks, especially in pegmatite 
dikes. Very few specimens of moonstone have been found in the 
United States. The principal localities have been the Rutherford 
mine, Amelia Court House, Va.; Mount Beckwith, Colo.; and 
Rialto, Funeral Mountains, Calif. Sunstone has been found in 
Pennsylvania at Feasterville, Bucks County; Nottingham Township, 
Chester County; and Mineral Hill, Media, Delaware County. In 
North Carolina it has been found at Medlock Mountain, Bakersville; 
and in Virginia, at Hewlett, Hanover County, and Amelia Court 
House, Amelia County. Amazonite has been produced commer- 
cially in Colorado near Pikes Peak, El Paso County, and in the 
Crystal Peak region near Florissant, Teller County; and in Vir- 
ginia near Amelia Court House, Amelia County. Other localities 
where amazonite has been found are in Colorado at Deertrail, 
Arapahoe County, near Sedalia, Douglas County, in Custer County, 
in the St. Peter's Dome area, El Paso County, and in the Tarryall 
Mountains, Park County; in Maine, at Mount Desert, Hancock 
County, and at Mount Mica, Paris, Oxford County; in Massachu- 
setts, at Rockport, Essex County; in New Mexico, Rio Arriba
 412673 O - 57 - 3
216
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 County; in North Carolina, at Burnsville, Yancey County; in 
Pennsylvania, at Media and Middletown, Delaware County; and in 
Texas, at Katemcy, Mason County.
 The Pikes Peak region in Colorado is a famous collecting area 
for amazonite in the United States. The country rock is principally 
coarse biotite granite that has been cut by many pegmatites. Both 
the granite and pegmatites contain many cavities or pockets, some 
of which are lined with well-formed crystals of amazonite, smoky 
and clear quartz, some topaz, andphenacite (a colorless beryllium 
gem stone). The color of the Pikes Peak amazonite ranges from 
gray to bright green and may or may not be stained with iron min- 
erals. Other associated minerals are microcline, albite, biotite, 
fluorite, columbite, goethite, hematite, limonite, and zircon.
 The amazonite at the Rutherford mine, Amelia Court House, Va. , 
occurs in pegmatite dikes that cut biotite schist and gneiss. The 
dikes contain crystals of quartz, mica, and feldspar, large beryl 
crystals intergrown with feldspar, hyacinth-red spessartite gar- 
net, and pale -purple fluorite. Labradorite occurs in the central 
Adirondack region, northern New York; the Byrd ranch, Alpine, 
Brewster County, Tex. ; and Clear Lake, Millard County, Utah.
 GARNET FAMILY 
R3"R2" '(SiO4)3 R" = Ca, Mg, Fe ++, or Mn ++ R" 1 ' = Al,
 Fe +++, Cr, or Ti 
Physical properties:
 Varieties: Grossularite (reddish orange); pyrope (fiery red);
 almandite (columbine red); spessartite (orange to deep red);
 andradite (demantoid, grass to emerald green; topazolite, wine
 yellow); uvarovite (emerald green); rhodolite (purple or pale
 red). 
Crystal form: Isometric.
 Hardness: 6.5-7.5.
 Specific gravity: 3.15-4.30.
 Luster: Vitreous, resinous (andradite is subadamantine).
 The term garnet applies to a group of six minerals which are 
closely related. This group crystallizes in the isometric system. 
Its basic chemical formula is the same, but the elements in each 
garnet differ widely. This group is an isomorphous series in 
which several chemically similar elements freely replace each 
other in solid solution.
 Garnets are divided into three groups: the aluminum garnets, 
including grossularite, pyrope, almandite, and spessartite; the 
iron garnet, andradite; and the chromium garnet, uvarovite. The 
popular gem garnets are the fiery-red pyrope, crimson and colum- 
bine-red almandite, and the emerald-green andradite. Grossular- 
ite is not often used for gems because its color is not pleasing 
and its transparency is imperfect. Deep-red spessartite is very 
rare and, therefore, not often available for gem purposes. Green 
uvarovite is never used for gems because it does not occur in 
crystals large enough to cut.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
91 7 
^L
 : cinnamon-stone, hyacmthoressonite:Ca3A!2( Si 04)3. 
The color of grossularite ranges from pale olive -green yellow- 
ish orange to reddish brown. Cinnamon-stone is the golden-yel- 
low grossularite, and hyacinth or essonite is the orange and 
reddish-brown variety. The hardness of grossularite is 7. 25, a 
little harder than quartz. Its specific gravity is 3. 53.
 Pyrope:
 The red color of pyrope in some stones resembles that of the 
ruby. Pyrope ranges from deep red to nearly black. Rhodolite 
is a rose -red and purple subvariety, having a composition of two 
parts pyrope and one part almandite. The hardness of pyrope is 
7. 5, and its specific gravity is 3. 51.
 Almandite (carbuncle): Fe3Al2(Si04)3.
 Almandite, which has a variable chemical formula, grades into 
pyrope. Its color is deep crimson and violet or columbine red. 
Almandite ranks 7. 5 on Moh's scale of hardness and is harder 
than the other garnets, with the exception of uvarovite. Its spe- 
cific gravity is 4. 25. Good-quality almandite is more expensive 
than pyrope. The carbuncle is a crimson -red almandite cut en 
cabochon.
 Spessartite: Mn3Al2(SiO4)3.
 Spessartite is a beautiful aurora red or brownish red; it would 
be a very popular gem stone if it were not so rare. Its color may 
also be yellow or orange brown. The hardness of Spessartite is 
7. 25, and its specific gravity is 4. 18.
 Andradite (demantoid, top azo li t e):
 The iron garnet, andradite, is a common garnet, but its sub- 
varieties, demantoid and topazolite, are gem materials. Common 
andradite ranges in color from wine, greenish yellow, brownish 
yellow, grayish, to dark green, and grayish black to black. 
Demantoid is emerald green and has a brilliant luster. It is the 
most valuable of all garnets. Topazolite is wine yellow and closely 
resembles some topaz in color. The specif ic gravity of andradite 
is 3.75, and its hardness is 6.5.
 Uvarovite: Ca3Cr2(SiO4)3.
 The chromium garnet, uvarovite, is emerald green and has a 
vitreous luster. Its hardness is 7. 5, and its specific gravity 
ranges from 3.41 to 3. 52.
 Garnet is a common and widely distributed accessory mineral. 
It is found in metamorphic rocks, such as mica schist, hornblende 
gneiss, and marble; in pegmatite dikes; in basic igneous rocks, 
such as dunite and peridotite; and rocks, such as serpentine, de- 
rived from them.
 Grossularite and essonite are found chiefly with vesuvianite, 
wollastonite, diopside, and scapolite in marble and dolomite. This 
species and its subvariety are usually found in the contact zone of
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 igneous intrusives with metamorphic rocks. Beautiful essonite has 
been found in Andover, Maine; at theLeiper quarry, Avondale, Pa.; 
in Bakersville, N. C0 ; in Silver City, N. Mex.; at the Calumet 
iron mine, Turret, Colo.; and in Dos Cabezas Springs, San 
Diego County, Calif. Grossularite crystals of no gem value 
have been found in Gila Canyon, Ariz.; Tilly Foster mine, Brew- 
ster, N. Y.; and the Good Hope mine, Pala district, San Diego 
County, Calif.
 Pyrope is characteristic of peridotite rocks and serpentines 
containing much magnesia and iron. The finest pyrope garnets 
have been found in gravels on the Navajo Indian Reservation in 
northwestern New Mexico and northeastern Arizona near Gypsum 
Valley (Sterrett, 1908, p. 25). Other localities are Deadwood 
Gulch, Boise County, Idaho; Elephant Gulch, Custer County, 
S. Dak.; Rattlesnake Creek, Tulare County, Calif.; Laurel Creek, 
Burke County, N. C. Rhodolite, the rose-red and purple sub- 
variety, occurs in stream gravels in Mason Branch Valley, near 
Franklin, Jackson County, and Cowee Valley, Macon County, 
N. C. The gravels probably were derived from mica schist con- 
taining large amounts of biotite and bronzite (Sterrett, 1910, 
p. 27).
 Almandite occurs in mica schist and other metamorphic rocks 
containing alumina and iron. In Avery, Burke, Caldwell, and 
Catawba Counties, N. C., it is incrusted with brown limonite. 
Deep-purple crystals have been found in placer gravels near 
Lewiston, Idaho. Other localities are Black Canon, Colorado 
River, Nev.; White Pine County, Nev.; Acworth, Grafton, and 
Hanover, N. H.; Ruby Mountain, Canon City, and South Park, 
Colo.; Chester and Delaware Counties, Pa.; and Gore Mountain, 
North-Creek, N. Y.
 Spessartite occurs in some granitic rocks, quartzite, and schist. 
At Ruby Mountain, Chaffee County, Colo., it is found with topaz 
in rhyolite. Other localities are Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, 
Pa. j Haddam, Conn.; Amelia Court House, Va.; and in San Juan 
County, Utah.
 Andradite is a common constituent of volcanic rocks; associated 
minerals are nephelite and leucite. It also is found in limestone 
contact zones. The subvarieties, demantoid and topazolite, also 
occur in volcanic rocks but are not common. A few localities 
where common andradite has been found are in Lehigh County, 
Pa.; Franconia, N. H.; and New Haven, Conn. Demantoid of
 gem quality has not been found in the United States, but topazo- 
lite has been obtained from Mount Sneffels, Colo. and Magnet
 Cove, Ark.
 Uvarovite, the chromium garnet, OCCUrS With ChrOffilte 111 
Serpentine and also in granular limestone. Small amounts have 
been found at Wood's chromite mine near Texas, Lancaster 
COUIlty, Pa. j at Tilly Foster mine, Brewster, N. Y.; at Green
 Valley, American River, Calif.; Jacksonville, Calif.; Clear 
Creek, Idria, San Benito County, Calif.; and in the Graham Moun- 
tain, Ariz.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
JADE
 Jadeite: 
NaAl(Si03)2 
Nephrite: Ca2(Mg, Fe)5(OE)2(Si40li)2 
Physical properties:
 Jadeite 
Color: Apple green to nearly emerald 
green, bluish green, leek green,
 greenish white, and nearly white.
 Sometimes white containing spots of
 bright green.
 Crystal form: Monoclinic. 
Cleavage: Two perfect, at 90°. 
Hardness: 6.5-7.0. 
Specific gravity: 3.3-3.5. 
Luster: Subvitreous, pearly on sur- 
faces of cleavage.
 Nephrite
 (tremolite or actinolite)
 White to dark green.
 Monoclinic. 
Two perfect, mutually
 inclined at 120°.
 6.0-6.5. 
2.96-3.10. 
Glistening.
 91 Q 
^± D
 The term jade includes jadeite, a pyroxene; and nephrite, an 
amphibole. Both minerals commonly are green, tough, and 
fibrous. Their toughness is caused by a complex interweaving of 
minute fibrous crystals. Jadeite and nephrite are usually found 
in compact masses and, rarely, in monoclinic crystals. Jadeite, 
the choicer and rarer jade, has a higher specific gravity and de- 
gree of hardness than nephrite. The highly prized emerald-green 
color of jadeite is due to the presence of chromium. The green 
shades in nephrite are caused by the presence of ferrous iron. 
The Chinese usually carve it into intricate patterns and use it for 
rings, pendants, pins, and small statues.
 Nephrite and jadeite are minerals of metamorphic origin. They 
rarely are found in place, usually occurring in boulders of pebbles 
in stream gravels. Where found in place, nephrite is associated 
with serpentine as rounded masses and with hornblende gneiss and 
schist; jadeite is associated with albite (feldspar) in pegmatite 
dikes that cut dark-green serpentine. Nephrite and jadeite rarely 
are found together. However, in 1950 they both were obtained 
from stream gravels at the North Fork of the Eel River, Trinity 
County, Calif. The most famous nephrite locality in the United 
States is southeast of Lander, Wyo. Other nephrite localities are 
in Marin, Monterey, and Tulare Counties, Calif. Jadeite deposits 
are in Clear Creek, San Benito County, and in Cloverdale and 
Valley Ford, Sonoma County, Calif.
 LAPIS LAZULI 
Lazurite: 3NaAlSiC4- Na£ 
Hauynite: 3NaAlSi04- CaSO4
 Physical properties:
 Color: Deep azure blue, greenish blue. 
Crystal form: Isometric.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 Physical properties Continued
 Cleavage: Imperfect to distinct dodecahedral. 
_j Hardness: 5-6 (5.5-6.0, hauynite; 5.0-5.5, lazurite). 
| 
Specific gravity: Variable.
 Luster: Vitreous.
 Lapis lazuli is a mixture of blue hauynite or lazurite, brassy 
yellow pyrite, and white calcite with minor amounts of diopside 
and mica. Lazurite and hauynite are isomorphous. A higher con- 
tent of either mineral increases, the value of the lapis lazuli. Be- 
cause it is too soft to be worn in rings, lapis lazuli is used for 
ornamental purposes, such as amulets, vases, table tops, and 
material for mosaics. It usually occurs in compact, massive 
form and in mottled colors of blue, yellow, and white.
 Although the United States contains few deposits of lapis lazuli, 
two mines have yielded the gem; one is in Cascade Canyon, San 
Bernardino County, Calif., and the other is at Italian Mountain, 
Gunnison County, Colo. Lapis lazuli occurs among the crystal- 
line limestone and dolomite that have been altered by heat and 
mineralizing solutions. Hauynite occurs only in igneous rocks 
containing insufficient silica to form feldspars, whereas lazurite 
occurs as a contact metamorphic mineral in limestone near a 
granitic contact.
 Physical properties:
 Varieties:
 QUARTZ GROUP
 SiO2 
Coarsely crystalline:
 Amethyst (purplish or bluish violet) 
Cat's-eye'or tiger's-eye (chatoyant) 
Citrine (yellow) 
Milky quartz (milky white) 
Quartz with mineral inclusions: 
Aventurine (spangled) 
Gold quartz 
Prase QLeek green) 
Rutilated quartz (fibrous) 
Quartz crystal (colorless) 
Rose quartz (pink)
 Smoky quartz, cairngorm (smoky yellow to brownish 
black). 
Cryptocrystalline:
 Agate (variegated with alternating bands of color) 
Moss agate (chalcedony with impurities usually 
MnOa in mosslike patterns). 
Onyx 
Carnelian (red chalcedony)
 Chrysoprase (apple-green chalcedony)
 Heliotrope or bloodstone (green chalcedony with small
 red inclusions). 
Jasper (chalcedony colored red by minute inclusions
 of hematite).
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Physical properties Continued
 i
 Crystal form: Hexagonal. 
Cleavage: None (conchoidal fracture). 
Hardness: 7. 
Specific gravity:
 Coarsely crystalline varieties: 2. 65-2. 66.
 Cryptocrystalline varieties: 2. 58-2. 64. 
Luster: Vitreous, sometimes greasy, splendent.
 The quartz group is divided into two parts: coarsely crystal- 
line varieties composed of silica (Si02), and Cryptocrystalline 
varieties composed of a mixture of minute quartz particles and 
hydrated silica in an amorphous form. The coarsely crystalline 
varieties, rock crystal and amethyst, are cut into gems and the 
Cryptocrystalline varieties, agate and jasper, are used for orna- 
mental purposes.
 Quartz has a simple chemical composition: silicon dioxide 
(SiO2). The beautiful colors of amethyst, citrine, and other vari- 
eties are caused by traces of metallic oxides in the basic compo- 
sition. Quartz crystallizes in the rhombohedral division of the 
hexagonal system and is frequently twinned. An X-ray study of 
quartz indicates that its atomic structure is a spiral which causes 
the formation of right- and left-handed crystals. The specific 
gravity is constant in dense quartz but varies in quartz containing 
inclusions or cavities.
 Quartz is one of the most abundant minerals in the earth's 
crust. It occurs in igneous rocks that have an excess of silica, 
such as granite, rhyolite, and pegmatite. It also occurs in gneiss 
and schist and may be deposited as vein material by hot silica- 
bearing solutions.
 COARSELY CRYSTALLINE VARIETIES
 Amethyst ranges in color from pale orchid to deep purple and may 
owe its color to the presence of manganese or boron. The most val- 
uable amethyst is reddish-violet. This gem stone is slightly fluo- 
rescent. When heat-treated, the color of some becomes a deep 
brown, then orange, and finally colorless. In the United States, the 
most important amethyst deposits are found in Clayton, Rabun 
County, Ga., and near Holbrook, Navajo County, Ariz. Other lo- 
calities are in Amherst and Amelia Counties, Va.; Alexander, 
Lincoln, and Macon Counties, N. C.; the Keweenaw Peninsula, 
Mien.'; in Jefferson County, Mont.; and Fremont County, Colo. 
Several minor occurrences have been found in southeastern Penn- 
sylvania; at Pleasant Mountain and Denmark, Maine; at Indianap- 
olis, Ind.;inAbbeville and Anderson Counties, S. C.; atPaterson, 
N. J.; at Granite, Baltimore County, Md.; and in Llano County, Tex.
 "Tiger's-eye" is a golden-brown variety of quartz pseudomor- 
phic after crocidolite asbestos. The fibrous structure of the 
asbestos is retained.
222
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 Citrine, the golden-yellow, transparent variety of quartz, owes 
its color to the presence of ferric oxide. Localities where citrine 
has been found are the Newman mine, Livermore, Calif.; at 
Tuscarora, Elko County, and Gold Mountain and Palmetto Canyon, 
Esmeralda County, Nev., and at Stony Point and Taylorsville in 
Alexander County, N. C.
 Milky quartz is a translucent to opaque, white variety. It is a 
common vein mineral in igneous and metamorphic rocks. The 
color of milky quartz is the result of many tiny inclusions of 
water and liquid carbon dioxide and fractures; the apparent white 
color is caused by the reflection of light by the walls of the cavi- 
ties. The milky color may be tinted red, yellow, yellowish brown, 
or bluish gray. In Buckfield, Maine, milky quartz crystals were 
found in one of the largest pockets of quartz crystals ever discov- 
ered in the United States (Dake, Fleener, and Wilson, 1938, 
p. 107). Boulders of milky quartz have been found in the glacial 
drift of Illinois and other North Central States.
 The term quartz with mineral inclusions pertains to all varie- 
ties of quartz that contain other minerals. Quartz may include 
such minerals as rutile, tourmaline, hornblende, epidote, actino- 
lite, goethite, and many others because it is usually the last 
mineral to crystallize from a magma. The included crystals give 
a netlike or hairlike appearance to the stone. All varieties of 
quartz with rodlike inclusions are called sagenite; the included 
mineral is used in the name of the particular variety of sagenite. 
If rutile is included, the stone is known as "rutilated quartz;" if 
tourmaline is included, it is known as "tourmalinated quartz." 
Prase is a dull leek-green quartz containing actinolite inclusions. 
The finest domestic rutilated quartz was" found in boulders near 
Hanover, N. H. Other localities are at Florissant, Colo.; in 
Alexander, Burke, Catawba, Iredell, and Randolph Counties, 
N. C.; Amelia Court House, Va.; Lancaster County, Pa.; and the 
Calumet Hill Quarry, Cumberland, R. I. Tourmalinated quartz 
has been found at Paris, Maine, and-Stony Point, N. C.
 Quartz with spangled inclusions is known as aventurine. The 
included minerals are scales of shiny mica or hematite. The most 
familiar aventurine is of reddish-yellow color and has a coppery 
sheen. Only small quantities of aventurine have been found in the 
United States.
 Native gold may occur as disseminated growths in crystalline 
quartz, chalcedony, and agate. Gold in translucent, white, or 
clear quartz has been found in Butt-e, Calaveras, El Dorado, 
Mariposa, Nevada, Placer, Sierra, Tuolumne, and YubaCounties, 
Calif. Gold in chalcedony was obtained from the Republic mining 
district, Washington. An unusual deposit of gold in quartz with 
malachite was discovered at the Quartet mine, near Searchlight, 
Nev. Gold in black quartz has been found at the Sheep Ranch mine, 
Calaveras County, and Sutter Creek, Amador County, Calif.
 Quartz crystal is the transparent, colorless variety of quartz. 
The two best-known localities of quartz crystal in the United States 
are near Hot Springs, Ark., and in Herkimer County, N. Y.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 In New York the crystals are commonly found in the soil above 
large cavities containing doubly terminating crystals. Most of 
the Herkimer County crystals were obtained from Middleville, 
Newport, and Little Falls, N. Y. In Saline, Garland, and Mont- 
gomery Counties, Ark., quartz crystals occur in the lining of 
cavities in sandstone and massive quartz. Other localities where 
quartz crystal has been found are Diamond Island, Portland 
Harbor, Maine; Diamond Hill and Cumberland Hill, R. I.; in 
Alexander, Burke, Catawba, and Surrey Counties, N. C.; Rome, 
Georgia; in Madison County, Ark.; Fayette County, Tex.; and 
South Royalton, Vt. Quartz crystal is common and has been 
found in nearly all States.
 Rose quartz, the rose-red or pink massive variety of quartz 
owes its color to the presence of manganese or titanium; this va- 
riety rarely occurs in crystal form. The only known discoveries 
of rose quartz crystals in the United States were made at Paris 
and Newry, Maine, and Grand Rapids, Mich. (Dake, Fleener, and 
Wilson, 1938, p. 108). Rose quartz commonly occurs as partly 
translucent masses in pegmatite veins. One of the largest deposits 
is located in the Black Hills, near Custer, S» Dak. Other locali- 
ties are Albany, Maine; Southbury, Conn.; Westchester, N. Y.; 
Ashe and Stokes Counties, N. C.; Roaring Fork, Pitkin County, 
Colo.; and Tuscarora, Moray, Carlin, and Silver Peak, Nev. 
Current production is from the Black Hills region, S. Dak., and 
the Pala, Mesa Grande, and Ramona districts, San Diego County, 
Calif.
 Smoky quartz is the smoky-yellow to dark smoky-brown variety 
of coarsely crystalline quartz. Cairngorm is the smoky-yellow 
quartz made famous in Scotland. Its smoky appearance is thought 
to be the result of radium exposure to colorless quartz crystals 
(Dake, Fleener, and Wilson, 1938, p. 92). The best known local- 
ity in the United States for smoky quartz probably is the Pikes Peak 
region in Colorado where the crystals occur in association with 
amazonite and other gem stones in pockets of coarse granite. 
Other localities are Mount Antero summit, Colo.; Helena, Mont.; 
Alexander, Burke, and Catawba Counties, N.C.; Herkimer County, 
N. Y.; Goshen, Mass.; Blueberry Hill, in Stoneham, Minot, and 
Mount Pleasant in Maine; Montgomery County, Pa.; Iron Mountain, 
Missouri; and Magnet Cove, Arkansas.
 CRYPTOCRYSTALLINE VARIETIES
 All cryptocrystalline varieties are a form of chalcedony, the 
general term applied to gray or dark masses of silica that are al- 
most opaque. Cryptocrystalline varieties of quartz are tougher 
than the coarsely crystalline varieties because they are composed 
of many closely bound small crystals and amorphous particles. 
Hardness and specific gravity also vary slightly in the cryptocrys- 
talline group.
 Agate is variegated chalcedony containing colorful bands in a 
concentric arrangement. The most common colors of agate are
 412673 O - 57 - 4
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 red, yellow, brown, green, blue, gray, and black. These colors 
are the result of the presence of small amounts of metallic salts 
or iron or manganese oxides and, rarely, nickel, chromium, and 
copper. The luster is sometimes waxy. Varieties of agate are: 
"banded agate, " bands appearing three-dimensional and arranged 
in a wall-within-wall structure; "moss agate, " dendritic patterns 
of manganese dioxide, iron oxide, or chlorite fibers included in 
white or clear masses of silica; "iris agate," apparently colorless 
until proper light reveals rainbow colors caused by the diffraction 
of light from closely spaced parallel layers; and silicified trees. 
Onyx is opaque agate with parallel alternating layers of different 
colors; the layers are straight lines of uniform thickness. Onyx 
shouldnotbe confused with Mexican onyx, a banded marble. Agate 
is a secondary mineral that fills seams, fissures, veins, and cav- 
ities in rock. It may also occur as stalactitic and botryoidal 
growths. Most agates are found in gravel deposits. The most 
important States where agates are obtained are central and east- 
ern Oregon, Montana, Wyoming, Arizona, Texas, New Mexico, 
Washington, Utah, and Illinois. For exact localities consult The 
Agate Book, by H. C. Dake.
 Carnelian or sard is a clear, translucent agate ranging in color 
from yellow to red. It has been found in Jenne Creek, Hornbrook, 
Calif.; Salmon River and Cedar Creek, near Toledo, Oreg.; and 
in the Nehalem River, Vernonia, Oreg.
 Chrysoprase is the apple-green, translucent variety of chal- 
cedony. The color may range from bluish green to yellowish 
green, the result of the presence of nickel. Chrysoprase is usu- 
ally associated with silicified nickel deposits. Because nickel 
deposits are scarce in the United States, Chrysoprase is rare. 
Localities where it has been found are Nickel Mountain in western 
Oregon; near Vis alia, Calif.; Buncombe and Macon Counties, N0 C.; 
Chester County, Pa.; Gar field County, Colo.jSt. Lawrence County, 
N. Y.; and Gila and Mohave Counties, Ariz.
 Heliotrope or bloodstone is dark green, translucent chalcedony 
containing blood-red spots of jasper. The green color is due to 
chlorite and possibly iron, and the red color, to hematite. The 
few occurrences of heliotrope in the United States are at Newport 
Beach, Oreg.; in Chatham County, Ga. jnearUncompahgre, Colo.; 
and in Albany and Orange Counties, N. Y.
 The term jasper includes nearly ail varieties of impure, opaque, 
colored, amorphous quartz. Jasper may be red, yellow, brown, 
green, Wulsh; or black. These colors are due to minute inclu- 
sions of imparities; for example, irOn. JaSp6f ]S fOUIied lH Veins 
near lava BLOWS. However, it is usually obtained from gravel de
posits far from its original locality. It is widely distributed in 
the United States, especially in the Western States. The largest 
jasper deposit in the world is in the Petrified Forest, Ariz. One 
of the most famous jasper localities is the Morgan Hill district, 
Santa Clara County, Calif. Here the jasper is bright red contain- 
ing circular areas of white and gray, and therefore is known as
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
225
 orbicular jasper. Other localities are Collyer, Trego County, 
Kans.; Berkshire Hills, Rowley, and Chester, Mass.; and along 
the Hudson River in Orange County, N. Y. In Pennsylvania many 
specimens have been found along the Delaware and Schuylkill 
Rivers, near Reading; in Chester and Lancaster Counties; and 
near Bethlehem and at Jim Thorpe (Mauch Chunk). In North 
Carolina jasper has been found at Granville; Reed's Creek, 
Madison County; and in Moore and Wake Counties. Jasper has 
also been found near Sullivan City and Laredo, Tex.; San Ber- 
nardino andShastaCounties, Calif.; and near Morrison, HotSpring 
County, Ark.
 Physical properties:
 OPAL 
SiO2' n Hp
 Varieties: White opal, black opal, fire opal (reddish or orange),
 water opal (colorless), hydrophane. 
Crystal form: None (amorphous). 
Cleavage: None (conchoidal fracture). 
Hardness: 5.5-6.5. 
Specific gravity: 1.9-2. 3. 
Luster: Vitreous to resinous pearly (common opal is waxy).
 Opal may be precious but most varieties are semiprecious. It 
is asemitransparent stone having a vivid display of colors. When 
pure, opal is colorless; when impure, it may be red, yellow, 
green, blue, or black. It is an amorphous form of hydrated silica 
containing varying amounts of water. It is composed of a series 
of very thin films or layers which differ in refractivity. Opal ap- 
pears to be a solidified mass of milky glass, but when light strikes 
the stone at certain angles, flashing colors are revealed. This 
phenomenon is known as opalescence. The colors are believed 
to be caused by the different refractivities of light in the thin 
layers; the thinner and more uniform the layers, the more beauti- 
ful the colors. Opal is a soft gem stone and therefore must be 
worn with care. Hydrophane, the opaque variety of common opal, 
is very porous and will absorb any liquid. Other varieties are 
less porous but will absorb some liquid. Wearers of opal should 
keep the stone away from dirty water, ink, or colored fluids. 
Heat evaporates the water in opal and therefore causes the stone 
to shatter or to lose its color. The value of opal is deter- 
mined by its principal color, uniformity of structure, and beauty 
of opalescence. True black opals with good opalescence are the 
most valuable.
 Opal occurs as a secondary mineral associated with volcanic 
rocks. It is also found in seams and fissures of sedimentary, 
igneous, and metamorphic rocks. The forms of opal range from 
massive, botryoidal, stalactitic to earthy, depending upon how the 
silica was deposited. Very little precious opal has been found in 
the United States, but common opal has been obtained from New 
York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Oregon.
226 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 The best-known deposit of precious opal in the United States is in 
Virgin Valley, Humboldt County, Nev. The opals are obtained 
from thin seams of volcanic ash in the bottom of a Tertiary lake. 
The gem material occurs as opalized wood which appears to be 
driftwood that was covered by volcanic ash and completely petri- 
fied by opaline solutions. The greatest variety of opals in the 
world is found here (Dake, Fleener, and Wilson, 1938, p. 249). 
Other localities for precious opal in the United States are in 
lava flows of the Columbia Plateaus in Washington, Idaho, and 
Oregon.
 SPODUMENE 
Kunzite and hiddenite
 LiAl(Si03)2 
Physical properties:
 Varieties: Kunzite (bluish pink to lilac pink), hiddenite (emerald 
green).
 Crystal form: Monoclinic.
 Cleavage: Two perfect, prismatic cleavages and one good part- 
ing.
 Hardness: 6.5-7.0.
 Specific gravity: 3.13-3. 20.
 Luster: Vitreous.
 Kunzite and hiddenite are the rare, transparent varieties of 
spodumene. Kunzite ranges in color from bluish pink to lilac 
pink; hiddenite ranges in color from yellowish green to emerald 
green. The color of kunzite fades upon long exposure to light. 
Common spodumene is white, yellow, or green. Spodumene usu- 
ally occurs as deeply striated, monoclinic prisms that are often 
twinned. Most spodumene is opaque. Perhaps the rapid weather- 
ing of spodumene explains the reason so few deposits of its gem 
varieties have been found.
 Spodumene occurs in very large crystals in pegmatite dikes. 
The most notable locality for kunzite is in the Pala district, San 
Diego County, Calif. The gem occurs with other lithia minerals 
in a series of broad, uniform pegmatite dikes. Kunzite is found 
in the core of the pegmatite, generally in a very coarse-grained 
quartz-spodumene unit. Quartz is the common associate, but 
cleavelandite, muscovite, and lepidolite also are found with it. 
Gem-quality crystals usually are enclosed in clay and a few occur 
loose at the bottom of voids or pockets. Most gem crystals are less 
than 2 inches long but some are nearly 15 inches long and weigh 
24 ounces or more. Kunzite also has been found at Cohuila Moun- 
tain, Riverside County, Calif.; Spruce Pine, N. C.; Branchville, 
Conn.; and Andover, Maine.
 The first reported locality for hiddenite in the United States is 
Stony Point, Alexander County, N. C. It has Since been found in 
pegmatites of the Black Hills, S. Dak. It occurs with emerald and 
quartz in pockets of pegmatite dikes (see p. 210).
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
TOPAZ 
[Al(F,OH)2]AlSiO4
 Physical properties:
 991
 ^ '
 Color:' Colorless and pale brown, blue, and pinkish shades of 
yellow.
 Crystal form: Orthorhombic.
 Cleavage: Perfect, parallel to basal face.
 Hardness: 8.
 Specific gravity: 3.4-3.6.
 Luster: Vitreous.
 The most prized colors in topaz are reddish pink and wine yel- 
low. 
The natural reddish-pink topaz is very rare. However, 
brownish-yellow topaz from Brazil may easily be transformed to 
a pink shade by application of heat. The pink color is permanent 
because the heat changes the atomic structure of topaz. Applica- 
tion of heat is most effective on Brazilian stones. Topaz may 
contain inclusions of liquid carbon dioxide. Yellow topaz is faintly 
dichroic and pink topaz is very dichroic in reddish-yellow and 
pinkish-yellow shades. Gem topaz is transparent and vitreous, 
but not brilliant. The stone must be handled carefully by the gem 
cutter, and it is usually brilliant-cut in front and step-cut in 
back.
 Topaz occurs in pegmatite dikes and in cavities in granite. It 
is formed by the action of hot acid vapors on rocks rich in alumi- 
num silicates. It is commonly associated with minerals of similar 
origin such as fluorite, cass'iterite, and tourmaline. Colorless 
and bluish transparent topaz has been found in California, Colorado, 
Utah, and New Hampshire. In San Diego County, Calif., both blue 
and yellow varieties have been found; colorless and sherry-brown 
topazes were obtained in the Thomas Mountain district of Utah. 
Other localities are Nathrop, Colo.; Tarryall Mountains, north of 
Lake George, Colo.; North Chatham, N. H.; Streeter, Mason 
County, Tex.; and Topsham, Maine.
 TOURMALINE
 (Complex sodium-aluminum borosilicate) 
Physical properties:
 Varieties: Achroite (colorless), indicolite (indigo blue), rubellite
 (reddish), siberite (violet red), schorl (black). 
Crystal form: Hexagonal. 
Cleavage: None. 
Hardness: 7.0-7.5. 
Specific gravity: 2. 98-3. 20. 
Luster: Vitreous to resinous.
 Tourmaline occurs in a great variety of colors ranging from rose 
red (rubellite) and violet red (siberite) to indigo blue (indicolite), 
green, yellow, brown, and black (schorl). A colorless variety 
known as achroite is very rare. Tourmaline may have more than 
one color in a single crystal. If so, the colors usually are strongly 
contrasting and in many crystals have abrupt boundaries. The
228
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 colors may be separated in a plane perpendicular to the length of 
the crystal or arranged in cylindrical zones. Watermelon tour- 
maline, having a pink core and green exterior, is an example of 
cylindrical color arrangement. In some crystals, the colors are 
reversed. Tourmaline is found in almost every color except sap- 
phire blue and emerald green. The chemical composition of 
tourmaline is a complex borosilicate containing varying amounts 
of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, lithium, fluorine, 
and hydrogen. On the basis of its composition tourmaline may be 
divided into three types which grade into one another:
 1. Alkali tourmaline containing sodium, potassium, and lithium. Example, ru
bellite. 
2* Magnesium tourmaline containing.much;magnesium. Example, achroite
 and brown varieties. 
3. Iron tourmaline containing much iron. Example, schorl.
 Vitreous, clear, and transparent alkali tourmalines furnish the 
best gem material. The prismatic crystals are striated and have 
a different type of termination at each end. In cross section the 
crystals have a rounded, triangular shape. Dichroism is strong 
in the brown and green varieties. In order to permit the maximum 
amount of light to enter the stone, most tourmaline must be cut 
so that a facet perpendicular to the table is nearly at right angles 
to the length of the crystal.' Tourmaline is usually brilliant-cut 
in front and step-cut in back; fibrous varieties are cut en cabochon 
to display their chatoyancy (cat's-eye effect). Fractures are 
common in many tourmalines. The specific gravity varies with 
the color: the specific gravity of red stones ranges from 3.01 to 
3.06, and of black stones, from 3.11 to 3.20. Tourmaline is 
fairly soft and therefore should not be set in a ring.
 Tourmaline occurs as an accessory mineral in the acidic rocks, 
granite and pegmatite; and in the metamorphic rocks, schist and 
crystalline limestone. It is formed at high temperatures and pres- 
sures in the presence of vapors high in boron and fluorine. Rubellite, 
the lithia tourmaline, is usually associated with lithia-bearing mus- 
covite and lepidolite. Most varieties of tourmaline occur in peg- 
matite deposits where they are associated with feldspar, quartz, and 
muscovite. The magnesian tourmaline, however, is found in lime- 
stone. Black tourmaline is a common accessory mineral in meta- 
morphic rocks. In the United States excellent gerri tourmaline has 
been found in the Pala, Mesa Grande, Rincon, and Ramona districts, 
San Diego County, Calif.; and at Mount Mica near Paris, at Mount 
Apatite near Auburn, Mount Rubellite, Rumford Falls, andHebron,
 Maine. Other gem tourmaline localities in the United States are 
Royal Gorge and Pikes Peak districts, Colo.; Riverside County, 
Calif.; and Haddam, Conn. Dark-colored tourmaline crystals have 
been obtained fromCochise,Coconino, Maricopa, Pima, Pinal, Ya- 
vapai, and Yuma Counties, Ariz.; Chesterfield and Goshen, Mass.; 
Gouverneur, Dekalb, and Pierrepont, N. Y.; and Chester County, Pa. 
In San Diego County, Calif., many transparent tourmaline crys- 
tals of green, blue, yellow, and red were obtained from pockets 
in pegmatite dikes. Kunzite is associated with the tourmaline.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
TURQUOISE
 CuO   3Al2Og. 2P205   9H20
 Physical properties:
 Color: Blue, blue green, green.
 Crystal form: Triclinic.
 Hardness: 6.
 Specific gravity: 2. 60-2. 83 (not constant due to porosity).
 Luster: Waxy.
 229
 Turquoise, the favorite gem stone of the American Indians, is 
an opaque mineral ranging in color from sky blue to bluish green 
to green. The preferred color, sky blue, is typical of specimens 
containing no iron; the greenish shades are due to the presence of 
iron. 
Turquoise usually occurs in compact, cryptocrystalline 
masses. It has a porous structure and therefore should be pro- 
tected from grease, moisture, and dirt. Sunlight and heat also 
have destructive effects on the stone. It is a fairly soft, yet tough, 
gem stone and is usually cut en cabochon and mounted in brooches, 
earrings, necklaces, and rings.
 Turquoise is a secondary mineral found in thin veins and small 
masses in highly altered rocks. It is associated with limonite, 
quartz, feldspar, sericite, and kaolin. In the United States most 
of the sky blue turquoise deposits have been mined out, but green- 
ish stones are still being obtained from localities in Arizona, 
New Mexico, and Colorado. At Turquoise Mountain and Ithaca 
Peak^ Mineral Park, Ariz. , turquoise is found in joints and fis- 
sures'of a highly kaolinized quartz porphyry. Some of the turquoise 
appears to have been deposited from hot solutions in the quartz 
porphyry and others seem to be replacements of feldspar and 
kaolin. In the Castle Dome mine, Gila County, Ariz. , turquoise 
is found in the leached zone of the porphyry copper deposit. In 
New Mexico the most notable locality is at Los Cerrillos, Santa 
Fe County, where turquoise is found in thin veins and small nug- 
gets in a yellowish-white tuff aceous rock with gold-bearing quartz. 
Other New Mexico localities are in the Burro Mountains near 
Silver City, Little Hachita Mountains, Grant County, and the 
Jarilla Mountains, Otero County. The largest turquoise deposits 
in the United States are in the King mine of the San Luis Valley, 
Colo. Other localities are Tombstone, Cochise County and Pierce, 
Maricopa County, Ariz. ; near Baker, San Bernardino County, and 
Chowchilla River, Fresno County, Calif. ;Lake and Mineral Coun- 
ties, Colo. ; Esmeralda County, Battle Mountain, Lander County 
and Tonopah, Nye County, Nev. ; Somerville, N. J. ; andCulberson 
County, Tex. In the United States the only known crystals of tur- 
quoise were found in Campbell County, Va.
 OTHER COPPER GEM MINERALS
 Azurite
 Chemical composition-- 
Physical properties: 
Color -----------
2CuCO3. Cu(OH)2 
Various shades of
 Malachite
 CuCO3. Cu(OH}2 
Bright green  
Cbrys ocolla
 CuSiO3' 2KP 
Green to greenish
 blue to blue.
 azure blue.
230
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 Azurite
 Physical properties  Cc
 >ntinued:
 ^ p-tTO-l-Ql  f(^T*TYY
 f^~\ OQTTQrTO
 TTo VC^TIOQQ
 Specific gravity- 
Two indistinct  
3.5-4.0 
3. 77-3. 89 
Vitreous, almost 
adamantine.
 Malachite
 Perfect basal -
3.5-4.0 
3. 90-4. 03 
Adamantine to 
vitreous, silky, 
dull.
 C h ry s oc o I la
 Cryptocrystalline. 
None, conchoidal 
fracture. 
2-4. 
2.00-2.24. 
Vitreous, shining, 
earthy.
 Azurite, the azure-blue copper carbonate, occurs in prismatic 
crystals and radiating spherical groups. It is similar in compo- 
sition to the green copper carbonate, malachite. Both stones are 
soft and opaque. Azurite has a lower specific gravity than mala- 
chite and is not as common. It is a secondary mineral found in 
oxidized parts of copper veins with malachite, cuprite, native 
copper, iron oxides, and various sulfides of copper and.iron. 
The country rock is commonly limestone. Localities in the United 
States where gem azurite has been found are at the Copper Queen 
mine in Bisbee, Courtland, Mineral Park, Morenci, and Superior, 
Ariz.; Las Vegas, Nev.; and the La Sal district, Utah.
 Malachite is bright green in color and commonly occurs inbot- 
ryoidal or stalactitic masses. It rarely is found in well-formed 
crystals, but it maybe pseudomorphous after azurite. Malachite has 
a perfectbasal cleavage. Its luster varies from adamantine to vit- 
reous in crystals, silkyin fibrous types, and dull in earthy varie- 
ties. The geologic occurrence and localities of malachite are the 
same as azurite. Both minerals are used for ornamental purposes.
 Chrysocolla, a hydrous copper silicate, ranges in color from 
green to greenish blue. It is amorphous and usually occurs in 
opaque, compact masses. Its chemical composition is variable. 
It is distinguished from turquoise by inferior hardness. It may 
have avitreous or earthy luster. ChrysocoUa also is a secondary 
mineral found in oxidized zones of copper veins. Common asso- 
ciates are azurite, malachite, and other copper minerals. It is
 found in the copper districts of Arizona and New Mexico.
 A list of journals on gems is given below:
 Pacific Mineralogist, 6731 Arbutus Ave., Huntington
 Park, Calif, (ceased). 
The Mineralogist, Couch Bldg., Portland, Oreg. (monthly).
 The Earth Science Digest. Revere, MaSS. (mOnthly). 
Gems and Gemmology, Gemmological Inst. America,
 Los Angeles (quarterly). 
The Gemmologist, National Assoc. of Goldsmiths Press,
 London (monthly). 
The Lapidary Journal, Lapidary Journal, inc., p. o.
 Box 1228, Hollywood 28, Calif, (quarterly).
 The Mineral Hobbyist, State Mineral Soc. of Texas, 
Austin, Tex. (ceased).
 Rocks and Minerals, Rocks and Minerals Assoc., Peeks- 
kill, N. Y. (6 times a year).
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 231
 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF DEPOSITS OF PRINCIPAL
 GEM STONES
 State and county
 Alabama:
 Marshall.-----.--.....-......-..-.
 TQ! 1 annncia
 Arizona:
 Gila .......................................................
 Greenlee
 Mohave    
Navajo   -.     
"Dl TY1 O
 TDinal
 *VQTrQT\Q 1
      - -
..  
Uma - ....... ....... .... ....... ..... .... ....... .......
 Arkansas: 
Garland  ..........................................
 Hot Spring         
Madison...........-.-.-.....-   ........
 T3i Iro
 California:
 Locality
 Rockford----    
Hissop   ..........  ............
 Guntersville    
Ganada           
.....   
Navajo reservation   
Buehl Park, Fort De- 
fiance. 
Petrified Forest
 Cochise County   
Copper Queen mine, 
Bisbee.
 Courtland  -. .....   .....   
Tombstone      
Castle Dome mine    
Globe-   ---   
Inspiration mine     
Graham County.    
Graham Mountain    
Morenci
 Maricopa County -    
Aquila .-.-.......  .    
Pierce.
 Aquarius Mountains,
 Owens. 
Black Mountains    
Ithaca Peak, and Aztec 
Mountain, Mineral Park.
 Holbrook--  ---------
Kelvin--------------
Saddle Mountain    
Yavapai County-    
Uma County      
TOCJCM oiH 1 1 o
 Magnet Cove .........  .  ..
 T^ol Q  no-rr
 "Do T'M'n
 Gem stone
 .  
.. 
......... ......
 ...  
.......
 . . -  
Gem beryl. 
Do.
 Quartz crystal.
 Pyrope. 
Do.
 Do.
 "DofyM "fi oH xxrt"M"\H TQC;T\OT»
 Tourmaline.
 Azurite.
 TS 1 T* /"11 1 /"I T C O 
Turquoise.
 Q(711T*l'fo
 Tourmaline.
 Turquoise.
 (** VlT*"\7QrM^T*3 QO
 Dn
 A rrQ'f'O
 Uvarovite.
 A ^ITPlto
 Agate, tourmaline. 
Chalcedony.
 OVi  ) » » TO("vr\7«Q co 
larite. 
Turquoise.
 cn^nc! Qii _
 Do.
 Chalcedony, opal.
 f*Vl Y¥X7Q.OT"\T'Q QO
 Chrysoprase, jasper, 
turquoise, azurite.
 Amethyst, 
wood. 
Tourmaline.
 petrified
 Turquoise , tourmaline.
 Tourmaline.
 Do.
 Quartz crystal.
 Smoky quartz, quartz 
crystal, sunstone, 
topazolite.
 To Qr^OT*
 Do.
 f^iiO T*t "7 I*"*"?* WQfal
 Agate thunder eggs.
 AT o yyi oHQ
232
 ?able Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 California  Continued 
Alameda  Continued
 A 1 T^I no
 Locality
 Newman mine, Liver- 
more. 
Hope Valley, Mogul,
 Gem stone
 Citrine. 
Rose quartz.
 Monitor districts.
 Shake Ridge, Volcano  
Butte.-.----^-       
r^Ql QTTOT*Q Q
 El Dorado.. -     
Inyo - --           
T EJ Iro
Mariposa»."-«»»»««-»»«-««-».-»-.
 Mont©r6y
 "KToTrci HQ
 T? T Trp T» o i rl p
 Butte County    
   -.
 Cherokee Flats, Yankee 
Hill, and Oroville. 
Feather River
 Garnet Hill  ...      
Green Mountain mine, 
Chile Gulch, Mokelu- 
mne Hill.
 Smith River      
El Dorado County-----
"D] Q /^OT*Tn 1 1 O
 Webber Hill--      ----- 
Taylor's Ranch, Chow
chilla River.
 "IT1 r» ci n c* Vi 1 oH^ T^'iiT'olrQ HTQ  
trict.
 Kern County      
Howard Springs.- --  
A /^f f~\Y\
 Orjnool -i4-^\
 Mariposa County. ----
T^ypTl r^Vl ^(^T^T^Q!
 Green Valley, American 
River. 
Gopher Hill  -------
Laura quartz, mine, 
Clio.
 Spanish Creek   -- --
Cohuila Mountain-------
r^ipQT* r^T»Poir
 San Bernardino County
Diamond.
 A TYl of VtWQf Y*^iQP miQ T*t <7
 smoky quartz, dia- 
mond. 
Black gold quartz.
 Gold quartz.
 Diamond. 
Smoky quartz.
 AnHyQ^iTO
 Quartz crystal. 
Jasper.
 Black gold quartz.
 Smoky quartz, dia
mond.
 lapis lazuli, opal.
 Amethyst.
 To QTlOY*
 Nephrite .
 TQ OT"VOT»
 Gold quartz.
 Gold quartz.
 Uvarovite. 
Diamond.
 Opal.
 Diamond.
 yl, 
kunzite , smoky 
quartz, quartz crys- 
tal, rose quartz, tour- 
maline .
 rose quartz. 
Jadeite, uvarovite.
 San Benito         
Opal, sapphire.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table C ontinued
 State and county
 California  Continued 
Sari Bernardino  Cont.
 San Diego   . ..    
Locality
 Brown Mountain...................
 TVToQT* molroT*
 Cottonwood Station-  
rioatVi TT'alloTr
 San Bernardino Moun- 
tains . 
Victor-......-...  ...........................
 Bloodstone. 
Lapis lazuli. 
Turquoise. 
Turquoise. 
Bloodstone. 
Agate.
 Turquoise. 
233
 Gem stone
 Aquamarine, essonite, 
kunzite, jasper, golden 
and green beryl, mor- 
ganite, 
rose quartz, 
quartz crystal, tour- 
maline, topaz, spes- 
sartite. 
Dos Cabezas Springs  
Mesa Grande district-... 
"Do! o Hi cfT*ir»f
 Good Hope mine------
Ramona    --       
Rincon    -      
Land's End Station-  
Santa Clara--- ---- 
OV»o c-f o
 CS OT'T'Q
 Siskiyou  
  --   -- 
Santa Barbara-   
Hart------         
Dunsmuir  
  --  - .
 Jenne Creek, Hornbrook- 
Cloverdale and Valley 
Ford. 
Trinity-------------
Tiilar-A
 Yuba  ----  ---  .
 Colorado: 
Alamosa------ ------
Boulder  --- -- - - 
OJ-ioffoo
 North fork of the Eel 
River . 
Trinity River      
Tulare County     
"Di"iT*t PTMril 1 P
 T^QttlpQna Ifp f^ypplf
 Tobias Mountain, Ex- 
eter, Yokohol. 
Venice Hill, Visalia  ----
TQ r* IfQ j \ Y\ T H 11 O
 Yuba County-     
King Mine, San Luis 
Valley.
 T^PP"pf>*Q 1 1
 Boulder County    
Calumet iron mine, Tur- 
ret.
 Essonite. 
Rose quartz, tourma- 
line. 
Golden beryl, rose 
quartz, kunzite, tour- 
maline. 
Grossularite. 
Aquamarine, rose 
quartz, tourmaline. 
Tourmaline . 
Jasper. 
Quartz crystal. 
Jasper. 
Do. 
Gold quartz. 
Garnet, opal. 
Sard. 
Jadeite.
 Jadeite, nephrite.
 Diamond. 
Nephrite . 
Diamond. 
Rose quartz. 
Chrysoprase. 
Pyrope . 
Rose quartz.
 Chrysoprase. 
Gold quartz. 
Uvarovite . 
Gold quartz.
 Turquoise.
 Amazonite . 
Chrysoberyl. 
Essonite, quartz crys- 
tal, 
sapphire, sage- 
nite.
234
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 Colorado  Continued 
Chaf fee  Continued
 fMoav f^T*pplr
 Conejos-   -- --  -  - 
r"1 ! 1 Ct OT*
 V\ "Dao/"i
 Garfield----- ----   
Gilpin            
Locality
 Calumet mine, Salida  - 
Chalk Creek, Buena Vista- 
Dorothy Hill, Ruby Moun- 
tain area, Nathrop.
 Mount Antero, Sawatch 
Range.
 Nathrop-   -   - 
Red Elephant Mountain, 
Lawson. 
Silver and Trail Creeks, 
Idaho Springs. 
King turquoise mine, 
Manassa.
 Devils Head ----------
Pine Creek Store near 
Sedalia. 
El Paso County-------
Austin Bluffs, Colorado 
Springs .
 Pvucfal TDo-rlr
 Manitou Springs     
St 
Peter's Dome
 Near Calumet-        
Canon City--             
...
 Chalk Mountain, Fre- 
mont Pass. 
Curio Hill, Wet Moun- 
tains . 
Garden Park near Canon 
City.
 "Do Y»lrHa1 o
 Royal Gorge--      
'"PovEi c r^T*oolr
 Garfield County     
Central City.---  -----
Italian Mountain, Crest- 
ed Buttes in the Sawatch 
Range. 
Mount Beckwith---  ---.
 Centennial Cone, Golden- 
Drew Hill, Golden-----
Turquois Chief mine, St.
 Kevin mining district,
 Leadville. 
Pennoyer amethyst 
mine, Red Feather 
Gem stone
 Ruby. 
Sapphire . 
Quartz crystal, al- 
mandite , spessar- 
tite, topaz. 
Aquamarine , quartz 
crystal, smoky 
quartz, topaz. 
Topaz. 
Amethyst.
 Do. 
Turquoise .
 Amazonite . 
Amazonite, 
smoky 
quartz, topaz. 
Quartz crystal, ama- 
zonite, smoky quartz. 
Petrified wood. 
Carnelian, jasper.
 Amethyst , tour maline. 
Amazonite, topaz. 
Smoky quartz. 
Amazonite, quartz 
crystal, smoky 
quartz, topaz. 
Sapphire . 
Almandite, amethyst, 
opal, rose quartz. 
Spessartite, topaz, 
smoky quartz. 
Agate.
 Jasper ized bones, ag- 
ate. 
Aquamarine . 
Aquamarine, tourma- 
line. 
Rose quartz, gem beryl. 
Chrysoprase. 
Labradorite. 
Lapis lazuli.
 Moonstone. 
Gem beryl, smoky 
quartz . 
Chrysoberyl. 
Turquoise .
 Lakes, Fort Collins.
 Amethyst.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State and county
 Colorado  Continued 
Larimer  Continued
 Locality
 Specimen Mountain, 
235
 Gem stone
 Agate, geodes, onyx, 
Rocky Mountain Na- 
tional Park.
 TVA^QJl
 ni Q H o OQ T» lr
 Opal Hill, Fruita    
Pinon mesa         ----
Amethyst mine, Bachelor 
Mountain, Creede. 
West Willow Creek, 
North Creede. 
Wolf Creek Pass, San 
Juan Mountains. 
Montrose     
   --    
Coiray---  -----------
TSavlr
 Oifb-in
 Rio Grande ......  ..-....  ............
 CJo miQ r*Ho
 Teller...:.-.............   ...................
 Connecticut: 
Fairfield  . - -- .... .....
Litchfield --------- - 
Middlesex  ----------
Near Uncompahgre  .........
 Mount Sneff els .........................
 Agate Plateau, Buffey........ 
Mount Antero summit-- 
Old Salt Works, Antero 
Junction. 
South Park, near Grand 
River. 
Tarryall Mountains ............
 Roaring Fork, near 
Clear Creek and Bear 
Creek. 
Del Norte
 Hall turquoise mine, 
Villagrove .
 f""1 Y»iy\r^1 Q C^~r*&O\T Q T»OQ
 Crystal Peak, F 1 o r i s - 
sant.
 Trumbull  
Haddam      
    .  
...--  ...............
 Portland-  ----------
New Haven            
Windham--         
Georgia: --
 Bulloch-  - .   .... .
 Chatham----- ---  
Clay          - 
Clayton------ -------
Fannin  ...... ...    
..............
 New Haven  .................. ............
 Southbury  ................................
 Willimantic            
Bulloch County     
Chatham County    
Clay County  ...........................
 Morrow Station  ..................
 Fannin Countv..........................
 opal, jasper.
 .
 Opalized wood. 
Do. 
Banded and moss agate, 
chalcedony. 
Amethyst.
 Amethyst, 
matrix. 
turquoise 
Agate, moonstone.
 Heliotrope. 
Andradite-topazolite . 
Agate. 
Smoky quartz. 
Chalcedony, blood- 
stone, moss agate. 
Almandite, heliotrope.
 Amazonite, smoky 
quartz, topaz. 
Rose quartz.
 Plume agate , chalce- 
dony, opal, quartz 
crystal. 
Turquoise.
 Do. 
Amethyst, quartz crys- 
tal, smoky quartz, 
geodes, sagenite, am- 
azonite, topaz, garnet, 
rutilated quartz.
 Kunzite . 
Tourmaline . 
Topaz . 
Aquamarine , golden 
beryl. 
Aquamarine, chryso- 
beryl, spessartite, 
tourmaline . 
Aquamarine, tourma- 
line. 
Andradite. 
Rose quartz. 
Topaz.
 Fire opal. 
Heliotrope . 
Diamond. 
Do. 
Malap.hit.e
236
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 Table Continued
 State and county
 Georgia  Continued 
Floyd-             
Franklin---       
Hall   .............................................. .
 Rabun----  
   ---  - 
Towns--....        .
 Union----.-- --   ----
Washington-..     , 
Idaho:
 AHa
 A HQ YT\ <z
 T^OQT* T Q Iro
 Blaine  ------   -----.
 Boise-  ...........-..-.....-  .............
 ("M OQ TMX7Q toT*
 (^llQtpT1
 T QtoVi
 Lemhi  . ................ .......................
 Nez Perce-  
  --   "
 Oneida---   -  --------
Owyhee.----  
Shoshone    
  --  -..
 .............. .................
 Washington  ...................................
 Indiana:
 Marion  ...................................   
Iowa: 
DCS l^IoinGs
 Story--  .        
Vdll DUiCil                   
Kansas: 
Trego ................... .................................
 Kentucky:
 Elliott       
Maine: 
..................................
 Androscoggin--        
Locality
 Gainesville  -- ---.---.
 "Ri i *"* TrVi o Q H
 Ledbettermine, Clayton 
and Highland.
 Old Garrett mine, Char- 
lie Creek. 
Hightower Bald - .................
 Washington County   -
Diamond Basin  ------
Rock Flat gold placer, 
Meadows . 
Paris Canyon, Humming 
Bird mine. 
Little Wood River    
Boise County---------
OQ^f Qy»TTn 1 1 ^
 Deadwood Gulch.....................
 Pierce, along Rhodes and 
Orofino Creeks.
 Latah County     
"Do TrfVioT* OT*^ A If
 .............
 Lewiston--  --  ---
T51 d /*»lr<?i. Ano Tnino
 Mullan, Hunter-------
Washington County  -
T ir»lf (^T'oolr
 .....
 Indianapolis---- -  -
Des Moines County............... 
Keokuk -   ---   
Farmington-  
  - -- 
Elliott County----.-----
Sandy Hook, Ison Creek
/^QVinri T^ny1]/" f^T'OOV1
 Auburn 
Gem stone
 Quartz^crystal. 
Do. 
Diamond. 
Amethyst. 
Ruby, sapphire. 
Amethyst, aquama - 
rine, golden beryl, 
quartz crystal. 
Amethyst.
 Do. 
Fire opal.
 Diamond. 
Sapphire .
 Jasper.
 Azurite . 
Topaz. 
Aquamarine. 
Pyrope, spessartite. 
Common opal. 
Sapphire .
 Azurite . 
Common opal. 
Do. 
Almandite, aquama- 
rine. 
Azurite . 
Common;opal, pre- 
cious opal. 
Azurite . 
Gem corundum, sap- 
phire.
 Diamond. 
Amethyst . 
Bronze -colored sap- 
phire. 
Diamond.
 Quartz crystal. 
Geodes. 
Chalcedony. 
Geodes.
 Jasper. 
Diamond.
 Pyrope .
 Diamond.
 Golden beryl, smoky ----
  ---      
quartz, tourmaline.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State and county
 Maine   Continued 
Androscoggin  Continued
 Locality
 Minot  ................ ............... ...........
 Mount Apatite, Little- 
Smoky quartz. 
237
 Gem stone
 Apatite, smoky quartz, 
field Farm.
 Poland    
Cumberland .......................... .......
 TTo 7"» f» r\ r* \r
 TCptlflpl^PP
 Oxford.....----     
Sagadahoc    
Maryland: 
 -  -- 
Baltimore......................................
 Carroll  .      
..........
 Diamond Island, Port- 
land Harbor. 
Mount Desert .......... ....... .........
 Winslow         
Oxford County      
Albany  --   -   
Andover              
Bethel         
Buckfield   ............ 
French Mountain    
Grafton  --»-     
Lovell  -   -   
Mount Mica, Paris - 
Mount Pleasant..    
Peru, Speckled Mountain  
Ragged Jack Mountain   
Rumford Falls ..    .
 Stoneham ....    .  ...........
 Stow.......-.....-..      
Phippsbur g   
Topsham -..-».      
Arundel gneiss quarry, 
Gunpowder River. 
Bare Hills .  .   ... .
 Gr.anite         
Between Middleburg and 
Big Pipe Creek. 
Kensington mica mine, 
tourmaline, aquama- 
   ---  -
......
 .
 ..... .
   ...
 ..  .
 .... ....... ....... .......
 ......     
rine, golden beryl. 
Golden beryl, tourma- 
line. 
Quartz crystal.
 Amazonite . 
Aquamarine. 
Essonite. 
Golden beryl, rose 
quartz crystals, smoky 
quartz, tourmaline. 
Essonite, hiddenite, 
kunzite . 
Aquamarine . 
Milky quartz crystals, 
aquamarine . 
Do. 
Aquamarine. 
Do. 
Aquamarine, tourma- 
line, morganite. 
Tourmaline . 
Aquamarine . 
Amazonite, rose quartz 
crystals, tourmalin- 
ated quartz, sagenite, 
aquamarine, tourma- 
line, morganite. 
Smoky quartz, amethyst 
Rose quartz crystals, 
aquamarine, tourma- 
line. 
Aquamarine, rose quartz . 
Golden beryl. 
Chrysoberyl. 
Tourmaline . 
Aquamarine, 
golden 
beryl, smoky quartz, 
topaz. 
Amethyst. 
Essonite, aquamarine, 
golden beryl. 
Aquamarine, tourma- 
line, topaz.
 Aquamarine.
 Moss agate. 
Amethyst. 
Cnrysocolla.
 Golden beryl.
 Burnt Mills.
238
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 Massachusetts:
 Hampshire        
Locality
 Rockport ......................................
 Rowley ................................
 Northfield ..._........_............. ... 
Blandford....................................
 Chester  .....................................
 Chesterfield ..........................
 Royalston  
  -  -   
Gem stone
 Amazonite . 
Jasper. 
Aquamarine, garnet, 
golden beryl. 
Aquamarine, golden 
beryl. 
Jasper. 
Emerald, tourmaline. 
Aquamarine, emerald, 
smoky quartz, tour- 
maline. 
Aquamarine, golden 
beryl. 
Jasper. 
Aquamarine . 
Aquamarine, golden 
beryl.
 Michigan:
 ("*Q CO
 Kent .-----------      
Minnesota: 
Morrison --------------
Missouri:
 Dent - --- --- --  
Iron Mountain  
TDVlpl 1-lQ ....... ___ .. __ .... ___
 Montana:
 1~*1 Q £1 T* T A H /TO
 frl 55 f"*1 OT»
 Granite          
Judith Basin--    
Lake Superior region   
Buchanan     -  --- 
Keweenaw Peninsula, a, 
Thunder Bay. 
Allouez mine    ------
Royalton             
Crawford County   - 
  -   
Dent County ----------- 
Iron Mountain County-  
Phelps County    
Cable mine .................................
 Dry Cottonwood Creek-- 
Nelson Hill, near Black- 
foot. 
Philipsburg ..............................
 Rock Creek ...............................
 Homestake mining dis- 
trict, Butte.
 Yogo ................................................
 J
 Canyon Ferry, Missouri
 Eldorado Bar  ---  - 
Three Mile Gulch-  
JrUlC wi CCJ\
 East Ridge Foothills  - 
Browns Gulch      
Agate . 
Do. 
Diamond. 
Do. 
Rose quartz. 
Amethyst.
 Chrysocolla. 
Staurolite.
 Azurite . 
Do. 
Smoky quartz. 
Azurite.
 Sapphire . 
Moss agate.
 Chrysocolla. 
Sapphire . 
Diamond.
 Chrysocolla.
 Sapphire .
 Do.
 Amethyst, smoky
 quartz. 
Sapphire, ruby.
 Sapphire .
 Do.
 Do.
 Smoky quartz,
 Garnet, onyx.
 Sapphire. 
Chrysocolla. 
Silver Bow  -    .........
 Sapphire .
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State and county
 Nebraska: 
Keith, Scotts Bluff, and 
Sioux. 
Nevada: 
Churchill  - - - - 
riark.....
 Elko ....................................................
 Esmeralda  .................................
 "p1 1 1 T* Q 1^5)
 Humboldt-------------
NVQ
 Washoe ---------------
White Pine ....................................
 New Hampshire: 
Belknap    
Par- foil
 -    
Coos----------------
Locality
 Keith, Scotts Bluff, and 
Sioux Counties.
 Sunnyside district-----
Black Canyon, Colorado 
River. 
Bullion district ......................
 Crescent......................................
 Carlin .........................................
 Mountain City---------
T1! ic:r*QY*r^"r*3
 Blair Junction--------
P*nal T^alo
 Cuprite district   --    
. 
Gold Mountain ---------
Millers -------------
Palmetto Canyon    
Silver Peak Moun- 
tains . 
Ruby Hill and Eureka 
districts. 
Coyote Springs .......................
 Virgin Valley ........... ................
 Battle Mountain, 53 miles 
east of Winnemucca. 
Beatty    - .................. ................
 Belmont  ...................................
 Cactus Mountain, But- 
ler.
 "Dcjhnto TV/Tocja
 Tonapah ------ ..........................
 Reno------------ -  - 
Nightingale district, 
near Lane City.
 Gilmanton------ --  - ----
Chatham, South Bald 
Face Mountain.
 Mount Kearsarge-  ------ 
Hinsdale .....................................
 K00H0
 Sullivan, Nims mica 
mine.
 Walpole------ ..........................
 Westmoreland  ------
Winchester  ---------
Berlin         
Diamond Ledges -- -
239
 Gem stone
 Moss agate.
 Malachite. 
Almandite.
 Chrysocolla,malachite. 
Turquoise. 
Azur ite . 
Gold quartz, turquoise. 
Rose quartz. 
Azurite . 
Citrine, rose quartz. 
Turquoise. 
Do. 
Malachite . 
Citrine. 
Turquoise. 
Citrine. 
Rose quartz.
 Azurite .
 Agate. 
Agate, precious opal. 
Opal. 
Turquoise.
 Agate nodules. 
Petrified wood. 
Turquoise.
 Agate . 
Do. 
Black jade, turquoise. 
Turquoise. 
Almandite.
 Jasper . 
Beryl, topaz.
 Amethyst, rose quartz. 
Indicolite. 
Rose quartz. 
Aquamarine , golden 
beryl. 
Amethyst. 
Indicolite . 
Amethyst. 
Indicolite . 
Amethyst . 
Smoky quartz. 
Jasper. 
Topaz.
240
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 New Hampshire  Continued 
Coos   Continued
 Grafton ................................................
 Hillsboro----------.-..--..
 T\/Tp T* T* T in d f* \r
 Strafford --------------
Sullivan - -  --- ---
New Jersey:
 f^Qno A/Tow
 l^oopv
 Hudson  .............................................
 "Do o o Q i /"»
 New Mexico:
 Grant -  -      
Mora .......-.----     
rcio ArriDd                
............ 
San Juan ........... ......... ...................
 Locality '
 White Mountains, Mount 
Washington.
 Grafton.  ................. ...................
 Or ange ......        
.........
 Warren-  ----------
A TYl)'lOT>C:t
 Danbury, P. K. Filbert 
Farm.
 Oonfoy Ql Y»OT*T*r\T»H
 Sullivan County  .  ..
 Acworth, Beryl Moun- 
tain.
 Springfield  .............................
 Oor^p TV/To-'CT
 Belleville and Bloom- 
field. 
Hoboken  ..................................
 Long Branch ... .....-..........
 Bound Brook ---------
Lyons Station-----'- 
Franklin Furnace------
Organ, Torpedo mine-- 
Black Range, Great Re- 
public .mine . 
Burro Mountains, Por- 
terfield mines.
 Fort Bayard-   ---
Little Hachita Mountains
Silver City  ....... .....      
White Signal district  
Anphn 
J
 ................
 Coyote  -  - - 
t/ 
To Y»i1 1 o 
................
 Bromide-     --
Navajo and Zuni Reser- 
vations .
 Gem stone
 Rose quartz.
 Andradite, azurite. 
Almandite, aquama- 
rine, golden beryl, 
topaz, smoky quartz. 
Almandite, jasper, 
quartz crystal, ru- 
tilated quartz. 
Aquamarine. 
Essonite . 
Do. 
Jasper. 
Almandite, golden 
beryl. 
Aquamarine, golden 
beryl. 
Golden beryl. 
Almandite, aquama- 
rine, rose quartz, 
golden beryl. 
Spessartite.
 Quartz crystal, jasper. 
Malachite.  
Agate, amethyst, black 
quartz. 
Quartz crystal. 
Amethyst. 
Agate . 
Amethyst geodes. 
Turquoise. 
Amethyst;
 Chrysocolla. 
Amethyst.
 Chrysocolla, tur- 
quoise. 
Opal. 
Turquoise.
 Fire opal.
 Essonite.
 Turquoise. 
Jasper.
 Turquoise. 
Agate . 
Azurite, malachite.
 Malachite. .
 Chrysocolla, tur- 
quoise.
 Azurite, 
malachite,
 amazonite. 
Pyrope .
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State and county
 New Mexico  Continued 
San Miguel ....................................
 Locality
 Tecolote.. ....
 241
 Gem stone
 Azurite, malachite. 
Sandoval
 Santa Fe .........................................
 Socorro  ------------
Tanc;.
 "\7js 1 onfi Q
 New York: 
Albany  -"----    - 
PQCOY
 TTp y» If -i yyi o f*
 Ontario--»---------»---
r^T*QTirro
 Richmond .... ..................................
 CJf 
T QTirpOYlC^O
 AA/P c: t f* Vi p c f o T
 North Carolina:
 A 1 o VQ ~n H o T*
 Cochiti district ......................
 Nacimiento.................................
 Santa Fe County ....................
 Los Cerillos .............................
 Caballos .................................
 Oscura Mountains------
Taos County ---------
Copperton, Zuni Moun- 
tains .
 Albany County .........................
 Essex County .......................... 
Crown Point----  -----
Herkimer County -----
Diamond Hill, Salisbury- 
Little Falls .    
Middleville  ---------
Newport----- -- ---"
 T71 c Qov"
 Manhattan borough-----
Blooming Grove, along 
Hudson River. 
Toddsville  
   -   
Tilly Foster mine, 
Brewster.. 
Staten Island ............................
 Greenfield..   .................
 PloValT-i
 T\/TQ CQOTIQ
 Gore Mountain, North 
Creek.
 T 
o Iro (*"io i^Y1 rrQ
 Bedford Village  ...............
 Chappaqua  -  -  ............
 Kinkel and Hobby quar- 
ries, North Castle.
 Alexander County-----
Emerald-hiddenite mine- 
Hiddenite  -    .-...
 Stony Point----------
Opal. 
Chrysocolla,malachite , 
azurite . 
Sapphire. 
Turquoise. 
Malachite . 
Chrysocolla. 
Pyrope . 
Malachite..
 Heliotrope. 
Almandite . 
Sunstone . 
Quartz crystal, smoky 
quartz. . 
Quartz crystal. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Labradorite . 
Aquamarine . 
Smoky quartz. 
Heliotrope, jasper.
 Sapphire . 
Grossularite, uvaro- 
vite . 
Prase . 
Chrysoberyl. 
Chrysoprase, tourma- 
line . 
Tourmaline . 
Diamond. 
Tourmaline. 
Almandite .
 Quartz crystal, smoky 
quartz. 
Asteriated quartz, gol- 
den beryl, rose quartz. 
Sunstone . 
Golden beryl, rose 
quartz .
 Pyrope . 
Aquamarine. 
Emerald. 
Rutilated quartz, aqua- 
marine . 
Amethyst, citrine, em- 
erald, golden beryl, 
hiddenite, quartz crys- 
tal, tourmalinated 
quartz, smoky quartz.
242
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 North Carolina  Continued 
Alexander  Continued
 AcVif^ 
Avery      
.. 
. 
... _ . ___
   - -   
Buncombe-------    
Cabarrus  ................................. ......
 Caldwell-   
Clay          
Davidson  -   -----       
"C1 y»OV»l/'l 1 T-l
 Gaston------ -----   
   - ---  ....... ..
 Granville.........-..........   ......... ....
 T-rpripll
 «JcU~.&.oUIr
 Locality
 Phoenix Mountain, Long 
Shoals Creek, Chestnut 
Hill Township.
 Linville---        
AcVlOT7"i11 O
 Asheville, Morgan Hill-- 
Burke County--------
BrindletownCreek Ford  
Burkemont, South Moun- 
tains . 
Morganton, Laurel 
Creek. 
South Mountains, Joel 
Walker prospect. 
Concord, Harrisburg   
Caldwell County------
Catawba County     
Cullakeenee mine, Buck 
Creek. 
Elf on Shooting Creek  
(~*d CQ T»
 ICings Mountain -------- 
Shelby, Hollybush pros- 
pect.
 .... .... .
 Tavrv
 Portis gold mine-  - -- 
Gaston County      
Granville County    
Jackson County-  - 
Grimshawe mine, Mont- 
vale. 
Mason Branch valley, 
near Franklin. 
R. E. Brown prospect   
Sapphire and White Wa- 
Gem stone
 Citrine, smoky 
quartz . 
Rose quartz. 
Quartz crystal.
 Almandite . 
Chalcedony. 
Aquamarine. 
Chrysoprase. 
Citrine, 
almandite, 
quartz crystal, ru- 
tilated quartz, smoky 
quartz. 
Diamond. 
Gem beryl.
 Pyrope. 
Aquamarine.
 Chalcedony, opal. 
Almandite, aquama- 
rine . 
Almandite , 
c itr ine , 
emerald, rutilated 
quartz, quartz crys- 
tal, rose quartz, 
smoky quartz. 
Emerald, ruby ma- 
trix. 
Hyalite opal, ruby 
matrix, sapphire. 
Rutilated quartz. 
Diamond. 
Emerald.
 Do. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Diamond. 
Aquamarine. 
Jasper. 
Amethyst. 
Green tourmaline. 
Amethyst, opal, rose 
quartz, rutilated 
quartz. 
Almandite, rutilated 
quartz. 
Gem corundum, aqua- 
marine. 
Rhodolite.
 Aquamarine. 
ter mine.
 Sapphire .
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State and county
 North Carolina  Continued 
Lincoln.  .      
McDowell ---------- .
 Macon -.        .
 Madison --       
Mecklenburg-      
Mitchell -   -----    
.  
Locality
 .
Cottage Home     
Line olnton-- --------
McDowell County   
Dysortville, headwaters 
of Muddy Creek. 
Corundum Hill mine, 
Cullajasa. 
Ellijay mine, E Hi jay 
Creek. 
Franklin area, Co wee 
Valley. 
Littlefield mine, Tes- 
sentee Creek.
 Madison County-    
T?opHc; |^v»oolf
 Caldwell  ........ . .... ....
 Todd ' s Branch
 Mitchell County ----- --   
Hawk mine------ ------
Crabtree Mountain, Em- 
erald Matrix mine. 
Medlock Mountain, Ba- 
kersville.
 SriTiiPP PinP
 Emerald.
 Suns tone.
 243
 Gem stone
 Diamond. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Do. 
Pyrope. 
Diamond.
 Hyalite opal, emerald, 
sapphire. 
Gem corundum.
 Ruby, rhodolite.
 Amethyst, aquamarine, 
golden beryl. 
Chrysoprase. 
Opal. 
Aquamarine, jasper. 
Chalcedony. 
Diamond. 
Almandite . 
Aquamarine, emerald, 
essonite, quartz crys- 
tal, oligoclase. 
Moonstone. 
Emerald, corundum, 
garnet, golden beryl, 
zircon, moonstone, 
sunstone, kunzite. 
Moore          
Orange        
"DoT*Q/^^
 Randolph       
Rowan--   --»»-»-  .
 Stokes....... .... ......... 
 ..   .. .
 Surry   ....... .. ........ ........ ...........
 Wake .-.         
"V"jinr*AT7
 Ohio:
 Oklahoma: 
McCurtain      
Oregon:
 "Do l/-rty»
 .  
...
 Aquamarine, emerald. 
Jasper. 
Orange County     
Person County .    
....... ....
 ......
 Randolph County  ----
Gold Hill       
J. B. Twitty gold placer 
mine. 
Dan River       
Elkin and White Plains- 
Wake County      
Raleigh..      . 
Yancey County    
Burnsville, Ray mica 
mine.
 Milford -------»-----
m OT/PT* r^7»polr
 Wichita Mountains   
Chalcedony. 
Jasper. 
Rutilated quartz. 
Sunstone . 
Diamond.
 Rose quartz. 
Quartz crystal. 
Jasper. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Almandite. 
Amazonite, aquama- 
rine.
 Diamond.
 Quartz crystal. 
Rutilated quartz.
 Malachite, precious o- 
pal, rhodolite, almandite.
244
 Table   Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 Oregon  Continued
 OX UUiv     
OLLI i y
 Harney---   -    
Josephine--------------
Wallowa            
Pennsylvania:
 T3p ylrc
 "Rnp lr^
 Carbon-----------..-.-.--
f"1 Vi o c: i" o T*
 Locality
 Nehalem River ---.----
JDCI1U dl CcL .
 Cedar Springs Moun- 
tain.
 Nickel Mountain   
Harney County -------- 
Waldo and Galice dis- 
tricts.
 Newport Beach      
Toledo        
Salmon River and Cedar 
Creek, near Toledo.
 Vcj r* Vto f c
 Opal Butte-  -  ---  
Joseph, on Lower Inma- 
ha River.
 Warm Springs Indian 
Reservation.
 Fritz Island, near Read- 
ing.
 "Ppa cfpT»\7il 1 p.. _._. ,. .
 Hauto  ......... . .... .  ......
 Chester County     
East Bradford Town- 
ship.
 Northrup  ..........   .......  
Nottingham Township   
Phoenixville              
Pocopson Township   
Sadsbury Township -   
Unionville             --
 Avondale ,Leiper. quarry- 
Brandywine Summit- 
Middletown   - -- - 
Lancaster County-  - 
Gem stone
 Heliotrope, iris agate. 
Carnelian. 
Azurite, chrysocolla. 
Jasper . 
Opal. 
Diamond. 
Agate nodules. 
Azurite, malachite.
 Chrysoprase . 
Sapphire . 
Azurite, chrysocolla, 
malachite . 
Heliotrope. 
Agate . 
Carnelian.
 Sagenite . 
Opal. 
Prase .
 Iris agate, jasper. 
Heliotrope. 
Agate .
 Azurite, malachite, 
jasper. 
Sunstone . 
Quartz crystal. 
Jasper. 
Almandite, chryso- 
prase, jasper, moon- 
stone, tourmaline. 
Gem beryl. 
Amethyst.
 Malachite . 
Gem beryl. 
Sunstone . 
Azurite-. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Gem beryl. 
Jasper, moonstone. 
Almandite, aquama- 
rine, essonite, green 
beryl . 
Copper minerals. 
Rutilated quartz. 
Beryl, garnet. 
Amazonite, amethyst,
 sunstone,
 Amazonite . 
Amethyst. 
Jasper, rutilated 
quartz, uvarovite.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table - C ontinue d
 State and county
 Pennsylvania  Continued 
Lancaster  Continued
 Locality
 Wood's Chromite mine- 
Cornwall ..  -  --
Uvarovite. 
245
 Gem stone
 Azurite, malachite. 
Lehigh ..............................................
 Perrv
 Philadelphia ............. ...................
 Rhode Island: 
Providence       
South Carolina:
 Ancierson 
South Dakota: 
 "
 Custer, Pennington   
Minnehaha ....................................
 Pennington........  .....................
 Tennessee: 
Hamblen .............. ....... ........... . .
 Monroe ............................ ................
 Pnllr
 Roane ...............................................
 Texas:
 Lehigh County  ------
Bethlehem  ......................... ..
 Audubon .......................................
 "DoY*k"i fMYion Tn i no
 "DVll 1 Q/^ol T"\Vll Q CJ T*OQ
 Sumneyto wn ---------
Stroudsburg         
Philadelphia County   
Falls of Schuylkill    
"Fo i T*TYI Anr"it 'DoT*!/'
 Shawmont -   -  
Calumet Hill quarry, 
Cumberland area. 
Diamond Hill, Cumber- 
land Hill.
 Anderson, J. N. S. Mc- 
Conhell property. 
Bowen River -    
Black Hills district-  
Elephant Gulch .......................
 Harney Peak ............................
 Scott Rose quartz mine, 
Custer . 
Sioux Falls ................................
 Russell ville  ..........................
 Monroe County    
Koko Creek, Tellico 
River . 
Ducktown  
   --   
Clinch River, near Union 
Crossroads.
 T nHyoll Plat (~*raalr
 San Antonio, Reese 
River.
 A/To T*f o _ A 1 1^1 no
 Byrd Ranch, Alpine---
HcUcy x~^t;cli\. ""  "*
 Andradite, malachite. 
Jasper, prase. 
Azurite, smoky quartz. 
Azurite, malachite. 
Aquamarine . 
Azurite . 
Quartz crystal. 
Malachite . 
Smoky quartz, spessar- 
tite. 
Amethyst. 
Beryl, spessartite. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do.
 Jasper, rutilated 
quartz. 
Agate, milky quartz, 
quartz crystal.
 Amethyst. 
Aquamarine , 
green 
beryl, amethyst. 
Emerald, sapphire. 
Diamond.
 Azurite, aquamarine, 
golden beryl, hidden- 
ite, petrified wood, 
rose quartz. 
Pyrope, almandite. 
Rose quartz. 
Do.
 Jasper . 
Geodes.
 Quartz crystal. 
Malachite . 
Diamond.
 Azurite, malachite. 
Diamond.
 Do. 
Prase.
 Agate . 
.. 
Labradorite. 
Fire opal. 
Amethyst.
246
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 Texas  Continued
 Locality
 Gem stone
 Turquoise. 
"C1 ! 
TDacri
 Fayette ...............................................
 Hidalgo         
Llano           
"Do T»b-p-y»
 San Patricio .  .    .
 Walkpr
 Webb - ----  -------
Utah:
 "RaQTTQT*
 Box Elder          
OQ r* Vio
 Davis--           
Grand---        
Iron -                 
Juab               
Millard---------       
Piute            
Salt Lake -       
San Juan.--       
Tnnalo
 lUUclc              
Uintah -         
............      -  
        .
 Amethyst. 
Fayette County       
Sullivan City            
Grit  - -    - 
5-\llwpY* Opak" 
San Patricio County- 
Huntsville -------------
Zapata County- -   
Beaver County-    
Copper Gulch, Star and 
Frisco districts.
 Milford . -      
Copper Mountain mine, 
Lucin district. 
Newfoundland     
Promontory Point    
Silver Island       
T Q ID! at-a
 Castle Valley district  
San Rafael Swell      
Summerville district  
Grand County      
Gold Springs       
Thomas Mountains
 Tintic--     
. --  
Copper Mountain mine- 
T^PPT (^T'Oolr
 Big and Little Cotton- 
wood. 
Old Jordan mine, Bing- 
ham. 
Navajo Reservation  
T o Qol r^icfyi^*^
 Ball mine, Sevier Can- 
yon.
 Clifton district------
Ibapah Mountain -  - 
Simpson Springs    
AmericanFork Canyon 
Quartz crystal. 
. __     
_ ...
 Jasper. 
Agate, amethyst, opaJ, 
rose quartz, topaz. 
Topaz. 
Amazon! te, topaz. 
Topaz. 
Prase . 
Agate. 
Diamond. 
Agate, jasper. 
Do.
 Azurite, malachite. 
Garnet.
 Chrysocolla. 
Opal. 
Chrysocolla.
 Malachite. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Azurite, malachite. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Agate. 
Azurite, malachite. 
Azurite . 
Agate . 
Garnet. 
Garnet, topaz. 
Azurite, Chrysocolla,
 malachite. 
Labradorite. 
Azurite , malachite . 
Garnet. 
Malachite . 
Azurite, garnet, mal- 
achite . 
Opal.
 Pyrope, spessartite. 
Azurite, malachite. 
Do.
 Azurite, garnet, mal- 
achite . 
 Aquamarine, 
Morganite. 
Azurite, malachite. 
Utah                 
Garnet.
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table C ontinued
 State and county
 Utah  Continued 
Washington...................................
 Weber ..............................................
 Locality
 Dixie and Silver Reef........
 Ogden Boilermaker mine
 Azurite. 
Garnet, malachite. 
247
 Gem stone
 Azurite, malachite. 
Do. 
Garnet.
 Vermont: 
Orange.......... ......... ...................- 
Washington ..................................
 Windsor ..........................................
 Virginia:
 A yv°i ol 1 3
 Campbell........................................
 Charlotte......................................
 Chesterfield................................
 Fairfax...........................................
 Hanover.........................................
 Henry..............................................
 Louisa.............................................
 Madison.........................................
 Mecklenburg...............................
 .Nelson............................ .................
 Page .            
..
 Patrick.         .
 Rockbridge   
 .-    
Rockingham---  ----- --
Warren ............................................
 Washington:
 Phplan
 PI ark
 ' 
Ferry  --------------
To'f"foY*C!('"i7'i 
King .. ..    
i
 .....................
 Lincoln ---------------
Snohomish ------------
Walla Walla .................................
 Copper mines at Corinth, 
Copper fie Id, South 
Str afford. 
Waterbury   ..........  ......
 South Royalton  -   - ............
 Amelia Court House  
Amherst County . ......
 Lowesville ................................
 Fancy Hill.................................
 Campbell County .................
 Brookneal ..................................
 Charlotte Court House..... 
Manchester
 Fairfax ..... . .... . .......................
 Hewlett .
 Henry County. .................... .
 Trevilians 
......
 Fishers Gap.............................
 Pontiac mine .........................
 Nelson County ........................
 Patrick County ......................
 TT*I QVi (~*v*&&\r
 High Knob, Elkton  - 
Bentonville ................... .............
 Front Royal ..............................
 Bell Mountain mine - 
Republic mining district 
"Diiofl AT* Oyoolr
 Denny Mountain-------
Newport -- -   -----
Old Siegmund Ranch-  
Sedro Woolley ..    
Monte Cristo district- 
Whelan locality near 
Pullman. 
Moses locality, Clar kston
Malachite .
 Rutilated quartz. 
Quartz crystal.
 Amazonite, beryl, ame- 
thyst, rutilated quartz, 
spessartite, moon- 
stone, sunstone, topaz, 
tourmaline . 
Rutilated quartz. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Turquoise crystals. 
Amethyst. 
Do. 
Diamond. 
Gem quartz. 
Moonstone, sunstone. 
Staurolite. 
Amethyst. 
Azurite. 
Do. 
Amethyst. 
Azurite . 
Staurolite . 
Amethyst. 
Beryl. 
Azurite . 
Do. 
Azurite, chrysocolla.
 Quartz crystal. 
Gem quartz. 
Gold. 
Gem quartz. 
Do. 
Do.. 
Precious opal. 
Amethyst. 
Amethystine quartz. 
Nephrite . 
Amethyst. 
Malachite. 
Essonite. 
Opal. 
Precious opal.
 Do.
248
 Table Continued
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 State and county
 West Virginia:
 Wisconsin:
 7~"iQ 'HO
 PsrcG
 Washington.--------"---...
 "\I 7o 1 1 \r& O Vl Q
 Wood ..- -  -.--      
Wyoming: 
Albany...........................................
 «/
 Carbon....................  .........................
 Crook.......   ................. .................
 Fremont .... ........ ........ ........... .............
 Goshen    ....... 
  . .....  ,..
 Johnson .......  .   .-  --
Laramie-  --  -   -
Natrona'---  ---------
TDQT»1/
"Dlofto
 ^\TX7Aoi"TI?Q tOT*
 Locality
 Saukville .-...-...  ........  .......
 Kohlsville   - .........  .......--..
 Eagle .........:.  ........ .    .
 Grand Rapids
 Holmes, Grand Encamp- 
ment district.
 Lander . ....   ....... ...... 
Long Creek ...............................
 Sage Hen Creek    
Bighorn Mountains-  
^1 Q rra TTo n (~* T» o o \f
 Kirwin   -.    -.-.-.
 Wilde and Deercorn 
mine, Guernsey. 
Eden Valley ........     
Yellowstone National 
Park.
 Gem stone
 Diamond.
 Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Rose quartz.
 Azurite, 
malachite.
 Moss agate, malachite. 
Azurite. 
Nephrite . 
Moss agate. 
Ruby. 
Moss agate. 
Azurite, garnet, chry- 
socolla, malachite. 
Azurite. 
Heliotrope . 
Moss agate. 
Malachite . 
Moss agate.
 Petrified wood. 
Amethyst, agate, pet- 
rified wood.
 OTHER GEM STONES IN THE UNITED STATES
 State
 Massachusetts      
County
 AMBER 
[Fossil resin]
 New Jersey ............. ..................:............ Camden...... ...... .......... ...................
 Salem.... .........................................
 Mercer... ..  ...   ....
 ......do.......-  ...... .........................
 AXINITE 
Locality
 Gay Head, Martha's
 Vineyard. 
Nantucket.
 Camden.
 Harrisonville.
 Trenton.
 [Al, Ca, Fe, Mn hydrous borosilicate; honey yellow]
 California
 NPW Jpf^pv
 Pennsylvania ....,  ........ ........  .
 San Diego ......  ....   ...
 CSiOCQ-y
 Northampton ............... .... ..
 Bonsall.
 Bath.
 Franklin Furnace .
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State'
 California.
 County
 BENITOITE 
[Ba, Ti silicate; blue]
 San Benito-..
 BOWENITE 
249
 Locality
 Headwaters of the San 
Benito River.______
 g;unusually translucent, apple-green or greenish-white serpentine]
 Rhode Island.............:.......................... Providence..
 CALIFORNITE .
 Smithfield.
 [Basic Ca, Al silicate; olive green to grass green, brown idocrase. Called 
vesuvianite in older textbooks]
 California......................................:....... Riverside.................................... Crestmore.
 Siskiyo'u... . ...  ........... Indian Creek.
 Tulare........................................... Exeter.
 Plumas......................................... Clio.
 Butte..........................................:... County.
 Fresno.......................................... 
Do.
 Maine....................................................... Cumberland.............................. Raymond.
 Sagadahoc................................... Phippsburg.
 York.......................................... Sanford and Cornish.
 AndroSeoggin.......................... Robinson Mountain,
 Lewiston. 
New Hampshire................................ Grafton......................................... Warren.
 New York.............................................. Essex........................................... Olmstedville._______
 CATLINITE 
[ Compact red clay mineral]
 Arizona................................................... Yavapai......................................... Jerome.
 ^Minnesota.............................................. Pipestone .................................. County.___________
 CHIASTOLITE 
[ Al2Si05 variety of andalusite with cross in transverse section]
 California.............................................. Madera......................................... Daulton.
 Mariposa.... ............................. Moores Hill.
 Riverside. .............................. Coahuila.
 Massachusetts. ............................. Worcester..................-.-:..-.... George Hill, Lancas
________________________________ ter, Sterling._____
 CHLORASTROLITE 
____[Translucent to opaque green variety of prehnite or thomsonite]___
 Michigan............................................................................................................ Isle Royal and Green
 Stone Island in Lake 
Superior. 
Keeweenaw................................ Mandan and Porcupine
 Mountain.
 Minnesota ....................................... Cook............................................... Grand Marais.
 DANBURITE
 ,; wine yellow]
 Connecticut........................................... Fairf ield..................................... Danbury.
 New York ............................................. st. Lawrence--------- Russell.
250
 Table C ontinued
 State
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 County
 ELAEOLITE 
Locality
 [NaAlSiO4; flesh, cinnamon, yellow brown, related to nephelite]
 Arkansas.
 Garland........................................ [Magnet Cove.
 HYACINTH (GEM ZIRCON) 
ZrSiO4; orange, reddish, brownish]
 Colorado.................................................... El Paso and Jellee...............Pikes Peak region.
 Maine.......................................................... Kennebec..................................... Litchf ield.
 Massachusetts...................................... Hampshire-....-....--..-..-.... Chesterfield.
 Texas.......................................................... Llano.............................................: County.________
 PERIDOT 
[ Mg, Fe silicate; dark yellow green]___________
 Arizona...................................................... Gila..._............................................ Talklai,
 Apache.......................................... Fort Defiance, Zilt
susayan Butte, Gan- 
______ada.____________
 PHENACITE 
__ _____ ________[Be2SiO4; colorless]____________ ____
 Colorado............................................................................................................... Mount Antero, 
Pikes
 Peak, Crystal Park, 
Crystal Peak. 
El Paso............ ....................... Topaz Butte, near
 Florissant. 
Kentucky....... ...................................... Elliott ............................................ County.
 Maine...................................................................................................................... Bald Face 
Stoneham. 
Oxford.......................................... Greenwood.
 Mountain,
 New Hampshire.................................... Carroll .........:............. .................. North Chatham.
 North Carolina................................... Jackson........... ............ ............ Webster and Balsam
 ______________________________;_____ Gap.____________
 PREHNITE 
_______________[ H2Ca3Alg(SiO4)3; light green] _____________ ,
 Connecticut ........................................ Hartford ......_.............................. Farmington.
 Massachusetts-....  .   .. Middlesex        
Somerville.
 Michigan-    .  --- ---  Keweenaw ................................ Isle Royale.
 New Jersey. ...................................... Middlesex .-  ---    
Bergen Hill.
 Passaic   .   .......... Great Notch and Pat
erson. 
 Pennsylvania------------- Delaware ............ ............. French Creek mine.
 RHODONITE
 [ MnSiO3; red or streaked with black MnO, pink, fleshy, when occurring with 
_____________________rhodochrosite]_____ _______________
 California  ...................................... Piumas..................:.-................... Taylorsville, 
Valley. 
SiskiyOU........    .  .. Happy Camp.
 Indian
 Maine ............................  ........-  . Hancock....................................... Blue Hill, Osgood
 Farm. 
Massachusetts....................................... Hampshire................................. Cummington.
 Montana.   .......................................... Silver Bow................................. Butte.
 New Jersey.............................................. Sussex...........................- -  Mine Hill, Franklin
 Furnace. 
Morris..   .......................... Dover.
 Oregon,.............................. .................... Josephine and Jackson...... Evans Creek and Cave
 __________________________________ Creek.________
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES
 Table Continued
 State
 County
 SPINEL 
[MgAl204; red, blue, green, yellow, brown, black]
 New Jersey......................................... Hunterdon................................... Bryam.
 Sussex........................................... Andover.
 New York ............................................ Orange.........;................................. Amity.
 251
 Locality
 North Carolina................................ Macon............................................ Culsagee mines, near
 ___________:_____Franklin._______
 THOMSpNITE 
[(Ca, Na21; Al2Si^Oe- 2-|H20 occurs with zeolites, white and reddish brown]
 Arkansas............................................................................................................. Ozark Mountains.-Colorado................................................ Jefferson.................................... Table Mountain,Golden.
 Michigan............................................................................................................ Isle Royale, Lake Su- 
perior region. 
Alger.............................................. County.
 Minnesota ............................................ Cook................................................ Thomsonite 
Beach,
 near Grand Marais.
 New Jersey.......................................... Passaic......................................... West Paterson.
 New York ............................................. Westchester.............................. Peekskill.
 Oregon................................................... Columbia..................................... Goble.___________
 TITANITE 
[Ca, Ti silicate; brown, green, honey yellow]________
 Arkansas.............................................. Garland......................................... Magnet Cove.
 New Jersey ........................................ Sussex........................................... Franklin.
 New York.............................................. Lewis............................................. Diana, Natural Bridge.
 St. Lawrence .......................... County.
 Orange......................................... 
Do.
 Putnam......................................... 
VARISCITE
 Do.__________
 [ A1P04- 2HaO; a matrix stone of dark to light green with white phosphatic 
material, chert, chalcedony]___________
 Arizona ................................................. Maricopa........................  ... Alamo Mountain, near
 Aguila. 
Arkansas.............................................. Garland........................................ County.
 Nevada............................................ Esmeralda ........................... Coaldale and Columbus.
 Nye---- .................................. Utahlite at Manhattan.
 Utah.......................................................... Boxelder...................................... Lucih.
 Tooele............................................ Mercer, Stockton, and
 Stansbury Mountains.
 Utah................................................ Fairfield.
 Washington................................ Oquirrh Mountains.
 WILLEMITE
 [ Zn2SiO4; white, yellow, green, apple green, flesh red, grayish white, yel
lowish brown]____________________
 New Jersey.......................................... Sussex.......................................... Franklin at Mine Hill
 and Sterling Hill. 
New Mexico......................................... Socorro......................................... Merritt mine.
 Utah..............-.............. ....................... Beaver......................................... Star district._____
 WILLIAMSITE
 [Massive, fibrous, foliated, various colors, varietyof serpentine, rich black- 
ish oil green]
 Maryland............................................... Montgomery............................. Bare Hills.
 Pennsylvania....................................... Northampton............................. Easton.
 Lancaster.................................... Texas.
 Chester......................................... West Chester.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMIC GEOLOGY
 SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
 Adams, J. W., 1953, Beryllium deposits of the Mount Antero region, Chaffee
 County, Colo.: U. S. Geol. Survey Bull. 982-D.
 Ander.son, B. W., 1948, Gem testing: New York, Emerson Books, Inc. 
Ball, S. H., 1950, A Roman book on precious stones, including an English
 modernization of the 37th Book of the Historie of the World by C. Plinius
 Secundus: Los Angeles, Gemmological Inst. America. 
Bateman, A. M., 1950, Economic mineral deposits: New York, John Wiley
 & Sons, Inc., p. 834-854. 
Baxter, W. T., 1938, Jewelry, gem cutting, and metalcraft: New York,
 McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc. 
Briggs, H. E., 1944, An encyclopedia of gems: Los Angeles, Gemmological
 Inst. America. 
Clabaugh, S. E., 1952, Corundum deposits of Montana: U. S. Geol. Survey
 Bull. 983. 
Dake, H. C., 1950, Northwest gem trails: Portland, Oreg., Mineralogist Pub.
 Co. (Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming). 
___1951, The agate book: Portland, Oreg., Mineralogist Pub. Co. 
Dake, H. C., Fleener, F. L., and Wilson, B. H., 1938, Quartz family min- 
erals, a handbook for the mineral collector: New York, McGraw-Hill Book
 Co., Inc.
 Fenton, C. L., and Fenton, M. A., 1940, The rock book: New York, Double- 
day, Doran & Co. 
Ford, W. E., 1947, Dana's textbook of mineralogy: New York, John Wiley &
 Sons, Inc. 
Henry, D. J., 1948, California gem trails: Portland, Oreg., Mineralogist
 Pub. Co. 
Hurlburt, C. S., 1952, Dana's manual of mineralogy, 16th ed.: New York,
 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
Kraus, E. H., and Slawson, C. B., 1947, Gems and gem materials, 5th ed.:
 New York, McGraw-Hill Co., Inc. 
Kunz, G. F., 1890, Gems and precious stones of North America, 2ded.:
 New York; Scientific Pub. Co. 
   1905, Gems, jewelers' material, and ornamental stones of California:
 Calif. Div. Mines Bull. 37.  
.1913, The curious lore of precious stones; ***: Phila., J. B. Lippin
cott Co. 
McKinley, W. C., 1939, America gem cabochons, an illustrated handbook of
 domestic semi-precious stones cut unfaceted: Chicago, Lightner Pub. Co. 
Pearl, R. M., 1948, Popular gemology: New York, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
   1951, Colorado gem trails, revised in 1953: Denver, Sage Books, Inc.
 Rogers and Beard, 1947, 5000 years of gems and gemology: Phila., J. B. Lip- 
pincott Co.
 Sanger> Arthur, and Sanger, Lucille, 1951, Cabochon jewelry making: Peoria, 
HI., Bennett Co.
 Shipley, R. M., 1945, Dictionary of gems and gemology: Los Angeles, Gem- 
mological Inst. America.
 Smith, G. F. H., 1949, Gemstones: London, Methuen & Co.
 Staatz, M. H., and Bauer, H. L., Jr., 1952, Virgin Valley opal district, 
Humboldt County, Nev.: U. S. Geol. Survey Circ. 142.
 Sterrett, D. B., 1908, Precious stones: Min. Res. U. S., 1907, p. 795-842.
 ___1909, Precious stones: Min. Res. U. S., 1908, p. 861-868.
   1910, Gems and precious stones: Min. Res. U. S., 1909, p. 739-808.
 ___1911, Gems and precious stones: Min. Res. U. S., 1910, p. 847-900,
 Verrill, A. H., 1939, Minerals, metals, and gems: Boston, L. C. Page & Co.
 Walton, Sir James, 1952, Physical gemmology: New York, Pitman Publish- 
ing Co.
 Webster, Robert, F. G. A., 1952, Practical gemmology: London, N. A. G. 
Press Ltd.
OC.O 
GEM STONES OF THE UNITED STATES 
*°
 Webster, Robert, and Hinton, Virginia, 1945, Introductory gemology, v. 5 
of Jeweler's Library: Los Angeles, Gemmological Inst. America.
 Weinstein, Michael, 1939, Precious and semi-precious stones, 3d ed.: New 
York, Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons.
 Whitlock, H. P., 1940, The story of gems, 2d ed.: New York, Garden City 
Pub. Co.
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1957 O 41 2673