The Hollow Earth 
The Greatest Geographical Discovery in History 
Made by Admiral Richard E. Byrd in the Mysterious Land Beyond the Poles  - The True Origin of the Flying Saucers  
DEDICATED  
To the Future Explorers of the New World that exists beyond North and South Poles in the hollow interior of the 
Earth. Who will Repeat Admiral Byrd's historic Flight for 1,700 Miles beyond the North Pole and that of his 
Expedition for 2,300 Miles beyond the South Pole, entering a New Unknown Territory not shown on any map, 
covering an immense land area whose total size is larger than North America, consisting of forests, mountains, 
lakes, vegetation and animal life.  
The aviator who will be the first to reach this New Territory, unknown until Admiral Byrd first discovered it, will go 
down in history as a New Columbus and greater than Columbus, for while Columbus discovered a new continent, he 
will discover a New World. 
by  
Dr. R. W. Bernard, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.  
1964 
FIELDCREST PUBLISHING CO., INC. 
210 Fifth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.  
1965  
Admiral Byrd’s Epoch-Making Discovery 
The Greatest Geographical Discovery in Human History  
"That enchanted Continent in the Sky, Land of Everlasting Mystery! "  
"I'd like to see that land beyond the (North) Pole. That area beyond the Pole is the Center 
of the Great Unknown:"  - Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd  
The above two statements by the greatest explorer in modern times, Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd of the 
United States Navy, cannot be understood nor make any sense according to old geographical theories 
that the earth is a solid sphere with a fiery core, on which both North and South Poles are fixed points. If 
such was the case, and if Admiral Byrd flew for 1,700 and 2,300 miles respectively across North and 
South Poles, to the icy and snowbound lands that lie on the other side, whose geography is fairly well 
known, it would be incomprehensible for him to make such a statement, referring to this territory on the 
other side of the Poles as "the great unknown".  
Also, he would have no reason to use such a term as "Land of Everlasting Mystery". Byrd was not a 
poet, and what he described was what he observed from his airplane. During his Arctic flight of 1,700 
miles beyond the North Pole he reported by radio that he saw below him, not ice and snow, but land 
areas consisting of mountains, forests, green vegetation, lakes and rivers, and in the underbrush saw a 
strange animal resembling the mammoth found frozen in Arctic ice. Evidently he had entered a warmer 
region than the icebound Territory that extends from the Pole to Siberia. If Byrd had this region in mind he 
would have no reason to call it the "Great Unknown", since it could be reached by flying across the Pole 
to the other side of the Arctic region.  
The only way that we can understand Byrd's enigmatical statements is if we discard the traditional 
conception of the formation of the earth and entertain an entirely new one, according to which its Arctic 
and Antarctic extremities are not convex but concave, and that Byrd entered into the polar concavities 
when he went beyond the Poles. In other words, he did not travel across the Poles to the other side, but 
entered into the polar concavity or depression, which, as we shall see later in this book, opens to the 
hollow interior of the earth, the home of plant, animal and human life, enjoying a tropical climate. This is 
the "Great Unknown" to which Byrd had reference when he made this statement - and not the ice - and 
snow-bound area on the other side of the North Pole, extending to the upper reaches of Siberia.  
The new geographical theory presented in this book, for the first time, makes Byrd's strange, enigmatical 
statements comprehensible and shows that the great explorer was not a dreamer, as may appear to one 
who holds on to old geographical theories. Byrd had entered an entirely new territory, which was 
"unknown" because it was not on any map, and it was not on any map because all maps have been made 
on basis of the belief that the earth is spherical and solid. Since nearly all lands on this solid sphere have 
been explored and recorded by polar explorers, there could not be room on such maps for the territory 
that Admiral Byrd discovered, and which he called the "Great Unknown" - unknown because not on any 
map. It was an area of land as large as North America.  
This mystery can only be solved if we accept the basic conception of the earth's formation presented in 
this book and supported by the observations of Arctic explorers which will be cited here. According to this 
new revolutionary conception, the earth is not a solid sphere, but is hollow, with openings at the Poles, 
and Admiral Byrd entered these openings for a distance of some 4,000 miles during his 1947 and 1956 
Arctic and Antarctic expeditions. The "Great Unknown" to which Byrd referred was the iceless land area 
inside the polar concavities, opening to the hollow interior of the earth. If this conception is correct, as we 
shall attempt to prove, then both North and South Poles cannot exist, since they would be in midair, in the 
center of the polar openings, and would not be on the earth's surface.  
This view was first presented by an American writer, William Reed, in a book, "Phantom of the Poles", 
published in 1906 soon after Admiral Peary claimed to have discovered the North Pole and denying that 
he really did. In 1920 another book was published, written by Marshall Gardner, called "A Journey to the 
Earth's Interior or Have the Poles Really Been Discovered?", making the same claim. Strangely, Gardner 
had no knowledge of Reed's book and came to his conclusions independently. Both Reed and Gardner 
claimed that the earth was hollow, with openings at the poles and that in its interior lives a vast population 
of millions of inhabitants, composing an advanced civilization. This is probably the "Great Unknown" to 
which Admiral Byrd referred.  
To repeat, Byrd could not have had any part of the Earth's known surface in mind when he spoke of the 
"Great Unknown", but rather a new, hitherto unknown land area, free from ice and snow, with green 
vegetation, forests and animal life, that exists nowhere on the Earth's surface but inside the polar 
depression, receiving its heat from its hollow interior, which has a higher temperature than the surface, 
with which it communicates. Only on the basis of this conception can we understand Admiral Byrd's 
statements.  
In January, 1956, Admiral Byrd led another expedition to the Antarctic and there penetrated for 2,300 
miles *beyond* the South Pole. The radio announcement at this time (January 13, 1956) said: "On 
January 13, members of the United States expedition penetrated a land extent of 2,300 miles *beyond* 
the Pole. The flight was made by Rear Admiral George Dufek of the United States Navy Air Unit."  
The word "beyond" is very significant and will be puzzling to those who believe in the old conception of a 
solid earth. It would then mean the region on the other side of the Antarctic continent and the ocean 
beyond, and would not be "a vast new territory" (not on any map), nor would his expedition that found this 
territory be "the most important expedition in the history of the world". The geography of Antarctica is fairly 
well known, and Admiral Byrd has not added anything significant to our knowledge of the Antarctic 
continent. If this is the case, then why should he make such apparently wild and unsupported statements - especially in view of his high standing as a rear admiral of the U.S. Navy and his reputation as a great 
explorer?  
This enigma is solved when we understand the new geographical theory of a Hollow Earth, which is the 
only way we can see sense in Admiral Byrd's statements and not consider him as a visionary who saw 
mirages in the polar regions or at least imagined he did.  
After returning from his Antarctic expedition on March 13, 1956, Byrd remarked: "The present expedition 
has opened up a vast new land." The word "land" is very significant. He could not have referred to any 
part of the Antarctic continent, since none of it consists of "land" and all of it of ice, and, besides, its 
geography is fairly well known and Byrd did not make any noteworthy contribution to Antarctic geography, 
as other explorers did, who left their names as memorials in the geography of this area. If Byrd 
discovered a vast new area in the Antarctic, he would claim it for the United States Government and it 
would be named after him, just as would be the case if his 1,700 mile flight beyond the North Pole was 
over the earth's surface between the Pole and Siberia.  
But we find no such achievements to the credit of the great explorer, nor did he leave his name in Arctic 
and Antarctic geography to the extent that his statements about discovering a new vast land area would 
indicate. If his Antarctic expedition opened up a new immense region of ice on the frozen continent of 
Antarctica, it would not be appropriate to use the word "land," which means an iceless region similar to 
that over which Byrd flew for 1,700 miles beyond the North Pole, which had green vegetation, forests and 
animal life. We may therefore conclude that his 1956 expedition for 2,300 miles beyond the South Pole 
was over similar iceless territory not recorded on any map, and not over any part of the Antarctic 
continent.  
The next year, in 1957, before his death, Byrd called this land beyond the South Pole (not "ice" on the 
other side of the South Pole) "that enchanted continent in the sky, land of everlasting mystery." He could 
not have used this statement if he referred to the part of the icy continent of Antarctica that lies on the 
other side of the South Pole. The words "everlasting mystery" obviously refer to something else. They 
refer to the warmer territory not shown on any map that lies inside the South Polar Opening leading to the 
hollow interior of the Earth.  
The expression "that enchanted continent in the sky" obviously refers to a land area, and not ice, mirrored 
in the sky which acts as a mirror, a strange phenomenon observed by many polar explorers, who speak 
of "the island in the sky" or "water sky," depending or whether the sky of polar regions reflects land or 
water. If Byrd saw the reflection of water or ice he would not use the word "continent," nor call it an 
"enchanted" continent. It was "enchanted" because, according to accepted geographical conceptions, this 
continent which Byrd saw reflected in the sky (where water globules act as a mirror for the surface below) 
could not exist.  
We shall now quote from Ray Palmer, editor of "Flying Saucers" magazine and a leading American 
expert on flying saucers, who is of the opinion that Admiral Byrd's discoveries in the Arctic and Antarctic 
regions offer an explanation of the origin of the flying saucers, which, he believes, do not come from other 
planets, but from the hollow interior of the earth, where exists an advanced civilization far in advance of 
us in aeronautics, using flying saucers for aerial travel, coming to the outside of the earth through the 
polar openings. Palmer explains his views as follows:  
"How well known Is the Earth? Is there any area on Earth that can be regarded as a possible 
origin of the flying saucers? There are two. The two major areas of importance are the Antarctic 
and the Arctic.  
"Admiral Byrd's two flights over both Poles prove that there is a `strangeness' about the shape of 
the Earth in both polar areas. Byrd flew to the North Pole, but did not stop there and turn back, 
but went for 1, 700 miles beyond it, and then retraced his course to his Arctic base (due to his 
gasoline supply running low). As progress was made beyond the Pole point, iceless land and 
lakes, mountains covered with trees, and even a monstrous animal, resembling the mammoth of 
antiquity, was seen moving through the underbrush; and all this was reported via radio by the 
plane occupants. For almost all of the 1,700 miles, the plane flew over land, mountains, trees, 
lakes and rivers.  
"What was this unknown land? Did Byrd, in traveling due north, enter into the hollow interior of 
the Earth through the north polar opening? Later Byrd's expedition went to the South Pole and 
after passing it, went 2,300 miles beyond it.  
"Once again we have penetrated an unknown and mysterious land which does not appear on 
today's maps. And once again we find no announcement beyond the initial announcement of the 
achievement (due to official suppression of news about it - author). And, strangest of all, we find 
the world's millions absorbing the announcements and registering a complete blank in so far as 
curiosity is concerned.  
"Here, then, are the facts. At both poles exist unknown and vast land areas, not in the least 
uninhabitable, extending distances which can only be called tremendous because they 
encompass an area bigger than any known continental area! The North Pole Mystery Land seen 
Byrd and his crew is at least l,700 miles across its traversed direction, and cannot be conceived 
to be merely a narrow strip. It is an area perhaps as large as the entire United States!  
"In the case of the South Pole, the land traversed beyond the Pole included an area as big as 
North America plus the south polar continent.  
"The flying saucers could come from these two unknown lands `beyond the Poles'. It is the 
opinion of the editors of "Flying Saucers" magazine that the existence of these lands cannot be 
disproved by anyone, considering the facts of the two expeditions which we have outlined."  
If Rear Admiral Byrd claimed that his south polar expedition was "the most important expedition in the 
history of the world," and if, after he returned from the expedition, he remarked, "The present expedition 
has opened up a new vast land," it would be strange and inexplicable how such a great discovery of a 
new land area as large as North America, comparable to Columbus's discovery of America, should have 
received no attention and have been almost totally forgotten, so that nobody knew about it, from the most 
ignorant to the most learned.  
The only rational explanation of this mystery is after the brief announcement in the American press based 
on Admiral Byrd's radio report, further publicity was suppressed by the Government, in whose employ 
Byrd was working, and which had important political reasons why Admiral Byrd's historic discovery should 
not be made known to the world. For he had discovered two unknown land areas measuring a total of 
4,000 miles across and probably as large as both the North and South American continents, since Byrd's 
planes turned back without reaching the end of this territory not recorded on any map. Evidently, the 
United States Government feared that some other government may learn about Byrd's discovery and 
conduct similar flights, going much further into it than Byrd did, and perhaps claiming this land area as its 
own.  
Commenting on Byrd's statement, made in 1957 shortly before his death, in which he called the new 
territory he discovered beyond the Poles "that enchanted continent in the sky" and "land of everlasting 
mystery," Palmer says:  
"Considering all this, is there any wonder that all the nations of the world suddenly found the 
south polar region (particularly) and the north polar region so intensely interesting and important, 
and have launched explorations on a scale actually tremendous in scope?"  
Palmer concludes that this new land area that Byrd discovered and which is not on any map, exists inside 
and not outside the earth, since the geography of the outside is quite well known, whereas that of the 
inside (within the polar depression) is "unknown." For that reason Byrd called it the "Great Unknown."  
After discussing the significance of the use of the term "beyond" the Pole by Byrd instead of "across" the 
Pole to the other side of Arctic or Antarctic regions, Palmer concludes that what Byrd referred to was an 
unknown land area inside the polar concavity and connecting with the warmer interior of the Earth, which 
accounts for its green vegetation and animal life. It is "unknown" because it is not on the Earth's outer 
surface and hence is not recorded on any map. Palmer writes:  
"In February of 1947, Admiral Richard E. Byrd, the one man who has done the most to make the 
North Pole a known area, made the following statement: `I'd like to see the land beyond the Pole. 
That area beyond the Pole is the center of the Great Unknown'.  
"Millions of people read this statement in their daily newspapers. And millions thrilled at the 
Admiral's subsequent flight to the Pole and to a point 1,700 miles beyond it. Millions heard the 
radio broadcast description of the flight, which was also published in newspapers.  
"What land was it? Look at your map. Calculate the distance from all the known lands we have 
previously mentioned (Siberia, Spitzbergen, Alaska, Canada, Finland, Norway, Greenland and 
Iceland). A good portion of them are well within the 1,700 mile range. But none of them are within 
200 miles of the Pole. Byrd flew over no known land. He himself called it `the great unknown.' 
And great it is indeed. For after l,700 miles over land, he was forced by gasoline supply shortage 
to return, and he had not yet reached the end of it; He should have been back to `civilization.' But 
he was not. He should have seen nothing but ice-covered ocean, or at the very most, partially 
open ocean. Instead he was over mountains covered with forest.  
"Forests!  
"Incredible! The northernmost limit of the timber-line is located well down into Alaska, Canada 
and Siberia. North of that line, no tree grows! All around the North Pole, the tree does not grow 
within 1,700 miles of the Pole.  
"What have we here? We have the well-authenticated flight of Admiral Richard E. Byrd to a land 
beyond the Pole that he so much wanted to see, because it was the center of the great unknown, 
the center of mystery. Apparently, he had his wish gratified to the fullest, yet today, nowhere is 
this mysterious land mentioned. Why? Was that 1947 flight fiction? Did all the newspapers lie? 
Did the radio from Byrd's plane lie ?  
"No, Admiral Byrd did fly beyond the Pole.  
"Beyond?  
"What did the Admiral mean when he used that word? How is it possible to go `beyond' the Pole? 
Let us consider for a moment. Let us imagine that we are transported by some miraculous means 
to the exact point of the North Magnetic Pole. We arrive there instantaneously, not knowing from 
which direction we came. And all we know is that we are to proceed from the Pole to Spitzbergen. 
But where is Spitzbergen? Which way do we go? South of course: But which South? All 
directions from the North Pole are south!  
"This is actually a simple navigational problem. All expeditions to the Pole, whether flown, or by 
submarine, or on foot, have been faced with this problem. Either they must retrace their steps, or 
discover which southerly direction is the correct one to their destination, wherever it has been 
determined to be. The problem is solved by making a turn in any direction, and proceeding 
approximately 20 miles. Then we stop, measure the stars, correlate with our compass reading 
(which no longer points straight down, but toward the North Magnetic Pole), and plot our course 
on the map. Then it is a simple matter to proceed to Spitzbergen by going south.  
"Admiral Byrd did not follow this traditional navigational procedure. When he reached the Pole, he 
continued for 1, 700 miles. To all intents and purposes, he continued on a northerly course, after 
crossing the Pole. And weirdly, it stands on record that he succeeded, or he would not see that 
`land beyond the Pole,' which to this day, if we are to scan the records of newspapers, books. 
radio, television and word of mouth, has never been revisited.  
"That land, on today's maps, cannot exist. But since it does, we can only conclude that today's 
maps are incorrect, incomplete and do not represent a true picture of the Northern Hemisphere.  
"Having thus located a great land mass in the North, not on any map today, a land which is the 
center of the great unknown, which can only be construed to imply that the 1,709 mile extent 
traversed by Byrd is only a portion of it."  
Such an important discovery, which Byrd called "the most important" in the history of the world, should 
have been known to everyone, if information about it was not suppressed to such an extent that it was 
almost completely forgotten until Giannini mentioned it in his book "Worlds Beyond the Poles," 
published in New York in 1959. Similarly, Giannini's book, for some strange reason, was not advertised 
by the publisher and remained unknown.  
At the end of the same year, 1959, Ray Palmer, editor of "Flying Saucers" magazine, gave publicity to 
Admiral Byrd's discovery, about which he learned in a copy of Giannini's book he read. He was so much 
impressed that in December of that year he published this information in his magazine, which was for sale 
on newsstands throughout the United States. Then followed a series of strange incidents, indicating that 
secret forces were at work to prevent the information contained in the December issue of "Flying 
Saucers" magazine, derived from Giannini's book, from reaching the public.  
Who are these secret forces that have a special reason to suppress the release of information about 
Admiral Byrd's great discovery of new land areas not on any map. Obviously, they are the same forces 
that suppressed news release of information, except for a brief press notice, after Byrd made his great 
discovery and before Giannini published the first public statement about it in many years, in 1959, twelve 
years after the discovery was made.  
Palmer's announcement of Byrd's discoveries in the Arctic and Antarctic was the first large scale publicity 
since the time they were made and briefly announced, and so much more significant than Giannini's 
quotations and statements in his book that was not properly advertised and enjoyed a limited sale. For 
this reason, soon after the December, 1959 issue of "Flying Saucers" was ready to mail to subscribers 
and placed on newsstands, it was mysteriously removed from circulation - evidently by the same secret 
forces that suppressed the public release of this information since 1947. When the truck arrived to deliver 
the magazines from the printer to the publisher, no magazines were found in the truck! A phone call by 
the publisher (Mr. Palmer) to the printer resulted in his not finding any shipping receipt proving shipment 
to have been made. The magazines having been paid for, the publisher asked that the printer return the 
plates to the press and run off the copies due. But, strangely, the plates were not available, and were so 
badly damaged that no re-printing could be made.  
But where were the thousands of magazines that had been printed and mysteriously disappeared? Why 
was there no shipping receipt? If it was lost and the magazines were sent to the wrong address, they 
would turn up somewhere. But they did not.  
As a result, 5000 subscribers did not get the magazine. One distributor who received 750 copies to sell 
on his newsstand was reported missing, and 750 magazines disappeared with him. These magazines 
were sent to him with the request that they be returned if not delivered. They did not come back. Since 
the magazine disappeared completely, several months later it was republished and sent to subscribers.  
What did this magazine contain that caused it to be suppressed in this manner - by invisible nd secret 
forces? It contained a report of Admiral Byrd's flight beyond the North Pole in 1947, knowledge 
concerning which was previously suppressed except for mention of it in Giannini's book, "Worlds Beyond 
the Poles." The December, 1959 issue of "Flying Saucers" was obviously considered as dangerous by 
the secret forces that had a special reason to withhold this information from the world and keep it secret. 
In this issue of "Flying Saucers," the following statements were quoted from Giannini's book:  
"Since December 12, 1929, U.S. Navy polar expeditions have determined the existence of 
indeterminable land extent beyond the Pole points.  
"On January 13, 1956, as this book was being prepared, a U.S. air unit penetrated to the extent 
of 2,300 miles beyond the assumed South Pole end of the earth. That flight was always over land 
and water and ice. For very substantial reasons, the memorable flight received negligible press 
notice.  
"The United States and more than thirty other nations prepared unprecedented polar expeditions 
for 1957-1958 to penetrate land now proved to extend beyond both Pole points. My original 
disclosure of then unknown land beyond the Poles, in 1926-1928, was captioned by the press as 
`more daring than anything Jules Verne ever conceived' Then Giannini quoted the following 
statements by Admiral Byrd we have presented above:  
"1947: February. `I'd like to see that land beyond the Pole. That area beyond the Pole is 
the center of the great unknown.'  - Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd, United States Navy, before his seven-hour flight over 
land beyond the North Pole.  
"1956: January 13. `On January 13, members of the United States expedition 
accomplished a flight of 2,700 miles from the base at McMurdo Sound, which is 400 
miles west of the South Pole, and penetrated a land extent of 2,300 miles beyond the 
Pole.'  - Radio announcement, confirmed by press of February 5.  
"1956: March 13. `The present expedition has opened up a vast new land'  - Admiral Byrd, after returning from the Land beyond the South Pole.  
"1957: `That enchanting continent in the sky, land of everlasting mystery'  - Admiral Byrd."  
No attention was given by the scientific world to Giannini's book. The strange and revolutionary 
geographical theory it presented was ignored as eccentric rather than scientific. Yet Admiral Byrd's 
statements only make sense if some such conception of the existence of "land beyond the Poles," as 
Giannini claimed to exist, is accepted. Giannini writes:  
"There is no physical end of the Earth's northern and southern extremities. The Earth cannot be 
circumnavigated north and south within the meaning of the word, `circumnavigate.' However, 
certain `round the world' flights have contributed to the popular misconception that the Earth has 
been circumnavigated north and south.  
"`Over the North Pole,' with return to the North Temperate Zone areas, without turning around, 
can never be accomplished because there is no northern end of the Earth. The same conditions 
hold true for the South Pole.  
"The existence of worlds beyond the Poles has been confirmed by United States Naval 
exploration during the past thirty years. The confirmation is substantial. The world's eldest 
explorer, Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd commanded the government's memorable expedition 
into that endless land beyond the South Pole. Prior to his departure from San Francisco he 
delivered the momentous radio announcement, `This is the most important expedition in the 
history of the world.' The subsequent January 13, 1956 penetration of land beyond the Pole to the 
extent of 2,300 miles proved that the Admiral had not been exaggerating."  
Commenting on Giannini's statements about the impossibility of going straight north, over the North Pole 
and reaching the other side of the world, which would be the case if the Earth was convex, rather than 
concave, at the Pole, Palmer writes in his magazine, "Flying Saucers:"  
"Many of the readers stated that commercial flights continually cross the Pole and fly to the 
opposite side of the Earth. This is not true, and though the Airline officials themselves, when 
asked, might say that they do, it is not literally true. They do make navigational maneuvers which 
automatically eliminate a flight beyond the Pole in a straight line, in every sense. Ask the pilots of 
these polar flights. And when they come to the exact point, name one trans-polar flight on which 
you can buy a ticket which actually crosses the North Pole.  
"Examining the route of flights across the North Polar area we always find that they go around the 
Pole or to the side of it and never directly across it. This is strange. Surely a flight advertised as 
passing directly over the North Pole would attract many passengers who would like to have that 
experience. Yet, strangely, no airline offers such a flight. Their air routes always pass on one side 
of the Pole. Why? Is it not possible that if they went straight across the Pole, instead of landing on 
the opposite side of the Earth, the plane would go to that land beyond the Pole, `the center of the 
Great Unknown', as Admiral Byrd called it?"  
Palmer suggests that such an expedition that travels directly north and continues north after reaching the 
North Pole point (which he believes is in the center of the polar concavity and not on solid land at all) 
should be organized, retracing Admiral Byrd's route and continuing onward in the same direction, until the 
hollow interior of the earth is reached. This, apparently, was never done, in spite of the fact that the 
United States Navy, in its archives, has a record of Admiral Byrd's flights and discoveries. Perhaps the 
reason for this is that the new geographical conception of the Earth's formation in the polar regions, which 
is necessary to accept before the true significance of Admiral Byrd's findings can be appreciated, was not 
held by Navy chiefs, who, as a result, put the matter aside and forgot about it.  
The above statement by Palmer that commercial airlines do not pass over the North Pole seems 
reasonable in the light of new Soviet discoveries in relation to the North Magnetic Pole, which was found 
not to be a point but a long line, which we believe is a circular line, constituting the rim of the polar 
concavity, so that any point on this circle could be called the North Magnetic Pole, because here the 
needle of the compass dips directly downward. If this is the case, then it would be impossible for 
airplanes to cross the North Pole, which is in the center of the polar depression and not on the Earth's 
surface, as according to the theory of a solid Earth and convex formation on the Pole. When airplanes 
believe they reached the North Pole, according to compass readings, they really reach the rim of the 
polar concavity, where is the true North Magnetic Pole.  
Referring to Giannini's book, Palmer comments:  
"The strange book written by Giannini has offered the one possibility by which it can definitely be 
proved that the Earth is shaped strangely at the North Pole, as we believe it to be at the South 
Pole, not necessarily with a hole all the way through, but like a doughnut which has swelled so 
much in cooking that the hole is only a deep depression at each end, or like a gigantic auto tire 
mounted on a solid hub with recessed hub caps.  
"No human being has ever flown directly over the North Pole and continued straight on. Your 
editor thinks it should be done and done immediately. We have the planes to do it. Your editor 
wants to know for sure whether such a flight would wind up in any of the countries surrounding 
the North Pole, necessarily exactly opposite the starting point. Navigation is not to be made by 
the compass or by triangulation on existing maps, but solely by gyro compass on an undeviated 
straight course from the moment of take-off to the moment of landing. And not only a gyro 
compass in a horizontal plane, but one in a vertical plane also (after one enters the polar 
opening). There must be a positive forward motion which cannot be disputed.  
"Everyone knows that a horizontal gyro compass, such as used now, causes a plane to 
continually gain in elevation as the Earth curves away below it, as it progresses. Now, according 
to our theory of polar depression, this would mean that when a plane enters into this depression, 
the gyro compass should show a much greater gain in elevation than should otherwise be the 
case, due to the Earth's curving inward at the North Pole. Now, if the plane continues in a 
northerly course, this gain in altitude will continue the further it goes; and if the plane tries to 
maintain the same altitude, it will curve into the hollow interior of the earth."  
The following statements by Giannini, written in a letter to an inquirer, who read about him in Palmer's 
"Flying Saucers" magazine, are interesting:  
"The author was extended courtesy by the New York office of U.S. Naval Research, to transmit a 
radio message of godspeed to Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, U.S.N., at his Arctic base in 
February, 1947.  
"At that time the late Rear Admiral Byrd announced through the press, `I'd like to see the land 
beyond the Pole. That land beyond the Pole is the center of the great unknown.' Subsequently, 
Admiral Byrd and a naval task force executed a seven hour flight of 1,700 miles over land 
extending beyond the theorized North Pole `end' of the Earth.  
"In January, 1947, prior to the flight, this author was enabled to sell a series of newspaper 
features to an international feature syndicate only because of this author's assurance to the 
syndicate director that Byrd would in fact go beyond the imaginary North Pole point.  
"As a result of the author's prior knowledge of the then commonly unknown land extending 
beyond the pole points, and after the syndicated features had been released to the press, the 
author was investigated by the office of the U. S. Naval Intelligence. That Intelligence 
investigation was due to the fact of Byrd's definite confirmation of the author's revolutionary 
theories.  
"Later, in March, 1958, the author delivered a radio address in Missouri, expressing the 
importance of the discovery of land beyond the imaginary North Pole and South Pole points of 
archaic theory. "  
Speaking of the reports of Admiral Byrd's February 1947 flight beyond the North Pole, which appeared in 
New York newspapers, Giannini comments:  
"These accounts described Byrd's 1,700 mile flight of seven hours over land and fresh water 
lakes BEYOND the assumptive North Pole `end' of the Earth. And the dispatches were intensified 
until a strict censorship was imposed from Washington."  
Another American writer on flying saucers, Michael X, was impressed by Byrd's discoveries, and came to 
the conclusion that flying saucers must come from an advanced civilization in the Earth's interior, whose 
outer fringes Byrd visited. He describes Byrd's trip as follows:  
"There was a strange valley below them. For some strange reason the valley Byrd saw was not 
ice-covered, as it should have been. It was green and luxuriant. There were mountains with thick 
forests of trees on them, and there was lush grass and underbrush. Most amazingly, a huge 
animal was observed moving through the underbrush. In a land of ice, snow and almost perpetual 
`deep freeze,' this was a stupendous mystery.  
"When Admiral Byrd went into this unknown country, into `the center of the great unknown,' 
where was he? In the light of the theory of Marshall Gardner, he was at the very doorway that 
leads to the earth's interior and which lies beyond the Pole.  
"Both Alaska and Canada have had much more of their share of sightings of flying saucers in 
recent months. Why? Is there some connection with the `land beyond the Pole' - that unknown 
territory inside the earth?  
"There must be a connection. If the flying saucers enter and leave the earth's interior by way of 
the polar openings, it is natural that they would be seen by Alaskans and Canadians much more 
frequently than they would be by people in other parts of the world. Alaska is close to the North 
Pole and so is Canada."  
The above observations of a concentration of flying saucers in the Arctic region corresponds to similar 
observations by Jarrold and Bender of a concentration in the Antarctic, where they are believed by flying 
saucer experts to have a landing base, from where they are seen to ascend and return. However, 
according to the theory of this book, what really occurs, in the Antarctic as in the Arctic, is that the flying 
saucers emerge from and reenter the polar opening leading to the hollow interior of the Earth, their true 
place of origin.  
Aime Michel, in his `straight line' theory, proved that most of the flight patterns of the flying saucers are in 
a north-south direction, which is exactly what would be true if their origin was polar, coming from either 
the north or south polar opening.  
In February 1947, about the time when Admiral Byrd made his great discovery of land beyond the North 
Pole, another remarkable discovery was made in the continent of Antarctica, the discovery of "Bunger's 
Oasis." This discovery was made by Lt. Commander David Bunger who was at the controls of one of six 
large transport planes used by Admiral Byrd for the U. S. Navy's `Operation Highjump' (1946-1947).  
Bunger was flying inland from the Shackleton Ice Shelf near Queen Mary Coast of Wilkes Land. He and 
his crew were about four miles from the coastline where open water lies.  
The land Bunger discovered was ice-free. The lakes were of many different colors, ranging from rusty red, 
green to deep blue. Each of the lakes was more than three miles long. The water was warmer than the 
ocean, as Bunger found by landing his seaplane on one of the lakes. Each lake had a gently sloping 
beach.  
Around the four edges of the oasis, which was roughly square in shape, Bunger saw endless and eternal 
white snow and ice. Two sides of the oasis rose nearly a hundred feet high, and consisted of great ice 
walls. The other two sides had a more gradual and gentle slope.  
The existence of such an oasis in the far Antarctic, a land of perpetual ice, would indicate warmer 
conditions there, which would exist if the oasis was in the south polar opening, leading to the warmer 
interior of the earth, as was the case with the warmer territory, with land and lakes, that Admiral Byrd 
discovered beyond the North Pole, which was probably within the north polar opening. Otherwise one 
cannot explain the existence of such an oasis of unfrozen territory in the midst of the continent of 
Antarctica with ice miles thick. The oasis could not result from volcanic activity below the Earth's surface, 
for, since the land area of the oasis covered three hundred square miles, it was too big to be affected by 
volcanic heat supply. Warm wind currents from the Earth's interior are a better explanation.  
Thus Byrd in the Arctic and Bunger in the Antarctic both made similar discoveries of warmer land areas 
beyond the Poles at about the same time, early in 1947. But they were not the only ones to make such a 
discovery. Some time ago a newspaper in Toronto, Canada, "The Globe and Mail," published a photo of a 
green valley taken by an aviator in the Arctic region. Evidently the aviator took the picture from the air and 
did not attempt to land. It was a beautiful valley and contained rolling green hills. The aviator must have 
gone beyond the North Pole into the same warmer territory that Admiral Byrd visited, which lies inside the 
polar opening. This picture was published in 1960.  
In further confirmation of Admiral Byrd's discovery are reports of individuals who claimed they had 
entered the north polar opening, as many Arctic explorers did without knowing they did, and penetrated 
far enough into it to reach the Subterranean World in the hollow interior of the Earth. Dr. Nephi Cottom of 
Los Angeles reported that one of his patients, a man of Nordic descent, told him the following story:  
"I lived near the Arctic Circle in Norway. One summer my friend and I made up our minds to take 
a boat trip together, and go as far as we could into the north country. So we put one month's food 
provisions in a small fishing boat, and with sail and also a good engine in our boat, we set to sea.  
"At the end of one month we had traveled far into the north, beyond the Pole and into a strange 
new country. We were much astonished at the weather there. Warm, and at times at night it was 
almost too warm to sleep. (Arctic explorers who penetrated into the far north have made similar 
reports of warm weather, at times warm enough to make them shed their heavy clothing - 
Author). Then we saw something so strange that we both were astonished. Ahead of the warm 
open sea we were on what looked like a great mountain. Into that mountain at a certain point the 
ocean seemed to be emptying. Mystified, we continued in that direction and found ourselves 
sailing into a vast canyon leading into the interior of the Earth. We kept sailing and then we saw 
what surprised us - a sun shining inside the earth!  
"The ocean that had carried us into the hollow interior of the Earth gradually became a river. This 
river led, as we came to realize later, all through the inner surface of the world from one end to 
the other. It can take you, if you follow it long enough, from the North Pole clear through to the 
South Pole.  
"We saw that the inner surface of the earth was divided, as the other one is, into both land and 
water. There is plenty of sunshine and both animal and vegetable life abounds there. We sailed 
further and further into this fantastic country, fantastic because everything was huge in size as 
compared with things on the outside. Plants are big, trees gigantic and finally we came to 
GIANTS.  
"They were dwelling in homes and towns, just as we do on the Earth's surface. And they used a 
type of electrical conveyance like a mono-rail car, to transport people. It ran along the river's edge 
from town to town.  
"Several of the inner earth inhabitants - huge giants - detected our boat on the river, and were 
quite amazed. They were, however, quite friendly. We were invited to dine with them in their 
homes, and so my companion and I separated, he going with one giant to that giant's home and I 
going with another giant to his home.  
"My gigantic friend brought me home to his family, and I was completely dismayed to see the 
huge size of all the objects in his home. The dinner table was colossal. A plate was put before me 
and filled with a portion of food so big it would have fed me abundantly an entire week. The giant 
offered me a cluster of grapes and each grape was as big as one of our peaches. I tasted one 
and found it far sweeter than any I had ever tasted `outside.' In the interior of the Earth all the 
fruits and vegetables taste far better and more flavorsome than those we have on the outer 
surface of the Earth.  
"We stayed with the giants for one year, enjoying their companionship as much as they enjoyed 
knowing us. We observed many strange and unusual things during our visit with these 
remarkable people, and were continually amazed at their scientific progress and inventions. All of 
this time they were never unfriendly to us, and we were allowed to return to our own home in the 
same manner in which we came - in fact, they courteously offered their protection it we should 
need it for the return voyage."  
These giants were evidently members of the antediluvian race of Atlanteans who established residence in 
the Earth's interior prior to the historic deluge that submerged their Atlantic continent.  
A similar experience of a visit to the hollow interior of the earth, through the polar opening, and entirely 
independently, was made by another Norwegian named Olaf Jansen and recorded in the book, "The 
Smoky God," written by Willis George Emerson, an American writer. The book is based on a report made 
by Jansen to Mr. Emerson before his death, describing his real experience of visiting the interior of the 
earth and its inhabitants.  
The title, "The Smoky God," refers to the central sun in the hollow interior of the Earth, which, being 
smaller and less brilliant than our sun, appears as "smoky." The book relates the true experience of a 
Norse father and son, who, with their small fishing boat and unbounded courage, attempted to find "the 
land beyond the north wind," as they had heard of its warmth and beauty. An extraordinary windstorm 
carried them most of the distance, through the polar opening into the hollow interior of the Earth. They 
spent two years there and returned through the south polar opening. The father lost his life when an 
iceberg broke in two and destroyed the boat. The son was rescued and subsequently spent 24 years in 
prison for insanity, as a result of telling the story of his experience to incredulous people.  
When he was finally released, he told the story to no one. After 26 years as a fisherman, he saved 
enough money to come to the United States and settled in Illinois, and later in California. In his nineties, 
by accident, the novelist Willis George Emerson befriended him and was told the story. On the old man's 
death he relinquished the maps that he had made of the interior of the Earth, and the manuscript 
describing his experiences. He refused to show it to anyone while he was alive, due to his past 
experience of people disbelieving him and considering him insane if he mentioned the subject.  
The book, "The Smoky God," describing Olaf Jansen's unusual trip to the hollow interior of the Earth, was 
published in 1908. It tells about the people who dwell inside the Earth, whom he and his father met during 
their visit and whose language he learned. He said that they live from 400 to 800 years and are highly 
advanced in science. They can transmit their thoughts from one to another by certain types of radiations 
and have sources of power greater than our electricity.  
They are the creators of the flying saucers, which are operated by this superior power, drawn from the 
electromagnetism of the atmosphere. They are twelve or more feet in stature. It is remarkable how this 
report of a visit to the Earth's interior corresponds with the other described above, yet both were entirely 
independent of each other. Also the gigantic size of the human beings dwelling in the Earth's interior 
corresponds to the great size of its animal life, as observed by Admiral Byrd, who, during his 1,700 mile 
flight beyond the North Pole, observed a strange animal resembling the ancient mammoth.  
We shall present later in this book the theory of Marshall Gardner that the mammoths found enclosed in 
ice, rather than being prehistoric animals, are really huge animals from the Earth's interior who were 
carried to the surface by rivers and frozen in the ice that was formed by the water that carried them.  
The Hollow Earth  
By: Dr. R. W. Bernard, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.  
Before Columbus discovered America, belief in the existence of a New World across the Atlantic, in the 
form of a western continent, was considered as the dream of a madman.  
Equally strange, in our own time, is the belief in the existence of a New World, a Subterranean World, in 
the hollow interior of the Earth, and which is as unknown to present humanity as the American continent 
was to Europeans prior to its discovery by Columbus. Yet there is no reason why it, too, may not be 
discovered and its existence established as a fact.  
Arnoldo de Azevedo, in his "Physical Geography," wrote as follows about the mysterious world below 
our feet, concerning which scientists know nothing beyond a few miles in profundity, entertaining only 
theories, hypotheses and conjectures to hide their ignorance:  
"We have below, our feet an immense region whose radius is 6,290 kilometers, which is 
completely unknown, challenging the conceit and competence of scientists."  
This statement is absolutely true. Scientists to date have penetrated only a few miles inside the earth, and 
what lies further down they know nothing about, depending only on conjectures, guesses and 
suppositions. Many of the commonly accepted theories and beliefs about the Earth's interior do not rest 
on any scientific basis, and seem to originate in the old ecclesiastical idea of hellfire in the center of the 
Earth, which is so much like the belief of scientists that the core of the Earth is a mass of fire and molten 
metal. Yet the scientific belief rests on no more positive evidence than the religious one. Both are merely 
suppositions without an iota of proof.  
The belief in the Earth having a fiery center probably arose from the fact that the deeper one penetrates 
into the Earth, the warmer it gets. But it is a far-fetched assumption to suppose that this increase of 
temperature continues until the center of the Earth. There is no evidence to support this view. It is more 
probable that the increase of temperature continues only until we reach the level where volcanic lava and 
earthquakes originate, probably due to the existence of much radioactive substances there. But after we 
pass through this layer of maximum heat, there is no reason why it should not get cooler and cooler as 
we get nearer and nearer to the Earth's center.  
The total surface of the Earth is 197 million square miles and its estimated weight is six sextillion tons. If 
the Earth was a solid sphere, its weight would be much greater. This is one among other scientific 
evidences of the fact that the Earth has a hollow interior.  
The author believes that the truest conception of the structure of the Earth is based on the idea that when 
it was in a molten state during its formation, centrifugal force caused the heavier substances to be thrown 
outward, toward its periphery, in the form of rocks and metals, to form its outer crust, leaving its interior 
hollow, with openings at the poles, where centrifugal force was less and where there was less tendency 
to throw materials outward, which was greater at the equator, causing the bulging of the earth in this 
region. It has been estimated that as a result of the Earth's rotation on its axis during its formative state, 
polar depressions and openings thus formed would measure about 1,400 miles in diameter.  
Also, we shall present below evidence to indicate that some of the original fire and incandescent 
materials remained in the center of the Earth to form a central sun, much smaller, of course, than our sun, 
but capable of emitting light and supporting plant growth. We shall also see that the Aurora Borealis or 
streaming lights that illuminate the Arctic sky at night come from this central sun whose rays shine 
through the polar opening.  
Thus, if the Earth was originally a ball of fire and molten metal, some of this fire remained in its center, 
while centrifugal force as a result of its rotation on its axis caused its solid matter to be thrown toward the 
surface, forming a solid crust and leaving its interior hollow, with a fiery ball in its center, forming the 
central sun, which provides illumination for plant, animal and human life.  
The first one to present the theory of the earth being hollow with openings at its poles was an American 
thinker, William Reed, author of the book, "Phantom of the Poles," published in 1906. This book 
provides the first compilation of scientific evidence, based on the reports of Arctic explorers, in support of 
the theory that the Earth is hollow with openings at its poles. Reed estimates that the crust of the Earth 
has a thickness of 800 miles, while its hollow interior has a diameter of 6,400 miles. Reed summarizes his 
revolutionary theory as follows:  
"The earth is hollow. The Poles, so long sought, are phantoms. There are openings at the 
northern and southern extremities. In the interior are vast continents, oceans, mountains and 
rivers. Vegetable and animal life are evident in this New World, and it is probably peopled by 
races unknown to dwellers on the Earth's surface."  
Reed pointed out that the Earth is not a true sphere, but is flattened at the Poles, or rather it begins to 
flatten out as one approaches the hypothetical North and South Pole, which really do not exist because 
the openings to its hollow interior occur there. Hence the Poles are really in midair, in the center of the 
polar openings and are not on its surface as would-be discoverers of the Poles suppose.  
Reed claims that the Poles cannot be discovered because the Earth is hollow at its Pole points, which 
exist in midair, due to the existence there of polar openings leading to its interior. When explorers thought 
they reached the Pole, they were misled by the eccentric behavior of the compass in high latitudes, north 
and south. Reed claims that this happened in the case of Peary and Cook, neither of whom really 
reached the North Pole, as we shall see in later pages.  
Starting at 70 to 75 degrees north and south latitude the Earth starts to curve IN. The Pole is simply the 
outer rim of a magnetic circle around the polar opening. The North Magnetic Pole, once thought to be a 
point in the Arctic Archipelago, has been lately shown by Soviet Arctic explorers to be a line 
approximately 1000 miles long. However, as we stated above, instead of being a straight line it is really a 
circular line constituting the rim of the polar opening. When an explorer reaches this rim, he has reached 
the North Magnetic Pole; and though the compass will always point to it after one passes it, it is really not 
the North Pole even if one is deluded into thinking it is, or that he discovered the Pole due to having been 
misled by his compass. When one reaches this magnetic circle (the rim of the polar opening), the 
magnetic needle of the compass points straight down. This has been observed by many Arctic explorers 
who, after reaching high latitudes, near to 90 degrees, were dumbfounded by the inexplicable action of 
the compass and its tendency to point vertically upward. (They were then inside the polar opening and 
the compass pointed to the Earth's North Magnetic Pole which was along the rim of this opening.  
As the Earth turns on its axis, the motion is gyroscopic, like the spinning of a top. The outer gyroscopic 
pole is the magnetic circle of the rim of the polar opening. Beyond the rim the Earth flattens and slopes 
gradually toward its hollow interior. The true Pole is the exact center of the opening at the Poles, which, 
consequently, do not really exist, and those who claimed to have discovered them did not tell the truth, 
even if they thought they did, having been misled by the irregular action of the compass at high latitudes. 
For this reason, neither Cook nor Peary nor any other explorer ever reached the North or South Poles, 
and never will.  
A very interesting article on the above subject appeared in the March 1962 issue of "Flying Saucers" 
magazine, written by its editor, Ray Palmer, who believes that flying saucers come from the hollow interior 
of the Earth through its polar openings. The article is entitled, "THE NORTH POLE - RUSSIAN STYLE. " 
It describes remarkable discoveries made by Russian Arctic explorers, which confirm the theory of a 
hollow earth and polar openings, as do the observations of Arctic explorers to which we shall refer below. 
The article bears the following subtitle:  
"More Evidence of Mystery Lands at the Poles - Two Hundred Years of Exploration Have Given 
the Russians a New Concept of the Pole and Render all Previous Geographies Obsolete - Here 
are Indisputable Geophysical Facts!"  
We shall now quote from this article:  
"Many readers will remember the articles we have published giving our theories that there is 
something mysterious about each polar area of the Earth. We have suggested that there is much 
more "area" at both poles than it is possible to show on a globe map. We have pointed out 
Admiral Byrd's strange flights `beyond' the poles. We have mentioned the case of missing 
mountains and different branches of the military discounting the mapping ability of the other. We 
have even suggested that the Earth is hollow, and that giant 2,100 mile openings exist at the 
poles, and there is much evidence of the existence of these openings. We have pointed out that 
there is a great deal of secrecy and double-talk about the Arctic and Antarctic areas. We have 
even suggested that the flying saucers might come from this mystery area, or from inside the 
Earth.  
"One of the things we have been most insistent about is that no one has yet been to the North 
Pole, all claims to having done so being false, because the Pole is not a `point,' and cannot be 
`reached' in the accepted sense of the word.  
"We have successfully challenged those military and civilian pilots who have claimed that they fly 
`daily' over the North Pole. In the case of the military flyer we have pointed out the maneuver 
which is standard, which automatically makes it impossible for him to fly `beyond' the Pole by 
flying straight across it. (That is, across the polar opening, instead of going into it - Author.) 
Because of navigating difficulties stemming from compasses of all kinds"  
"A `lost' flier (whose compass doesn't work as it should) regains his bearings by making a turn in 
any direction, until his compasses again resume function. In the case of commercial airlines, 
whose advertising boast is that they fly twice daily over the Pole, they are simply stretching the 
truth by 2,300 miles. (They simply cross over the magnetic rim of the polar opening, where the 
compass registers the highest degree north, but do not actually reach the North Pole, which is the 
central point of the polar opening inside this rim - Author.)  
"We have available, in the form of records of several hundred years, in Russian archives, a 
history of Arctic exploration which proves our most important point beyond further question: i.e., 
that the North Magnetic Pole is not a point, but (deduce the Russians) a `line' approximately 1000 
miles long. Before we go further, we might suggest that we think they are wrong in this deduction, 
and that instead of being a line, it is actually a circle. Because of lack of space to place it on the 
globe, the Russians have been forced to compress their observations into a two dimensional 
area. They had to squeeze the circle from two sides and make a line out of it. We'd like to give 
you now a resume of that single point of Russian exploration, which actually covers much more 
than just geomagnetism.  
"Here is what the Russians say: Navigators in the high latitudes have always been troubled by 
the odd behavior of their magnetic compasses caused by apparent irregularities and asymmetries 
in the magnetic field of the Earth. Early magnetic maps have been drawn on this assumption, 
based on hopeful guesses, that the North Magnetic Pole is virtually a point. Accordingly, it was 
expected that the compass needle, which dips more steeply as it approaches the Magnetic Pole, 
would point straight down, or very nearly so, at the Magnetic Pole itself. But data from many 
Russian and other expeditions showed that the compass needle points straight down, or nearly 
so, at the Magnetic Pole itself. But data from many Russian and other expeditions showed that 
the compass needle points straight down for a very long distance across the Arctic Ocean, from a 
point northwest of the Taimyr Peninsula to another point in the Arctic Archipelago. This discovery 
first inspired the hypothesis that there is a second North Magnetic Pole, tentatively located at 86 
degrees East longitude. More refined observation has disposed of this idea. The map of the 
magnetic field now shows the magnetic meridians running close together in a thick bunch of lines 
from the North Magnetic Pole in the Arctic Archipelago to Siberia.  
"The North Magnetic Pole, once thought to be virtually a point in the Arctic Archipelago, has been 
shown by recent investigations to extend across the polar basin to the Taimyr Penninsula in 
Siberia.  
"The `Pole,' magnetically speaking, is a very extended area that crosses the Polar Basin from one 
continent to the other. It is at least 1,000 miles long, and more likely can be said to exist as a 
rather diffused line for 1,000 miles more. (It is really not a point in the far north, but is the rim of 
the polar opening, since after Admiral Byrd passed it and entered the polar opening leading to the 
Earth's interior, he left the Arctic ice and snow behind and entered a warmer territory - Author. ) 
Thus when Admiral Peary (and any other Arctic explorer who used a magnetic compass) claims 
to have `reached' the Pole, he is making a very vague claim indeed. He can only say that he 
reached a point, which can be anywhere in a demonstrable 2,000 mile area (the magnetic rim of 
the polar opening), where his compass pointed straight down. A noteworthy achievement, but not 
a `discovery of the Pole.'  
"Since other types of compass, such as the gyroscopic and the inertial guidance, have equally 
vague limitations, we make bold to say that nobody ever reached the Pole, and more, there is not 
a `Pole' to reach.  
"Next, having found themselves stumped to account for the strange behavior of the compass in 
the Polar Basin, the theorists have turned to space and the upper atmosphere and even to the 
sun for an explanation of what is happening to their instruments. Now the Pole has become `the 
interaction of the magnetic field with charged particles from the sun.'  
"More significant are the unfavorable references to former cartographers whose maps are now 
`thick clouds congealed in the imagination of cartographers as land masses.' The Navy, as an 
example, feels a bit put out when the Army says their missing South Pole mountains were never 
there, because the Army cannot find them by their own confused reckoning based on a magnetic 
pole which `isn't there at all.' We find now that new land areas are `discovered' and old maps 
tossed out because the lands they show are not there any more. (This confusion is due to the 
irregular action of the compass in the far north due to the fact that the North Magnetic Pole is not 
a point as former cartographers supposed, but a circle around the rim of the polar opening - 
Author.)  
"This brings us to the subject of `mystery lands' of great extent in the polar areas, which cannot 
possibly be placed on our globe without overlapping seriously in impossible ways...Could it be 
here where the flying saucers originate?"  
It is well known that the North and South Magnetic Poles do not coincide with the geographical poles, as 
they should were the Earth a solid sphere, convex at its poles. The reason why the magnetic and 
geographical poles don't coincide is because, while the magnetic pole lies along the rim of the polar 
opening, the geographical pole lies in its center, in midair and not on solid land. As we shall see below, 
the true magnetic pole is not on the external rim of the polar opening but the center of the Earth's crust, 
which should be about 400 miles below the surface, and running around the polar opening. For this 
reason the needle of the compass still continues to point vertically downward after one passes the rim of 
the polar opening and penetrates into it. Only after passing its center would the needle of the compass 
start pointing upward instead of downward, but in either case, after reaching the rim of the polar opening, 
the compass no longer functions horizontally, as previously, but vertically. This has been observed by all 
Arctic explorers who reached high latitudes and puzzled them.  
The only explanation is provided on the conception of a hollow earth and polar openings, with the 
magnetic pole and center of gravity in the middle of the Earth's crust, and not in its geometrical center. As 
a result, ocean water on the inside of the crust adheres to its inner surface just as it does on the outside. 
We may calculate the Earth's magnetic pole and center of gravity as a circular line around the polar 
opening, but in its middle, about 400 miles from the Earth's surface.  
In support of the above conception regarding the magnetic pole being situated in the rim of the polar 
opening, Palmer refers to the following facts: Between each magnetic pole around the Earth pass 
magnetic meridians. In contrast with geographical meridians, which measure longitude, the magnetic 
meridians move from east to west and back again. The difference between the geographical meridians, or 
true north and south, and the direction in which a magnetic compass points, or the magnetic meridian of 
the place, is called the declination. The first observation made was in London in 1580 and showed an 
easterly declination of 11 degrees. In 1815 the declination reached 24. 3 degrees westerly maximum. 
This makes a difference of 35. 3 degrees change in 235 years, which is equal to 2,118 miles. Now if we 
make a circle around the Pole, with a radius of 1,059 miles, so that it is 2,118 miles in diameter, this 
would represent the rim of the polar opening along which, in this case, the North Magnetic Pole traveled 
from one point to its diametrically opposite point on the circle, 2,118 miles away, in 235 years.  
This is the reason why the magnetic pole and the geographical pole do not coincide. The geographical 
pole is an extension of the Earth's axis and since this runs through the center of the polar opening, it 
exists in empty space - hence can never be "discovered" by any explorer, since it is not on solid land.  
According to Marshall Gardner, the rim of the polar opening, which is the true magnetic pole, is a large 
circle 1,400 miles in diameter. It is so large that when explorers pass it, as many did, the slope is so 
gradual that they never know they are entering the interior of the Earth, but imagine they are on the 
surface. The magnetic pole can therefore be any point on the circle of the magnetic rim of the polar 
opening. On this point, Palmer says:  
"The focal point, or the actual `pinpoint' of the magnetic pole exists on only one portion of the 
circumference of that circle at a time, and moves progressively around the circle in a definite 
`orbit' that takes some 235 years. This would make the magnetic pole travel approximately 18 
miles per year.  
"Military and civilian flights `over the Pole' can be made daily without producing the slightest 
evidence of the vast hole in the Earth, whose perimeter they circumscribe, no matter what they 
ASSUME in their navigational procedure, due to the original error in assumption that what they 
are passing over is a POINT and not a vast CIRCUMFERENCE which they touch at only one 
place, and then immediately deviate away from its natural curve because they are traveling in a 
straight line."  
If the Earth was a solid sphere, with two poles at the end of its axis, being a magnet, its magnetic poles 
would coincide with its geographical poles. The fact that they do not is inexplicable on the basis of the 
theory that it is a solid sphere. The explanation becomes clear when we assume the existence of polar 
openings, with magnetic poles along the circular rim of these openings, rather than at a fixed point.  
Palmer quotes a significant statement by Russian Arctic explorers who say:  
"Exploration and research have shown that an enormous area of the Earth's surface and 
correspondingly *large realms of the unknown* may be brought within the compass of human 
understanding in a very few years."  
This statement by the Russians sounds remarkably similar to Admiral Byrd's statements about the trans
Arctic region being "the center of the Great Unknown." Could it be that the Russians know about Admiral 
Byrd's discovery of "a vast new territory" beyond the Pole? Palmer comments on this Russian statement 
as follows:  
"This is truly a stupendous sentence. Contemplate what it actually says. It says that not only 
exploration, but also `research' have shown that enormous regions of the Earth's surface AND 
correspondingly (this word is significant) large realms of the UNKNOWN may be brought within 
the compass of UNDERSTANDING of human beings in a very few years. In plain words, in 
addition to areas we can understand and investigate by exploration, there are large realms which 
have to be brought to human understanding by means of research.  
"Yes, large UNKNOWN and even BEYOND PRESENT UNDERSTANDABILITY areas do exist, 
and it `MAY BE' that we will discover and comprehend them in a very few years. In plain words, in 
addition to areas we can understand and investigate by exploration, there are large realms which 
have to be brought to human understanding by means of research.  
"In the next few sentences (of the Russians) we find that there is much `prospect for 
development' in a Polar Basin which, by present concepts, is nothing but frozen ocean. What is it 
that is such a great prospect for development? Ice cubes for our tea? No, there must be very 
much more interesting possibilities, the kind of possibilities that entail large land masses of an 
unknown area yet to be explored and developed."  
Palmer quotes the Russians as saying:  
"As recently as 30 years ago more than half the total area of the Polar Basin was unexplored, and 
16 per cent was still terra incognita only 15 years ago. Today, disappointing as this may be to 
young geographers, the area of blank spots on the map of the Polar Basin has shrunk to almost 
nothing. At the same time, to the regret of the older explorers and the understandable pleasure of 
the younger ones, there are still blank spots elsewhere in the Arctic. The ocean, the air and the 
ionosphere still hold many mysteries."  
Palmer comments on this Russian statement:  
"We learn that the blank spots on the map of the Polar Basin have shrunk to almost nothing. In 
the next breath we find that there are still blank spots ELSEWHERE in the Arctic. Where else? 
The ocean, the air and the ionosphere, they say, still hold many mysteries. Particularly the ocean, 
in the UNKNOWN extent of which exist vast land masses so far not only beyond our ability to 
place on our maps, but beyond our ability to understand.  
"We might say all this is double talk. We might also say secrets are being kept. But we won't The 
fact is that neither is true. It is STRAIGHT talk, the only kind of talk we can expect from anyone 
who is trying to tell something, but cannot because it is, as yet, beyond his understanding. To say 
definitely that there are large land masses inside an area commonly called a `point' is to be faced 
with a challenge to demonstrate and prove. Since this cannot be done, the speaker is left rather 
helpless to do more than hint vaguely at mysteries.  
"It is up to the opponents of the `Mystery Land at the Pole' theory to disprove it, or prove their 
own - and their own has been irrevocably demolished by the scientists and explorers of the two 
greatest nations on earth. What we have presented is not a theory - but the cumulative result of 
hundreds of years of exploration, culminated by the geophysical year [1957] which established 
the information we have given you as the `new concept of geomagnetism in the Polar Basin.'  
"The mystery is at last coming to the fore, and the scoffers are at last silenced. Let us all work 
together to dig out the truth about this mystery that is so engrossing, and so important to 
mankind. What is it that exists at both Poles of the earth, which opens to us new frontiers so vast 
in extent and nature as to be beyond present understanding? It may well be that exploration of 
space is far less important than the exploration of our own mysterious planet, which has now 
suddenly become a `vast realm' far larger than we ever dreamed it to be."  
The theory of a hollow earth with openings at the poles was originated by William Reed in 1906, when he 
first presented it in his book, "Phantom of the Poles." Fourteen years later, in 1920, another American 
writer, Marshall B. Gardner, published a book entitled "A Journey to the Earth's Interior or Have The 
Poles Really Been Discovered?" Apparently he knew nothing about Reed's book, since he did not 
mention it in his bibliography, which was quite extensive and included most of the important books on 
Arctic exploration, which he quoted in support of this theory of a hollow earth.  
Gardner, in his book, presents the same conception o! the Earth's structure as Reed did, claiming that it is 
hollow, with openings at its Poles, but he differs from Reed in that he believes in the existence of a central 
sun which is the source of the aurora borealis. In the diagrams of his book, Gardner depicts the Earth as 
having circular openings at its poles; and the ocean water, which flows through these openings, adheres 
to the solid crust, both above and below, since the center of gravity of the Earth, according to his theory, 
resides in the middle of this solid portion and not in its hollow interior. For this reason, if a ship travels 
through the polar opening and reaches the Earth's interior, it would continue to sail in a reversed position 
on the inside of the crust, just as, at night, we are below the Earth's surface held to it by gravity.  
Gardner's book, which is now out of print and very rare, seeming to have met the fate of other writings on 
this subject by being lost and forgotten and its message unknown to the world at present, has many 
interesting diagrams, some of which we are reproducing. We quote his description of these diagrams:  
1. "Showing the Earth bisected centrally through the polar openings and at right angles to 
the Equator, giving a clear view of the central sun and interior continents and oceans. 
(Reproduced from a working model, made by the author in 1912.)  
2. "The Earth as it would appear if viewed from space, showing the north polar opening to 
the Earth's interior, which is hollow and contains a central sun instead of an ocean of 
liquid lava."  
3. "Diagram showing the Earth as a hollow sphere with its polar openings and central sun. 
The letters at the top and bottom of the diagram indicate the various steps of an 
imaginary journey through the planet's interior. At the point marked `D' we catch our first 
glimpse of the corona of the central sun. At the point marked `E' we can see the central 
sun in its entirety."  
Gravitational pull is strongest around the curve from the exterior to the interior of the Earth. A 150 pound man 
would probably weigh 300 pounds while sailing through the polar opening and around the curve from the 
outside to the inside of the Earth. When he reached the inside he would weigh only 75 pounds. This is 
because less force is needed to hold a body to the inside of a hollow ball in rotation than to hold it to the 
outside, due to centrifugal force.  
William Reed says that gravitational pull is strongest about half way around the curve leading to the 
interior of the Earth, where is the center of gravity, being so strong there that the salt water and fresh 
water of icebergs (which, as we shall see below, come from the Earth's interior) do not mix. The salt water 
remains a few feet below the fresh water. This enables one to obtain fresh drinking water from the Arctic 
Ocean. But how can fresh water be found in the extreme north, where there is only salty ocean water, 
and how can icebergs be formed of fresh water, not salt water? The only explanation, as both Reed and 
Gardner point out, and as we shall see below, is that this fresh water comes from rivers that arose in the 
Earth's warmer interior, which, after they reach the colder surface, suddenly freeze and turn into icebergs, 
which break off and fall into the sea, producing the strange tidal waves that Arctic explorers have 
observed in the far north, and which puzzled them.  
Both Reed and Gardner claim that the temperature in the inside of the Earth is much more uniform than 
on the outside, being warmer in winter and cooler in summer. There is adequate rainfall, more than on the 
surface, but it is never cold enough to snow. It is an ideal subtropical climate, which is free from the 
oppressive heat of the tropics, as well as from the cold weather of the temperate zone. They also claim 
that the north polar opening is larger than the south. They say that there exists a Land of Paradise on the 
other side of the Mammoth Ice Barrier, which must be passed before one reaches a warmer climate in the 
land that lies beyond the Pole, over which Admiral Byrd flew.  
Around the curve at the polar opening is another ring of ice, called the Great Massive Fresh Water Ice 
Pack or Ice Barrier. Here is where icebergs originate. Each winter, this ring of ice is formed from fresh 
water which flows out from the inside of the Earth. During the winter months, billions of tons of free
flowing fresh water, coming from rivers inside the Earth and flowing toward the outside through the polar 
openings, freeze at their mouth and form mountains of fresh water ice, whose presence in this region 
would be inexplicable if the Earth was a solid sphere. In summer time, huge icebergs, miles long, break 
off and float to the outside of the Earth. They are composed of fresh water, when there could exist only 
salt water at the poles. Since this is the case and since all water on the outside of the Earth in these 
regions is salty, the fresh water of which these icebergs are composed must come from its interior.  
Inside the icebergs, the mammoth and other huge tropical animals, believed to be of prehistoric origin 
because never seen on the Earth's surface, have been found in a perfect state of preservation. Some of 
them have been found to have green vegetation in their mouths and stomachs at the time they were 
suddenly frozen. The usual explanation is that these are prehistoric animals which lived in the Arctic 
region at the time when it had a tropical climate, and that the coming of the Ice Age, suddenly converted 
the Arctic from a tropical to a frigid zone and froze them before they had time to flee southward. The great 
ivory deposits from elephants, found in Siberia and islands of the north, are also explained in this way. 
Gardner, however, holds to an entirely different theory, which was supported by the observations of 
Admiral Byrd of a huge mammoth-like creature in the "land beyond the Pole," which he discovered.  
Gardner claims that mammoths are really animals now inhabiting the interior of the Earth, which have 
been carried to the surface by rivers and frozen inside of the ice that formed when the rivers reached the 
surface, forming glaciers and icebergs.  
In Siberia, along the Lena River, there lie exposed on the soil and buried within it, the bones and tusks of 
millions of mammoths and mastadons. The consensus of scientific opinion is that they are prehistoric 
remains, and that the mammoth existed some 20,000 years ago, but was wiped out in the unknown 
catastrophe we now call the last Ice Age.  
It was Schumachoff, a fisherman living in Tongoose, Siberia, who, in 1799, first discovered a complete 
mammoth frozen in a clear block of ice. Hacking it free, he removed its huge tusks and left the carcass of 
fresh meat to be devoured by wolves. Later an expedition was sent to examine it, and today its skeleton 
may be seen in the Museum of Natural History in Leningrad.  
Polar explorers not only mention fauna (animals) but flora (vegetation) in the extreme north. Also many 
animals, like the musk-ox, strangely migrate northward in winter, which it would do only if it reached a 
warmer land there. Repeatedly, Arctic explorers have observed bears heading northward into an area 
where there cannot be food for them if there was no polar opening into a warmer region. Foxes also were 
found north of the 80th parallel heading north, obviously well fed. Without exception, Arctic explorers 
agree that, strangely, the further north one goes, after a certain latitude, the warmer it gets.  
Invariably, a north wind brings warmer weather. Coniferous trees were found drifting ashore, coming from 
the far north. Butterflies and bees were found in the far north, and even mosquitoes, but they are not 
found hundreds of miles to the south and not until Canadian and Alaskan climate areas conducive to such 
insect life are reached.  
Unknown varieties of flowers were also found in the extreme north. Birds resembling snipe, but unlike any 
known species of bird, were seen to come from the north, and to return there. Hare are plentiful in a far 
northern area where no vegetation grows but where vegetable matter is found in drifting debris from the 
more northern open waters.  
Eskimo tribes have left unmistakable traces of their migration by their temporary camps, always 
advancing northward Southern Eskimos speak of tribes that live in the far north. They hold the belief that 
their ancestors came from a land of paradise in the extreme north.  
In New Zealand and lower South America are found identical fauna and flora which could not have 
migrated from one of these places to the other. The only explanation is that they came from a common 
motherland - the Antarctic continent. Yet how could they come from there if it is a frozen waste where 
only penguins seem able to survive? "Only Admiral Byrd's 'mystery land' can account for these 
inexplicable facts and migrations," concludes Palmer.  
Many Arctic explorers, after passing the ring of ice around the curve leading to the Earth's interior, 
continued straight north until they crossed this ice barrier. Many entered the opening leading to the 
interior but did not know it and thought they were still on the outer surface. The reason for this is that the 
opening is so large that one cannot know the difference except that the sun rises later and sets sooner, 
its rays being cut off by the rim of the polar opening after one enters it. This has been observed by all 
Arctic explorers who went sufficiently north. The polar opening is believed by Gardner to be 1,400 miles in 
diameter.  
Once they were inside the Earth, explorers entered a New World where they found things opposite to 
what they expected. The needle of the compass pointed vertically instead of horizontally as it did before, 
due to the fact that the true magnetic pole is located in the middle of the curve leading from the outside to 
the inside of the earth. The further north they went, the warmer it became. The ice of Arctic regions 
further south disappeared and was replaced by open sea (Admiral Byrd found a total absence of ice and 
snow in the "land beyond the Pole" over which he passed for 1,700 miles.)  
As explorers sailed further north, the north winds became warmer and warmer. The weather was mild and 
pleasant. Often the dust, carried by the wind, was unbearable. Some explorers, like Nansen, had to turn 
back due to the dust. Where could this dust come from in the extreme north, a land of ice and ocean? 
Reed and Gardner explain the origin of this dust, often noticed by Arctic explorers, to volcanoes inside the 
polar opening leading to the interior of the Earth. It would be impossible to expect volcanoes in the Arctic, 
except if they were inside the polar opening.  
On August 3, 1894, Dr. Fritjof-Nansen, an Arctic explorer, in the far north, was surprised at the warm 
weather there and the fox tracks he found. He was probably inside the polar opening then. His compass 
utterly failed to work, so that he did not know where he was. The further into the opening he went, the 
warmer it became. It he went still further he would have seen tropical birds, as other explorers did, as well 
as other animals not seen on the Earth's surface, as the mammoth that Admiral Byrd observed when he 
looked down from his plane, during his 1,700 mile flight over this mysterious ice-free Arctic area.  
Ray Palmer writes:  
"The musk-ox, contrary to expectations, migrates north in the wintertime. Repeatedly, Arctic 
explorers have observed bears heading north into an area where there cannot be food for them. 
Foxes also are found north of the 80th parallel, heading north, obviously well fed. Without 
exception, Arctic explorers agree that the further north one goes, the warmer it gets. Invariably a 
north wind brings warmer weather. Coniferous trees drift ashore from out of the north. Butterflies 
and bees are found in the far north, but never hundreds of miles further south; not until Canadian 
and Alaskan climate areas conducive to such insect life are reached.  
"Unknown varieties of flowers are found. Birds resembling snipe, but unlike any known species of 
bird, come out of the north, and return there. Hare are plentiful in an area where no vegetation 
ever grows, but where vegetation appears as drifting debris from the northern open water. 
Eskimo tribes, migrating northward, have left unmistakable traces of their migration in their 
temporary camps, always advancing northward. Southern Eskimos themselves speak of tribes 
that live in the far north. The Ross gull, common at Point Barrow, migrates in October toward the 
North. Only Admiral Byrd's 'mystery land' can account for these inexplicable facts and 
migrations."  
The Scandinavian legend of a land of paradise in the far north, known as "Ultima Thule," commonly 
confused with Greenland, is significant because, centuries before Admiral Byrd's flight, the existence of 
such an ice-free land in the northern limits of the Earth was anticipated.  
Palmer writes:  
"The Scandinavian legend of a wonderful land far to the north called "Ultima Thule" (commonly 
confused with Greenland) is significant when studied in detail, because of its remarkable 
resemblance to the kind of land seen by Byrd, and its remarkable far north location. To assume 
that Ultima Thule is Greenland is to come face to lace with the contradiction of the Greenland Ice 
Cap, which fills the entire Greenland basin to the depth of 10,000 feet. Is Admiral Byrd's land of 
mystery, the center of the great unknown, the same as the Ultima Thule of the Scandinavian 
legends?  
"There are mysteries concerning the Antarctic also. Perhaps the greatest is the highly technical 
one of biology itself; for on the New Zealand and South American land masses are identical fauna 
and flora which could not have migrated from one to the other, but rather are believed to have 
come from a common motherland. That motherland is believed to be the Antarctic Continent. But 
on a more popular level is the case of the sailing vessel `Gladys,' captained by F. B. Hatfield in 
1893. The ship was completely surrounded by icebergs at 43 degrees south and 33 degrees 
west. At this latitude an iceberg was observed which bore a large quantity of sand and earth, and 
which revealed a beaten track, a place of refuge formed in a sheltered nook, and the bodies of 
five dead men who lay on different parts of the berg. Bad weather prevented any attempts at 
further investigation.  
"An unanimous consensus of opinion among scientists is that one thing peculiar to the Antarctic 
is that there are no human tribes living upon it. Also investigation showed that no vessel was lost 
in the Antarctic at the time, so that these men could not be shipwrecked sailors. Could it be that 
these men who died on the berg came from `that mysterious land beyond the South Pole' 
discovered by the Byrd expedition? Had they ventured out of their warm, habitable land and lost 
their way along the ice shelf, finally to be drifted to their deaths at sea on a portion o! it, broken 
away to become an iceberg while they were on it?"  
Another American writer on the subject of the Earth being hollow, named Theodore Fitch, referring to the 
ice barriers that must be crossed before one can enter the polar openings leading to the Earth's interior, 
asks: "Why can't we fly over these huge ice barriers or make roads and travel overland over them to the 
inside of the Earth?" He sees no reason why this cannot be done, even though he, like most other 
Americans, was in total ignorance of the fact that Admiral Byrd flew over these ice barriers some years 
before, and had entered this new territory. Fitch believes that once these facts are made public, every 
large nation would try to establish a foothold in this New World, whose land area is greater than that on 
the Earth's surface and which is free from radioactive fallout to poison its soil and foods.  
This New World could more easily be reached than the moon and is of much more importance to us, 
since it provides ideal conditions for human life, with a better climate than exists on the surface. Fitch 
calls it a Land of Paradise, and believes it is the true geographical location of Paradise, a wonderful land 
referred to in the religious writings of all peoples.  
It seems that the Russians are now doing what Fitch suggested by sending fleets of icebreakers, some 
atomic-powered, to explore the far north The next step will be for the Russians to repeat Admiral Byrd's 
flight through the polar opening to the "land beyond the Pole."  
Fitch's book is entitled "Our Paradise Inside the Earth." He based it on the works of Reed and Gardner. 
He mentioned that during the last century a sea captain, who traveled due north, curved inward into the 
interior of the Earth, though he thought he was heading toward the North Pole.  
Fitch writes:  
"Both William Reed and Marshall Gardner declare that there must be a land of paradise on the 
other side of the mammoth ice barrier. Both men are of the opinion that a race of little brown 
people live in the interior of the Earth. It is possible that the Eskimos descended from these 
people.  
"Most explorers have sailed straight north until they went around the 800 mile curve at the polar 
opening. Not one of them knew they were on the inside of the Earth. These explorers found 
things exactly opposite from what they expected. As they sailed north, the north winds became 
warmer and warmer. Except for strong dusty warm winds once in a while, the weather was mild 
and pleasant. Except for icebergs from the interior, the sea was open and sailing good (Reed and 
Gardner explain this strange dust found in the very far north and which darkens the snow on 
which it falls, as we have pointed out above, as coming from active volcanoes inside the polar 
opening. This seems to be the only possible explanation - Author.)  
"They saw countless square miles of good land. The further north they went, the more grass, 
flowers, bushes, trees and other green vegetation they saw. One explorer wrote that his men 
gathered eight different kinds of flowers. They also reported that they saw sloping hills covered 
with green vegetation. (These observations were confirmed by Admiral Byrd, who, during his 
1,700 mile flight over this iceless territory, saw trees, vegetation, mountains, lakes and animal life. - Author.)  
"Another writer said he saw all kinds of warm weather animals and millions of tropical birds. They 
were so thick that a blind man could bring down one or more birds with one shot. The lovely 
scenery of both sky and land was more magnificent than anything ever seen on the exterior of the 
Earth. Each explorer wrote about the majesty of the aurora borealis or Northern Lights. It is 
claimed that the Northern Lights really result from the light of the central sun inside the Earth 
shining through the opening at the North Pole. "  
Fitch points out that the hollow interior of the earth has a land area larger than the outer surface because 
while 75 per cent of the earth's surface is covered with water, leaving only 55 million square miles of land 
surface, the total surface of the earth is 197 million square miles. Fitch claims that there are no oceans in 
the interior comparable in size with those on the surface, and that there is three times as much land 
inside the earth as on the outside, so that in spite of the smaller circumference and less total area of the 
interior, its land area is greater.  
Fitch says that it has a better and healthier climate than we have on the surface, without cold winters, 
hurricanes, earthquakes, electric storms, cyclones, radioactive fallout, nefarious cosmic rays, radioactive 
solar radiations, soil erosion from excessive rainfall and other disadvantages. It has an ideal subtropical 
climate.  
Another American writer who was much influenced by the theories of Reed and Gardner is William L. 
Blessing who published a booklet on the subject in which he reproduced their diagrams of the Earth's 
structure. Blessing wrote:  
"The Earth is not a true sphere. It is flat at the poles, or, I should say, it begins to flatten out at the 
poles. The pole is simply the outer rim of a magnetic circle, and at this point the magnetic needle 
of the compass points down. As the earth turns on its axis, the motion is gyroscopic. The outer 
gyroscopic pole is the magnetic rim of a circle. Beyond the rim the Earth flattens and slopes 
gradually like a canyon into the interior. The true pole in the exact center of the cone is 
perpendicular, for this point is the exact center of the opening or hollow into the Earth's interior.  
"The old idea that the Earth was once a solid or molten mass and that at the center is composed 
of molten iron must be discarded. Since the shell of the Earth is about 800 miles thick, that would 
mean that the molten iron core would be more than 7,OOO miles in diameter and 21,000 miles in 
circumference. Impossible.  
"Likewise, the old idea that the deeper into the Earth the hotter it becomes must also be 
discarded. It is radium and radioactivity that produce the heat in the earth. All surface rocks 
contain minute particles of radium."  
One of the most puzzling facts of Arctic exploration is that while the area is oceanic, covered with water, 
which is variously frozen over or partially open, depending on the time of the year, many explorers 
remarked, however, paradoxically, that the open water exists in greater measure at the points nearest to 
the Pole, while further south there is more ice. In fact, some explorers found it very hot going at times, 
and were forced to shed their Arctic clothing. There is even one record of an encounter with naked 
Eskimos. In fact, the origin of the Eskimo race is believed to be in the extreme north, from where they 
migrated southward to their present habitat. Their original more northern home was probably warmer than 
their present more southern one.  
It is strange that Reed's and Gardner's books, which presented such an epoch-making geographical 
theory, which they supported by the evidence of Arctic exploration during the past century - a theory 
comparable in importance to the theory that the Earth is round, when it was first proposed - should have 
been so disregarded (or were they suppressed?), so that today they are unavailable and very rare. (It was 
the author's good fortune to secure a copy of Gardner's book from a bookdealer handling rare books.) Is it 
possible that these books shared the fate of the news about Admiral Byrd's discoveries, Giannini's book 
and Palmer's magazine announcing Byrd's confirmation of Reed's and Gardner's theory of a hollow Earth 
with openings at the poles ? (A correspondent of the author's, living in Washington, D.C., wrote that he 
happened to look through the books in the library of a high official of the Air Force, with whom he had 
business, and, much to his surprise, he saw a copy of Gardner's book.)  
Evidently Gardner's theory of a hollow Earth is not unknown to government and military leaders in view of 
Admiral Byrd having confirmed it; but it is hushed up and not openly discussed.  
Fitch asks those who do not believe that the Earth is hollow, with openings at its poles, to answer the 
following questions:  
"Can you produce proof that any explorer reached the so-called North or South Pole ?  
"If there is no such thing as 83 to 90 degrees latitude ON the Earth, then how can one reach or fly 
over the North Pole?  
"If the Earth is not hollow, then why does the north wind in the Arctic get warmer as one sails 
north beyond 70 degrees latitude?  
"Why are there warm northerly winds and an open sea for hundreds of miles north of 82 degrees 
latitude ?  
"After 82 degrees latitude is reached, why is the needle of a compass always agitated, restless 
and balky?  
"If the Earth is not hollow, then why do the warm northerly winds mentioned above carry more 
dust than any wind on earth?  
"If no rivers are flowing from the inside to the outside, then why are all ice-bergs composed of 
fresh water?  
"Why does one find tropical seeds, plants and trees floating in the fresh water of these icebergs?  
"If not all the fresh water icebergs positively do not come from any place ON earth, as would be 
impossible unless we assume the existence of rivers flowing from the inside to the outside, then 
where do they come from?  
"If the inside of the Earth is not warm, why do millions of tropical birds and animals go further 
north in the winter time?  
"Why does the wind from the north carry more pollen and blossoms than any wind on the 
exterior?  
"If it is not hollow and warm inside the Earth, then why does colored pollen color the snow for 
thousands of square miles?  
"Could it be that pollen from millions of acres and colored flowers causes the snow to be red, 
pink, yellow, blue, etc.?"  
William Reed's Book, "Phantom of the Poles"  
Presenting Scientific Evidence, Based on Arctic Exploration, to Prove for the First Time that the Earth is 
Hollow With Openings at the Poles.  
In 1906 appeared the first book to offer scientific proof that old geographical conceptions about the earth's 
structure are false and that the earth, instead of being a solid sphere, as commonly assumed, is really 
hollow, with openings at the poles. Were this a book created from the author's imagination, it might be 
disregarded as a work of science fiction - but since the book is based on an extensive bibliography 
representing the reports of Arctic explorers, it must be taken more seriously.  
This book was published in New York and written by William Reed. Its title was "The Phantom of the 
Poles," and claimed the Poles were never discovered because they do not exist. Where the North and 
South Poles are supposed to be located, Reed claims are huge polar openings in which the Poles are in 
the center, for which reason they can never be reached by any explorer.  
Reed's book was written fourteen years before that of Marshall Gardner, who claimed that not only was 
the earth hollow but that there was a central sun at its center. Reed, however, did not include this central 
sun in his theory, but believed that the higher temperature in the region of the Poles is due to burning 
volcanoes at the polar openings, which are the origin of the dust that Arctic explorers noticed there. We 
now quote from Reed's book. On page 282 he says:  
"The earth is either hollow or it is not. What proof have we that it is not hollow? None at all that is 
positive and circumstantial. On the contrary, everything points to its being hollow. If it be so, and if 
there are burning volcanoes in the interior, would you not see great lights reflected on the 
icebergs and clouds, just as other great fires reflect the light? Would not great clouds of smoke 
and dust be seen - the same as from any other burning volcano? That is what all the explorers 
have witnessed - low dark clouds rising from the ocean, or at the edge of the ice. Nansen (an 
Arctic explorer) said: `Let us go home: What have we here to stay for? Nothing but dust, dust, 
dust!'  
"Where could such dust come from - so bad that it was one of the great annoyances in the heart 
of the Arctic Ocean, if it did not come from an exploding, burning volcano (in the polar opening) ?  
"If the earth be hollow, would it not be warmer in winter and cooler in summer (as we enter the 
polar opening)? Arctic explorers say that a north wind in winter raises the temperature, while a 
south wind lowers it. As an opposite fact, in summer a south wind raises the temperature, while 
north wind lowers it. That is just what would occur if the winds come from the interior of the earth. 
Again, if the earth is hollow, it could not be round, in as much as the opening would take from its 
roundness in proportion to the size of the opening. All now agree that the earth flattens at the 
poles. Also it is warmer the further one goes north or south. Why is this the case?  
"There is but one answer, and that is that the earth is hollow, and is warmer in the interior than on 
the exterior. As the wind passes out in the winter, it warms the atmosphere. If the earth is solid, 
neither science nor reason can furnish any rational theory why it should be warmer as one 
passes north. Every known theory is against such a conclusion. As soon as you adopt the belief 
that the earth is hollow, perplexing questions will be easily solved, the mind will be satisfied, and 
the triumph of sensible reasoning will come as a delight never to be forgotten.  
"This volume is not written to entertain those who read for amusement, but to establish and 
prove, as far as proof can be established and proved, certain mighty truths hitherto not 
comprehended. One key will unlock all these mysteries. The problems to be solved are the 
following:  
" 1. Why is the earth flattened at the poles? 
" 2. Why have the poles never been reached? 
" 3. Why is the sun invisible so long in winter near the farthest points north or south? 
" 4. What causes the Aurora Borealis? 
" 5. Where are the icebergs formed and how? 
" 6. What produces the many tidal waves in the Arctic? 
" 7. Why do meteors fall more frequently near the Poles and from where do they come? 
" 8. What causes the great ice pressure in the Arctic Ocean during still tide and calm weather? 
" 9. Why is there colored snow in the Arctic region? 
"10. Why is it warmer near the Poles than 600 to 1,000 miles away from them? 
"11. Why is ice in the Arctic Ocean frequently filled with rock, gravel, sand, etc. ? 
"12. Why does the compass refuse to work near the Poles?  
"Should I be able to give reasonable answers to the above questions - answers that will satisfy 
any intelligent person - the public will admit, I believe, that I have fulfilled my task.  
"I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the brave men who have spent their time, comfort 
and, in many cases, have given their lives, so that all may know the truth and geography of this 
wonderful planet Through their reports I am able to prove my theory that the earth is not only 
hollow, but suitable in its interior to sustain human life with as little discomfort as on its exterior, 
and can be made accessible to mankind with one-fourth the outlay of money, time and life that it 
costs to build the subway in New York City. The number of people who can settle in this new 
world (if not already occupied) will be billions.  
"I claim that the earth is not only hollow, but that all, or nearly all, of the explorers who spent 
much of their time past the rim of the polar opening have had a look into the interior of the earth. 
When Lieutenant Greely was beholding the mock sun at 120 degrees latitude, he was looking into 
our sister world in the earth's interior."  
Reed answers the above questions as follows:  
"1. Why is the earth flattened at the Poles? As the earth is hollow, it could not be round, is the 
answer. The opening to the interior would detract from its roundness in proportion to the size of 
the opening.  
" 2. Why have the Poles never been reached? Because no Poles exist in the sense usually 
understood.  
" 3. Why does the sun not appear for so long a time in winter near the supposed Poles? Because 
during the winter the sun strikes the earth obliquely near the Poles. As one passes over the rim of 
the polar opening and approaches the earth's interior, one sinks inward into the hollow interior. 
The sun's rays are in this way cut off, and do not appear again until they strike that part of the 
earth more directly and shine down into the opening. This explains why nights are so long in the 
far north.  
"4. Assuming that the earth is hollow, the interior should be warmer. We will furnish evidence to 
prove that it is warmer. The ones who have explored the furthest north will be the best judges.  
"5. Meteors are constantly falling near the supposed poles. Why? If the earth be solid, no one can 
answer this question. If the earth is hollow, it is easily answered. Some volcano is in eruption in 
the interior of the earth, and from it rocks are thrown into the air. Vast quantities of dust are 
constantly found in the Arctic Ocean. What causes this dust? The volcanic eruptions. The dust 
has been analyzed and found to consist of carbon and iron, which must come from some volcano 
in the polar opening.  
" 6. What produces the aurora borealis? It is a reflection of a fire within the interior of the earth. 
(According to Marshall B. Gardner, this fire is the central sun, whose rays project through the 
polar opening on the night sky, and the changing forms and streamers of the aurora borealis are 
due to passing clouds cutting off its rays.)  
" 7. Where are the icebergs formed? And how? The answer is as follows: In the interior of the 
earth, where it is warm, rivers flow to the surface through the polar opening. When they reach the 
outside, in the Arctic Circle, where it is very cold, the mouth of the rivers freezes forming icebergs. 
This continues for months, until, due to the warmer weather in summer and the warmth from the 
earth, the icebergs are thawed loose and are washed into the ocean. (The fact that icebergs are 
formed from fresh water, not salty ocean water, proves this theory.)  
" 8. What causes tidal waves in the Arctic? They are started by icebergs leaving the place where 
they are formed, and plunging into the ocean. This answer is given because nothing else can 
produce even a fraction of the commotion of a monster iceberg when it plunges into the sea.  
"9. What causes colored snow in the Arctic region? There are two causes. The red, green and 
yellow snow are caused by a vegetable matter permeating the air with such density that when it 
falls with the snow it colors it. This vegetable matter is supposed to be the blossom or pollen of a 
plant. As it does not grow on earth, one can naturally believe that it grows in the interior and came 
out through the polar opening. Black snow, often noticed, is caused by black dust, consisting of 
carbon and iron, and comes from a burning volcano. As no burning volcano is near the Arctic 
Ocean, it must be in the interior of the earth.  
"10. Why is the ice filled with rock, gravel and sand? These substances came from an exploding 
volcano near where the iceberg is formed.  
"By treating the earth as hollow, we have the solution of all the great mysteries - such as tidal 
waves, ice pressures, colored snow, open Arctic Ocean, warmer north, icebergs, flattening of the 
earth at the Poles, and why the Poles have not been found, the supernatural giving way to the 
natural, as it always does with understanding and relief comes to mind and body.  
"The earth is hollow. The Poles so long sought are but phantoms. There are openings at the 
northern and southern extremities. In the interior are vast continents, oceans, mountains and 
rivers. Vegetable and animal life are evident in this new world, and it is probably peopled by races 
yet unknown to dwellers upon the earth's exterior."  
In support of his theory of a hollow earth, Reed offers the following evidence:  
LONG ABSENCE OF SUNLIGHT DURING LONG ARCTIC WINTERS. Reed summarizes the 
experience of Arctic explorers who very quickly passed from the region of sunshine into the region of long 
nights, or the opposite. In the far north the sun is absent for abnormally long periods of time, which could 
not be the case if the earth was round and solid, or even just slightly flattened at the poles. The only 
explanation is that these explorers entered into the opening at the North Pole; and as they entered, the 
sun's rays were cut off from them, to reappear only when it was high enough in the sky to shine in.  
ABNORMAL WORKlNG OF THE COMPASS IN THE FAR NORTH. This was observed by all explorers 
who reached very far north. This strange action of the compass is exactly what should be the case if the 
earth is hollow and if they entered into the polar opening. In his book Reed has a drawing of a cross
section of the polar opening with ships sailing both in and out. When the ship enters the polar opening, 
the needle of the compass assumes a vertical position, instead of horizontal, as it does on top of the 
earth's surface. This is due to entering the polar opening. This is exactly what explorers found to occur in 
the far north. They found that as they approached the pole, the needle of the compass becomes restless, 
and when one goes far enough north, assumes a vertical position, indicating that one has then entered 
the polar opening, as occurred with Nansen and others.  
PASSING OVER THE RIM OF THE POLAR OPENING INTO THE EARTH'S INTERIOR - Reed says on 
this subject:  
"Whenever the explorers pass into the interior, they meet such different conditions that they are 
puzzled to account for them. Therefore it is no wonder that they call it a strange land. Everyone 
who has spent considerable time in the Arctic or Antarctic Circles has met with conditions 
unexplainable according to the theory that the earth is round and solid - but which find an easy 
explanation according to the theory that it is hollow with openings at the poles. Greely's 
description of passing around the curve into the polar opening is exceedingly good and clear. He 
says:  
"`The deep interest with which we had hitherto pursued our journey was now greatly intensified. 
The eye of civilized man had never seen, or his feet trodden, the ground over which we were 
traveling. A strong, earnest desire to press forward at our best speed seized us all. As we neared 
each projecting spur of the lands ahead, our eagerness to see what was beyond became so 
intense at times as to be painful. Each point we reached brought a new landscape in sight, and 
always in advance was a point which cut off a portion of the horizon and caused a certain 
disappointment.'  
"If Greely and his companions were entering into the interior of the earth, they would certainly find 
that the earth has a greater curve near the poles than at any other place; and as they passed 
over and around the farthest point north, each projection reached would be followed by another 
which always seemed to take in part of the horizon. This is just what happened."  
ROCKS IN ICEBERGS, COLORED SNOW, POLLEN AND DUST IN THE FAR NORTH. On this subject 
Reed says:  
"When it can be shown that conditions are such that no Arctic icebergs (composed of fresh water) 
can be formed in the far north on the earth's outer surface, they must be formed in the interior. If 
the material that produces colored snow is a vegetable matter (which the analysis shows), and is 
supposed to be a blossom or the pollen of a plant, when none such grows in the vicinity of the 
Arctic Ocean, then it must grow in the interior of the earth; for if it grows elsewhere on earth, then 
the snow would be colored in other locations as well (as it is in the vicinity of the polar opening), 
which does not seem to be the case.  
"The dust, so annoying in the Arctic Ocean, is also produced by volcanic eruptions. Being light, it 
is carried far away by the wind, and when it falls on ships, it is disagreeable. When it falls on the 
snow it produces black snow. When analyzed it is found to consist of carbon and iron, supposed 
to come from a burning volcano. Where is that volcano? No record or account of any near the 
North Pole is found; and if it be elsewhere, why does the dust fall in the Arctic Ocean?  
"Various explorers report large rocks and boulders on and imbedded in the icebergs. These 
boulders are either cast there by the exploding volcano or they are scraped up as the bergs slide 
down the rivers in the interior of the earth. The dust in the Arctic is so heavy that it floats in great 
clouds. It colors the snow black; and it falls on ships in such abundance that it is a source of 
irritation. Nansen declares that it was one of his principal reasons for wanting to go home. If the 
earth is solid, there is no answer to this perplexing problem. But if the earth be hollow, the 
eruptions of volcanos in the interior can easily account for the dust."  
OPEN WATER AT THE FARTHEST POINT NORTH. "It is claimed by many that the Arctic Ocean is a 
frozen body of water. Although it always contains large bodies of drift-ice and icebergs, it is not frozen 
over. The student of Arctic travels will invariably find that explorers were turned back by open water, and 
many instances are cited where they came near being carried out to sea and lost. What I wish to present 
to the reader, however, is the proof that the Arctic Ocean is an open body of water, abounding with game 
of all kinds, and the farther one advances, the warmer it will be found. There are many cases of clouds of 
dust and smoke. Many fogs are reported in winter time. If the earth were solid, and the ocean extended to 
the Pole, or connected with land surrounding the Pole, there could be nothing to produce that fog. It is 
caused by the warm air coming from the interior of the earth.  
"Kane (an Arctic explorer) writes: `Some circumstances which he (McGary) reports seems to 
point to the existence of a north water all the year round; and the frequent water-skies, fogs, etc., 
that we have seen to the southwest during the winter, go to confirm the fact.'  
"There are many pages of reports (in the writings of Arctic explorers) of this open sea to the far 
north. Greely speaks of open water the year round. If there be open water the year round at the 
farthest point north, can any good reason be assigned why all have failed to reach the Pole? The 
men who spent their time, comfort and, in several cases, their lives, were men more than anxious 
to succeed, yet, strangely, all failed. Was this because the weather got warmer and they found 
the game more plentiful? No, it was because there is no such place."  
Nansen, who probably went farther north than any other explorer, remarks in his book that it was a 
strange feeling to be sailing in the dark night to unknown lands, over an open rolling sea, where no ship 
had ever been before, and remarks how mild the climate was for September. The farther north he went, 
the less and less ice he saw. He remarked,  
"There is always the same dark sky ahead, which means open sea. They little think at home in 
Norway that we are sailing straight to the Pole in clear water. I shouldn't have believed it myself if 
anyone should have predicted it two weeks ago, but it is true. Is this not a dream?"  
Three weeks later he mentions that the water was still open and not frozen. He remarks:  
"As far as the eye can see from the crow's nest with the small field glass, there is no end to the 
open water." Between September 6th and 2lst, he found no ice as he traveled northward in a very 
high latitude.  
Reed comments:  
"After all the foregoing evidence, is it possible that anyone can believe that the respective oceans 
(in the far north) are frozen bodies of water? If they do not believe that these oceans are frozen, 
why do the explorers fail to reach the Poles - if there be such places?"  
WHY IT IS WARMER NEAR THE POLES.  
"One of the principal proofs that the earth is hollow is that it is warmer near the Poles. If it can be 
shown by quoting those who made the farthest advance toward the supposed Poles, that it is 
warmer, that vegetation shows more life, that game is more plentiful than farther south, then we 
have a reasonable right to claim that the heat comes from the interior of the earth, as that seems 
to be the only place from which it could come.  
"In `Captain Hall's Last Trip,' we read: `We find this a much warmer country than we expected, 
bare of snow and ice. We have found that the country abounds with life, and with seals, game, 
geese, ducks, musk-cattle, rabbits, wolves, foxes, bears, partridges, lemmings, etc. (He is 
speaking of the far north.)  
"Nansen draws special attention to the warmth and says, `We must almost imagine ourselves at 
home.' This was at one of the farthest points north reached by anyone, and yet the weather was 
mild and pleasant.  
"It will be observed that these extremely strong winds from the interior of the earth not only raise 
the temperature considerably in the vicinity of the Arctic Ocean, but affect it very materially four 
hundred and fifty miles away. Nothing could raise the temperature in such a manner, except a 
storm coming from the interior of the earth.  
"Greely states: `Surely this presence of birds and flowers and beasts was a greeting on nature's 
part to our new home.' Does that sound as if he had expected to find these things there, or that 
their presence was an everyday occurrence? No. It was written in a tone of surprise. From what 
place had these birds and game come? South of them for miles, the earth was covered with 
perpetual snow - in many locations thousands of feet deep. They are found in that location in 
summer; and as it is warmer farther north, they would not be likely to go to a colder climate in 
winter. They seem to pass into the interior of the earth.  
"The mutton-birds of Australia leave that continent in September, and no one has ever been able 
to find out where they go. My theory is that they pass into the interior of the earth via the South 
Pole. "  
Reed points out that many animals inhabiting the far north, as the musk-ox, go north in winter in order to 
reach a warmer climate. He remarks:  
"Since it becomes warmer as they go north, instinct tells them not to go south in winter. And if 
they do not go south, they must go into the interior of the earth."  
Another animal that goes north in winter is the auk. Schwatka saw a flock of four million auks, which 
darken the sky, going north as winter approached. Nansen says of the extreme north that a land which 
teems with bears, auks and black guillemots "must be a Canaan, flowing with milk and honey."  
Reed continues:  
WHAT PRODUCES COLORED SNOW IN THE ARCTIC ?  
"Why is the snow colored in the Arctic regions? The snow has been analyzed and the red, green 
and yellow have been found to contain vegetable matter, presumably a flower, or the pollen of a 
plant. From where did it come? A flower that produced pollen sufficient to permeate the air with 
such density that it colored the snow, which require a vast territory - millions of acres - to grow it. 
Where is that to be found? It must be near the North Pole, for, if it grew elsewhere, colored snow 
would be found at other locations, and not be confined to the Arctic regions. As no such flowering 
plant is known on the earth's surface, we must look elsewhere.  
"The interior of the earth is the only spot that will furnish us with an answer to the question. As the 
colors fall at different seasons, we may presume that the flowers mature at these seasons. It is 
also easy to find out where the black snow, frequently mentioned by the explorers, comes from. It 
comes out of an exploding volcano - of the kind that covered Nansen's ship with dust. All 
unexplained questions could be easily answered if one would believe that the earth is hollow. It is 
impossible to answer them under any other theory.  
"Kane, in his first volume, page 44, says: `We passed the Crimson Cliffs at Sir John Ross in the 
forenoon of August 5th. The patches of red snow from which they derive their name could be 
seen clearly at the distance of ten miles from the coast. It had a fine deep rose hue.'  
"Kane speaks of the red snow as if it had a regular season in which to appear - as he says, `if the 
snowy surface were more diffused, as it is no doubt earlier in the season.' In another place he 
speaks of the red snow being two weeks later than usual. Now taking the fact into account that 
the material that colors the snow is a vegetable matter, supposed to be the blossom or pollen of a 
plant, and that no such plant grows on earth, where does it come from? It must grow in the 
interior of the earth. "  
WHERE AND HOW ARE ICEBERGS FORMED: Since icebergs are formed from fresh water, not salty 
ocean water, they could not be formed from the Arctic Ocean, but by some fresh body of water. However 
there is no fresh body of water in the polar region. Reed's theory is that icebergs are formed from rivers 
coming from the interior of the earth and flowing toward the surface through the polar opening. When they 
reach the cold exterior they freeze, while more water passes over the frozen part and freezes too, forming 
mountains of ice. With the coming of summer, these big masses of ice are thawed loose and break off, 
falling into the sea and producing the mysterious tidal waves observed in the far north. Reed says:  
"It is simply out of the question for an iceberg to form in any location yet discovered. On the other 
hand, the interior of the earth - back from the mouth of rivers or canyons - being warmer, is just 
suited for the formation of icebergs. The mouth freezes first, and the river, continuing to flow to 
the ocean, overflows the mouth, and freezes for months, until spring. As the warm weather of 
summer advances, and, owing to the warmth of the earth, the bergs are thawed loose, and water 
from the rains in the interior rushes up, and they are shoved into the ocean, and tidal waves 
started.  
"Note the difference. On the outside of the earth, the whole length of a stream is frozen, and the 
farther inland the harder the freezing, while in the interior of the earth (at the polar opening) only 
the mouth is frozen. In the interior of the earth, there is not only plenty of water to produce 
icebergs, but plenty to shove them into the ocean.  
"For the last three hundred years a fairly steady stream of explorers have been trying to reach the 
Pole - Arctic and Antarctic - and no one has ever seen an iceberg leaving its original location and 
plunging into the ocean. Isn't it strange that no one thought of asking about their place of origin?"  
In support of the theory that icebergs, made from fresh water, cannot be formed on the outside of the 
earth and must come from fresh water rivers in its interior, Reed quotes Bernacchi who, writing on his 
observations in the Antarctic, says:  
"There was less than two inches of rainfall in eleven and one-half months, and while it snowed 
quite frequently, it never fell to any great depth. Under such conditions, where would materials be 
found to produce an iceberg? Yet the greatest one on earth is there - one so large that it is called 
the Great Ice Barrier, rather than an iceberg - being over four hundred miles long and fifty miles 
wide. It is grounded in two thousand one hundred feet of water, and extends from eighty to two 
hundred feet above water." Reed comments:  
"Now it would be impossible for this iceberg to form in a country having practically no rain or 
snow. As icebergs are made from frozen water, and there is no water to freeze, it evidently was 
formed at some place other than where it now is. The iceberg itself, being of fresh water, lies in 
an ocean of salt water. "How do I know that the great ice barrier came from the interior of the 
earth? Or from the kind of river described? First, it could not come from the exterior of the earth, 
since icebergs are not formed there. That river must have been 2,500 feet deep, fifty miles across 
and from four to five hundred miles long, for these are the present dimensions of the iceberg. The 
river had to be straight or the iceberg could not pass out without breaking. It passed through a 
comparatively level country because the surface is still flat.  
"Another proof that the interior of the earth is level near the Antarctic entrance is that many of the 
icebergs found in the Antarctic are long and slim. They are called `ice tongues,' which indicates 
that they came out of rivers running nearly on a level. The icebergs found in the Arctic, on the 
other hand, are more chunky, indicating that they come from a more mountainous country, where 
the fall of streams is more abrupt, causing the icebergs to be shorter and thicker.  
"When Bernacchi was voyaging in the Autarctic, he wrote: `During the next two days we passed 
some thousands of icebergs, as many as ninety being counted from the bridge at one time. There 
was very little variety of form among them, all being very large and bounded by perpendicular 
cliffs. There was a large quantity of fresh water at the surface, derived from the number of 
icebergs.'  
"How does this account accord with your notions of how icebergs are formed in a country where 
Bernacchi reports less than two inches of rainfall in the whole year, and but small quantities of 
snow? Where is the water to come from that will produce such great quantities of icebergs 
averaging a thousand feet in thickness, and many of them several miles long? Those icebergs 
were on their way north - never to return - yet the ocean will always be filled with them, as others 
will come from the place where they came.  
"Where is that place? There is no rain or melted snow to furnish the water to freeze into an 
iceberg. Icebergs can come from only one place - the INTERIOR of the earth.  
TIDAL WAVES. Reed here repeats the description of Arctic tidal waves by various explorers. They lift the 
ice of the great ice fields to great heights and can be heard for miles in the distance before they reach the 
ship and for miles after they pass beyond the ship. Arctic explorers describe these tidal waves as follows:  
"Giant blocks pitched and rolled as though controlled by invisible hands, and the vast 
compressing bodies shrieked a shrill and horrible sound that curdled the blood. On came the 
frozen waves. Seams ran and rattled across them with a thundering boom, while we watched 
their terrible progress. " Reed says: "These tidal waves are caused by some tremendous agency 
and I can think of nothing more powerful than the plunging of an iceberg into the ocean. The great 
frequency of these powerful tidal waves seems to exclude the possibility of their being caused by 
underwater volcanic eruptions. "  
Marshall B. Gardner's Book, " A Journey to the Earth's Interior Or 
Have the Poles Really Been Discovered?"  
Marshall B. Gardner spent twenty years in research, based on the reports of Arctic explorers, 
supplemented by astronomical evidence, before publishing, in 1920, his great book, "A Journey to the 
Earth's Interior or Have the Poles Ever Been Discovered?" He did not seem to know about Reed's 
book and theory, so that both men developed their theories independently. Gardner's great contribution is 
the theory of a central sun, which is the source of the higher temperature in the region of the polar orifice 
and the aurora borealis, which Reed attributes to volcanic eruptions. A central sun as a source of heat 
and light makes possible the existence of plant and animal life in the earth's interior, also human life, in 
which Reed believed to be a fact, but could not explain according to his theory, which did not include a 
central sun as a source of light, without which there could be no life.  
Gardner also claims, and in his book presents astronomical evidence to prove, that not only the earth, but 
all planets of the solar system, have hollow interiors and central suns, which he traces to their original 
formation from a whirling nebula.  
As a result of centrifugal force, their rotation during their early formation when yet molten caused their 
heavier constituents to be thrown toward the outside, forming a solid crust on the outer surface of each 
planet and leaving the interior hollow, while a portion of the original fire remained in the center to form the 
central sun. Also the force of their rotation and movements through space caused openings to form at 
their polar extremities.  
Why have Reed's and Gardner's books become so rare that it is practically impossible to obtain copies; 
and they are not found in most libraries. Because they prove that there exists a large area not recorded 
on any map, which is not only equal to, but perhaps greater than the entire land area of the earth's 
surface - this uncharted land area being on the inside of the earth's crust. Naturally any government that 
learned about this vast territory would have ambitions to be the first to discover it and claim it, for which 
reason it would make every effort to keep this information secret, so that no other government might learn 
about it and claim this territory first. Since the United States Government was the first to learn about it as 
a result of the visit of Admiral Byrd, who flew for 1,700 miles into this "mysterious land beyond the Pole," 
which is not shown on any map, and saw mountains, forests, green vegetation, rivers, lakes and animals 
there, we can understand the reason for secrecy and why the books of two American writers Reed and 
Gardner, were suppressed and forgotten, in order to guard this secret.  
EVIDENCE FROM ARCTIC EXPLORATION  
Gardner's book is 450 pages in length. With fifty books, chiefly on Arctic exploration, in his bibliography, 
he was most thorough in his research. Gardner claimed that the earth is a hollow shell approximately 800 
miles thick in its crust, with an opening at the polar end approximately 1,400 miles across. He says that 
the mammoth comes from the interior and is still living there, and the huge tropical animals found frozen 
in ice in the polar region were not prehistoric but were animals from the interior that came to the surface 
and were frozen in ice when they did.  
In support of his theory of a polar opening and a central sun in the hollow interior of the earth, Gardner 
points out that birds and animals migrate to the north in winter to find warmer weather. He also notes that 
when explorers go north of 80 degrees north latitude, they find the water to become warmer due to warm 
currents coming from the polar region, and the air becomes warmer due to warm winds from the north 
These cause the open sea, in place of ice, in the extreme north. They also find red pollen on icebergs and 
glaciers, and find logs and other debris washed ashore by these warm currents from the north. Gardner 
summarizes the evidence in favor of his theory of a hollow earth with two polar openings and a central 
sun as follows:  
"How do scientists explain the fact that when we go north it becomes colder up to a certain point 
and then begins to get warm? How do they explain the further fact that the source of this warmth 
is not any influence from the south but a series of currents of warm water and of warm winds from 
the north - supposed to be a land of solid ice? Where can these currents come from? How could 
they come from anything else but an open sea? And why should there be a warm open sea at the 
very place where scientists expect to find eternal ice? Where could this warm water possibly 
come from?  
"Why also should explorers find the inhospitable ice cliffs of the far north covered in large areas 
with the red pollen of an unknown plant? And why should they find the seeds of tropical plants 
floating in these waters - when they are not found in more southern waters? How should logs and 
branches of trees, sometimes with fresh buds on them be found in these waters, all being borne 
down by the warm currents from the north?  
"Why should the northern parts of Greenland be the world's greatest habitat of the mosquito, an 
insect which is only found in warm countries ? How could it have gotten to Greenland if it came 
from the south? Where do all the foxes and hares go which are seen traveling north in 
Greenland? Where did the bears go? Was it possible that such large creatures as bears could 
find sustenance on plains of eternal ice?  
"How do scientists explain the fact that practically every competent explorer from the earlier days 
down to Nansen has admitted that when he got to the Far North his theories of what he should 
find failed to work and his methods of finding his positions also failed to work? How do scientists 
explain these passages from Nansen which we have quoted, showing that he was absolutely lost 
in the Arctic region?  
"How do scientists explain the migrations of those birds which appear in England and other 
northern countries one part of the year, in the tropics in another part of the year, but disappear 
entirely in the winter? How do they explain the fact that neither Peary nor Cook was able to prove 
the claim of reaching the north pole. Even supposing both men to have acted in good faith is it not 
obvious that both were lost? How else explain the discrepancies in Peary's own narrative?  
"Why, says the reader, did Peary not discover that immense orifice at the polar extremity of the 
earth if it was there?  
"The reason is very simple and can best be explained by asking another question.  
"Why did not man discover by looking around him, that he was living on the surface of what is, 
practically speaking, an immense sphere (to be exact spheroid)? And why did man for centuries 
think that the earth was flat? Simply because the sphere was so large that he could not see the 
curvature but thought it was a flat surface, and that he should be able to move all over the surface 
of it appeared so natural that, when scientists first told him it was a sphere he began to wonder 
why he did not fall off, or at least, if he lived in the Northern Hemisphere, he wondered why the 
Australians did not fall off - for he had no conception of the law of gravity.  
"Now, in the case of the polar explorers the same thing is true. They sail up to the outer edge of 
the immense polar opening, but that opening is so vast, considering that the crust of the earth 
over which it curves is eight hundred miles thick, that the downward curvature of its edge is not 
perceptible to them, and its diameter is so great - about 1,400 miles - that its other side is not 
visible to them. So, if an explorer went far enough he could sail right over that edge, down over 
the seas of the inner world and out through the Antarctic orifice, and all that would show him what 
he had done would be that as soon as he got inside he would see a smaller sun than he was 
accustomed to - only to him it might look larger owing to its closeness - and he would not be able 
to take any observations by the stars because there would be neither stars nor even a night in 
which to see them.  
"But, says the reader, would not the force of gravity pull the explorer who got inside the orifice 
away from the surface into the central sun; for does not gravity pull everything to the center of the 
earth?  
"The answer to this is, that in gravitational pull it is not the geometrical position that counts. 
Center, in the geometrical sense of the word, does not apply. It is the mass that attracts. And if 
the great mass of the earth is in its thick shell, it is the mass of that shell that will attract, and not a 
mere geometrical point which is not in the shell at all, but 2900 miles away from it, as is the 
approximate distance between the central sun and the inner surface of the earth. As a matter of 
fact it is the equal distribution of the force of gravity all through the shell that keeps the sun 
suspended in the spot which is equidistant from every part of the shell. When we are on the 
outside of the shell it is the mass of the shell that attracts us to its surface. When we go over to 
the inside of the shell that same force will still keep our feet solidly planted on the inner surface.  
"We shall see all that when we explore the Arctic in earnest, as we shall easily be able to do with 
the aid of airships. And when once we have seen it we shall wonder why it was that for so long 
we were blind to evidence which, as is shown in this book, has been before men's eyes for 
practically a whole century and over."  
Twenty-seven years after Gardner wrote this, Admiral Byrd did exactly what he hoped would be done. He 
flew by airplane into the north polar opening for 1700 miles and came to a land of trees, as Gardner 
believed would exist there, and also a warmer climate, as shown by the rivers, lakes, vegetation and 
animal life he observed there.  
Gardner writes:  
"That the musk-ox is not the only animal to be found where we should hardly expect it, is evident 
from a note in Hayes' diary. When he was in latitude 78 degrees, 17 minutes, early in July, he 
said: `I secured a yellow-winged butterfly, and - who would believe it - a mosquito. And also ten 
moths, three spiders, two bees and two flies.'"  
Since these insects are not found further south, a land of ice and snow, the only explanation Gardner 
could offer for their origin is that they came from the interior of the earth through the polar opening.  
Hayes' observations of insect life in the extreme north were confirmed by Greely, in his book "Three 
Years of Arctic Service," describing his observations in the Arctic, begun in 1881. In the preface to his 
book, Greely tells us that the wonders of the Arctic regions are so great that he was forced to modify his 
actual notes made at the time, and understated them rather than lay himself open to the suspicion of 
exaggerating. That the Arctic regions are so full of life and strange evidence of life farther north, that an 
explorer cannot describe it without being accused of exaggerating is surely a very strange thing if these 
regions only lead to a barren land of everlasting ice, as according to older geographical theories.  
Greely reports birds of an unknown species, butterflies, flies and temperatures of 47 to 50 degrees, also 
plenty of willow to make fires, and much fresh driftwood. He found two flowers different from any that he 
had ever seen.  
In many pages of astronomical evidence, Gardner discusses the bright lights seen shining from the polar 
caps of Mars, Venus and Mercury, and concludes that these planets all have central suns and polar 
openings. He claims that the earth has the same and that the aurora borealis results from the projection 
of the rays of the central sun, passing through the polar opening, on the night sky. Gardner summarizes 
the evidence in favor of his theory as follows:  
"As explorers go north of about 80 degrees north latitude, they find that the water, instead of 
becoming colder in the same ratio in which it had been getting colder as they left the temperate 
zone, gradually begins to get warm again, and they find that this warmth is brought down from the 
so-called frozen north in a warm current flowing from the polar regions. Furthermore they find that 
birds and animals migrate to the north to feed and breed, instead of to the south. In fact, when 
they get into really high latitudes, explorers find a greater wealth of animal and vegetable life than 
they do in the lower latitudes of the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions.  
"And as they are sailing to these northern regions they find, scattered on the icebergs and 
glaciers, the red pollen of plants that grow - where? Only in the interior of the earth. And they find 
logs and other debris of the land washed down in these warm currents just spoken of. And this is 
not all. In our chapter on the mammoth and mastodon we shall adduce evidence to show that the 
mammoth still lives in the interior - in fact we shall exhibit case after case where the mammoth 
has floated out from the interior incased in glaciers and icebergs and has been frozen in 
crevasses in the interior near the polar openings, and then carried over the lip by glacial 
movement into Siberia."  
In addition to driftwood found in the extreme north, whose origin, according to Gardner, could only be the 
earth's interior, there is found trees with green buds in the Arctic seas. Seeds of unknown tropical species 
have also been found drifting down in the northern currents, coming from the north, not the south. Among 
these was the seed of the entada bean, a tropical seed, which was found by a Swedish expedition near 
Trurengerg Bay. Gardner comments:  
"This seed must have come from the interior of the earth, for it is of a tree that only grows under 
tropical conditions, and it would have been disintegrated had it been drifting all over the world for 
many months, as would be the case if it had come up from the tropical regions of the exterior of 
the planet."  
Sverdrup found so many hares around 81 degrees north latitude that one inlet was called Hare Fjord. 
There was also enough other game to keep the whole exploring party well fed with meat.  
Captain Beechey saw so many birds on the west coast of Spitzbergen that the place reverberated with 
their cries from dawn till dark. The little auk were so numerous and so close together that sometimes a 
single shot killed thirty of them. With sixteen birds to a cubic yard, there were about four million of them. 
Rotgers were so numerous as to darken the sky, and their chorus could be heard for four miles. There 
were also reindeer and ducks. There were four varieties of seagulls over the surrounding ocean, plus fish 
and amphibious animals, from the huge whale to the minute clio on which it feeds, swallowing perhaps a 
million with each mouthful.  
Franklin saw large numbers of geese migrating to the unknown north, at a high latitude, indicating land 
there. He notes that no matter how far north the explorer goes, he always finds the polar bear ahead of 
him. No matter how far north these bears are met, they are always on their way north.  
At latitude 82, Kane found butterflies, bees and flies, as well as wolves, foxes, bears, geese, ducks, 
water-fowls and partridges. A strange fact all explorers observe is that animals do not migrate south to 
escape the cold Arctic winter, but instead go north.  
Commander McClure explored Banks Land and found immense quantities of trees thrown in layers by 
glacious action, which evidently brought them from the north. In one ravine he found a pile of trees closely 
packed, to a height of forty feet. While some wood was petrified, much of it was of recent origin. These 
trees were found far beyond the latitude where trees grow.  
Nansen was puzzled by this driftwood which is continually found along the Greenland coast. He said that 
as far north as latitude 86 degrees he found such driftwood.  
Gardner says that it is the unanimous testimony of explorers that "the further north you go, the more 
animal life there is, a complete proof that there is in the far north a great asylum of refuge where every 
creature can breed in peace and with plenty of food. And from that region must come also those 
evidences of vegetable life that explorers have repeatedly seen, the red pollen of plants that drifts out on 
favorable breezes and colors whole icebergs and glacier sides with a ruddy tinge, those seeds and buds 
and branches, and most impressive of all, those representatives of races of animals that yet live on in the 
interior, although they have disappeared from the outside of the earth. (Gardner here refers to mammoths 
found frozen in ice.)  
"What a veritable paradise of animal and vegetable life that must be: And perhaps for some sort 
of human life, also, it is a land of perpetual ease and peace. The Eskimo people who are still 
living there will have been modified from the type that we see on the outer surface. Their life will 
be easier, as they will have no cold climates and food scarcities to contend with. Like the 
inhabitants of some of our tropical islands, they will reflect the ease of their lives in easy-going 
and lovable temperaments. They will be... eaters of many fruits and other vegetable products 
unknown to us. When we penetrate their land we shall find growing almost to the inner edge of 
the polar opening those trees of which we have seen so many drifting trunks and branches.  
"We shall find, nesting perhaps in those trees, perhaps in the rocks around the inner polar 
regions the knots and swans and wild geese and ross-gulls that we have so often seen in the 
preceding pages, flying to the north to escape the rigors of climate which we in our ignorance 
have for so long supposed to be worse in the north than elsewhere."  
Speaking of Nansen, who reached further north than any other explorer, Ottmar Kaub comments:  
"Marshall B. Gardner was right when he wrote his book in 1920. On August 3, 1894, Dr. Fritzjof
Nansen was the first man in history to reach the interior of the earth. Dr. Nansen got lost and 
admitted it. He was surprised at the warm weather there. When he found a fox track, he knew he 
was lost.  
"How could a fox track be there, he wondered. Had he known that he had entered the opening 
that leads to the hollow interior of the earth and that this was the reason why, the further north he 
went, the warmer it became, he would have found not only fox tracks but later tropical birds and 
other animals, and finally the human inhabitants of this `land beyond the Pole,' into which Admiral 
Byrd penetrated for 1,700 miles by plane and which completely mystified him."  
ORIGIN OF THE MAMMOTH  
Gardner claims that the mammoth and elephant-like creatures of tropical origin found frozen in the Arctic 
ice, which is derived from fresh water (not salty water as one would suppose, since this is the only water 
found there) are really animals from the interior of the Earth that came to the surface and became frozen, 
and are not prehistoric animals as commonly supposed. Gardner's theory of the subterranean origin of 
the mammoth found confirmation in Admiral Byrd's observation of a living mammoth during his 1,700 mile 
flight into the land beyond the North Pole, within the polar opening.  
Gardner claims that these strange animals not known on the Earth's surface were carried by rivers from 
the Earth's interior, freezing within the ice that was then formed. This theory seems very reasonable, in 
view of the ice being formed from fresh water not found in the Arctic Ocean. Since this ice, like icebergs, 
could not have been formed by ocean water, the only explanation is that it comes from other water - fresh 
water rivers flowing out through the polar opening from the earth's interior.  
Since these animals are found inside of icebergs, which are composed of fresh water, this water, like the 
animals frozen in the ice it forms on reaching the surface and exposed to its lower temperature, must 
come from the earth's interior. Gardner speaks of herds of mammoths, elephants and other tropical 
animals which, when they venture out to the colder regions near the rim of the polar opening, together 
with glaciers which form there from water from the interior flowing outward and freezing become frozen in 
the ice. Or they might fall into crevasses, perhaps concealed by snow, and the moment they fall in, they 
will be covered by snow and snow-water from above and hermetically sealed in the ice.  
This would account for the fresh condition in which these mammoths frozen in the ice are found after 
these glaciers have gradually worked their way over the rise of the polar opening and out into the Siberian 
wastes where these frozen animals are found in a perfectly fresh and edible condition.  
Robert B. Cook tells of the remains not only of mammoths, but of hairy rhinoceros, reindeer, 
hippopotamus, lion and hyena, found in northern glacial deposits. He claims that these animals which 
were unable to endure cold weather were either summer visitors during the severity of the glacial period 
or permanent residents when the country had a milder climate. But Gardner maintains that these animals 
came from inside the earth for the following reason:  
"Since the reindeer, lion and hyena are present day forms of life and not as old as the mammoth 
(at least in the form in which we know them today and in which these remains show them to have 
been when they were alive), it is evident that these animals visited the spots where their remains 
were found not from southerly climates during early glacial epochs, but that they are remains of 
visitors from the land of the interior. Otherwise these present day forms would not be found 
alongside those of the mammoth which we have shown to be a present day inhabitant of the 
interior of the earth. Not knowing this, Mr. Cook has great difficulty in explaining the occurrence 
together of these forms which in his view are earlier and later forms of life. But when we shall see 
that they are really contemporaneous (and both came from the interior of the earth), the difficulty 
vanishes."  
In the stomach of the mammoth was found undigested food consisting of young shoots of pine and fir and 
young fir cones. In others are found fern and tropical vegetation. How could an Arctic animal have tropical 
food in its stomach? One explanation is that the Arctic region once had a tropical climate, and that a shift 
of the earth on its axis suddenly brought on the Ice Age and changed the climate to a frigid one.  
This theory has been offered to explain both the tropical vegetation in the stomach of frozen Arctic 
animals and the fact that many of these huge animals were of tropical species, related to elephants. 
Great deposits of elephant tusks were found in Siberia as evidence of the then northern habitat of tropical 
animals. But there is another theory to explain these facts: that these tropical animals came from the 
interior of the earth, which has a tropical climate, coming out through the North Polar opening. On 
reaching the cold exterior with its Arctic climate they froze, since they were unaccustomed to such cold 
climate.  
This is the theory held by Ray Palmer, who does not accept the idea that these animals died in prehistoric 
times as a result of a shifting of the earth on its axis. He says:  
"True the death must have been sudden, but it was not because the Arctic was previously tropical 
and suddenly changed to a frigid climate. The sudden Coming of the Ice Age was not the cause 
of death. The cause of death was Arctic in nature, and could have occurred any time, even 
recently. Since the Ice Age there were no mammoths in the known world, unless they exist in the 
mysterious land beyond the Pole, where one of them was actually seen alive by members of the 
Byrd expedition."  
"We have taken the mammoth as a rather sensational modern evidence of Byrd's mysterious 
land, but there are many lesser proofs that an unknown originating point exists somewhere in the 
northern regions. We will merely list a few, suggestions that the reader, in examining the records 
of polar explorers for the past two centuries, will find it impossible to reconcile with the known 
areas of food mentioned early in this presentation of facts, those areas surrounding the polar area 
on your present-day maps."  
ASTRONOMICAL EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF GARDNER'S THEORY OF A HOLLOW EARTH  
Gardner devotes a considerable portion of his book to a discussion of astronomical evidence in support of 
his theory of a hollow earth with polar openings and a central sun by referring the original formation of 
planets from nebulae and the polar lights observed from Mars, Venus and Mercury.  
In reference to nebulae, Gardner points out that planetary nebulae show a shell structure, generally with a 
central star, as observed by H.D. Curtis of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific in an article in 
"Scientific American" on October 14, 1916. He reports:  
"Fifty of these nebulae have been studied photographically with the Crosly reflector, using 
different lengths of exposure in order to bring out the structural details of the bright central 
portions as well as of the fainter, outlying parts. Most planetary nebulae show a more or less 
regular ring or shell structure, generally with a central star. "  
On the basis of the above and other astronomical evidence, Gardner claims that the shape of the 
nebulae, as seen through the telescope, confirms his theory by showing that in the original formation of 
planets from nebulae, they acquire a hollow interior, polar openings and a central sun, as is indicated by 
the shape of the ring nebula shown on the accompanying photograph. Gardner writes:  
"Why have scientists never really considered the problem of the shape of the planetary nebula? 
They know from actual observation and photographs that the planetary nebula takes the form of a 
hollow shell open at the poles and having a bright central nucleus or central sun at its center. 
Why have they never thought what that must imply? It is evidently one stage in the evolution of 
the nebula.  
"Why have scientists never asked themselves what that conformation must logically lead to? Why 
do they ignore it altogether? Is it not because they cannot explain it without too great a 
disturbance of their own theories? But our theory shows how that stage in the evolution of a 
nebula is reached and how it is passed, we show what precedes it in the history of the nebula and 
what follows it.  
"We show a continuous evolution passing through that stage to further stages in which those 
polar openings are fixed, the shell solidified, the nebula reduced to a planet. And it must be 
remembered that while the original nebula was incomparably greater than a planet in size, 
measuring even millions of miles across perhaps, at the same time that nebula is composed of 
gases so attenuated and so expanded by their immense heat that when they solidify they only 
make one planet."  
Gardner points out that just as, in the formation of the solar system, some of the original fire remains at 
the center in the form of the sun, so, in the case of each individual planet, by the same process by which 
the solar system as a whole is formed, and by a continuation of the same general movement of rotation 
and the centrifugal throwing out of the heavier masses to the periphery (as shown by the fact that the 
most outermost planets, as Uranus and Neptune, are larger than those nearer the sun, as Mercury and 
Venus), in the case of each of the planets, in their formation, some of the original fire remains in the 
center of each, to form the central sun, while their heavier constituents are thrown to their surface to form 
the solid crust, leaving the interior hollow.  
Also, due to their rotation on their axis, centrifugal force causes the mass throughout to collect more at 
right angles to the axis of rotation, causing a bulge at the Equator, with a corresponding compensation at 
the poles in form of polar depressions which open to the hollow interior, rather than being perfectly round.  
It is Gardner's theory, in support of which he presents astronomical evidence in his book, that all planets 
are hollow and have central suns, this being the basic pattern according to which solar systems are 
formed from the primordial nebulae from which they originate. Also our universe must have a central sun 
too, around which the stars circulate.  
Gardner quotes the famous astronomer, Professor Lowell, that he has seen gleams of light from the polar 
cap of Mars. According to Gardner, this is due to the central sun of Mars passing through the polar 
opening. Similar bright lights have been observed coming from the polar region of Venus. During a transit 
of Mercury across the sun, the planet, while black on the side toward us, was observed to emit a bright 
light, comparable to the light of our sun, coming from its black disc.  
Gardner concludes that these three planets are all hollow and have large polar openings misnamed polar 
caps of ice and snow, but in reality are white due to the large amount of fog and clouds in these regions, 
and that openings in the fog or clouds permit the central sun to shine through. Such bright lights have 
repeatedly been observed by astronomers who, not understanding the reason, could not offer any 
satisfactory explanation. Gardner notes that at times these polar caps disappear suddenly, due to a 
change of weather and that ice and snow could not melt so rapidly. Professor Newcomb says:  
"There is no evidence that snow like ours ever formed around the poles of Mars. It does not seem 
possible that any considerable fall of such snow could take place, nor is there any necessity of 
supposing actual snow or ice to account for the white caps. "  
In support of his claim concerning the existence of lights seen at the pole of Mars, Gardner quoted 
Professor Lowell who notes that on June 7, 1894, he was watching Mars and suddenly saw two points of 
light flash out from the middle of the polar cap. They were dazzling bright. The lights shone for a few 
minutes and then disappeared. Green, some years earlier, in 1846, also saw two spots of light at the pole 
of Mars.  
Lowell tried to explain the lights he saw as reflections of sunlight by polar ice, but Gardner denies this, 
quoting Professor Pickering who saw a vast area of white form at the pole of Mars within twenty-four 
hours, visible as a white cap, and then gradually disappeared. Also Lowell saw a band of dark blue, which 
he took to be water from the melting ice or snow cap. Gardner believes that the so-called Martian ice cap 
was really fog and clouds, which also could appear and disappear so rapidly. He writes:  
"What Lowell really did see was a direct beam - two direct beams at the same moment - flashing 
from the central sun of Mars out through the aperture of the Martian pole. Does not the blue rim 
around that area to which Lowell referred indicate the optical appearance of the reflecting surface 
of the planet gradually curving over to the interior so that at a certain part of the curve it begins to 
cease reflecting the light? And the fact that it is not seen often simply shows that it is only visible 
when Mars is in a certain position with relation to the earth, when we are able to penetrate the 
mouth of the polar opening and catch the direct beam.  
"Why have scientists never compared the facts of the light cap of Mars with the light that plays 
over our own polar regions? Do they forget that the auroral display has been observed to take 
place without any reference to the changing of the magnetic needle? And if the aurora is shown 
to be independent of magnetic conditions, what else can it be due to than a source of light? Is not 
the reflection of the aurora light from the higher reaches of the atmosphere comparable to the 
projection of the light of the Martian caps into the higher reaches of the Martian atmosphere? And 
how do scientists explain the fact that the aurora is only seen distinctly in the very far north and 
only seen in a fragmentary way when we get further south?"  
In support of his view that the polar caps of Mars are not formed of ice and snow but represent the light of 
its central sun shining through the polar opening, Gardner says:  
"Why does the hot planet Venus have polar caps like those of Mars if the Martian caps are really 
composed either of ice, snow or frozen carbon dioxide? Also, why do the polar caps of Venus and 
Mercury not wax and wane as those of Mars are said to do? And why are the polar caps of Mars 
seen to throw a mass of light many miles above the surface of the planet when they are seen in a 
side view if they are really of ice? How could they be so luminous in the first place - more 
luminous than snow is when seen under similar circumstances? And how could Lowell see direct 
gleams of light from the caps if there were not beams from a direct light source?  
"Furthermore, how do scientists account for the fact, noticed also by Professor Lowell, whose 
observations on Mars all seem to support our theory, that when the planet is viewed through a 
telescope at night, that its polar light is yellow and now white, as the light from snow caps would 
be? The central sun is an incandescent mass, and just as the glowing of an incandescent electric 
light looks yellow when seen from a distance through darkness, so the direct light of the Martian 
sun would appear yellow - but if this light were reflected from a solid white surface it would 
certainly appear white. But it does not, and so it is up to the scientists to tell us just why it does 
not. But so far as we know they have not succeeded in doing this."  
Mitchell saw two bright flashes of light at the polar cap of Mars which gradually came together. Gardner 
explains this as due to clouds which passed over the face of the interior sun, causing variations in the 
light emitted through the polar opening.  
An English astronomer, W E. Denning, writing in the scientific periodical, "Nature," concerning his 
observations in 1886, wrote:  
"During the past few months the north polar cap of Mars has been very bright, sometimes offering 
a startling contrast to those regions of the surface more feebly reflective. These luminous regions 
of Mars require at least as much careful investigation as the darker parts. In many previous 
drawings and descriptions of Mars, sufficient weight has not been accorded to these white spots."  
The English astronomer, J. Norman Lockyer, in 1892, wrote about Mars:  
"The snow zone was at times so bright that, like the crescent of the young moon, it appeared to 
project beyond the planet. This effect of irradiation was frequently visible. On one occasion the 
snow spot was observed to shine like a nebulous star when the planet itself was obscured by 
clouds, a phenomenon noticed by Beer and Madler, and recorded in their work, `Fragments Sur 
les Corps Celestes.' The brightness seemed to vary considerably, and at times, especially when 
the snow zone was near its minimum, it was by no means the prominent object it generally is 
upon the planet's disc."  
Gardner comments on the above observations:  
"No one who reads the above in the light of our theory can fail to see how it fits in. Only direct 
beams of light from a central sun could give that luminous effect above the surface of the planet 
and varying as the atmosphere in the interior or above it was clouded or clear. Had it been a 
mere ice cap, there would not have been this luminosity when the planet was covered with 
clouds, as Lockyer says it was. Furthermore, that luminosity is precisely what our aurora borealis 
would look like if our planet was viewed from a great distance. And the light is the same in both 
cases. By turning to the planet Venus we shall demonstrate absolutely that the polar circles are 
not snow, or ice, or even hoar-frost caps, but simply apertures leading to the inner and illumined 
surface of the planet."  
On Venus the extensive water vapor tends to equalize the temperature, so that its polar caps are not 
composed of ice and snow, as supposed in the case of Mars, but which Gardner doubts. Speaking of the 
polar caps of Venus, MacPherson, in his "Romance of Modern Astronomy," says:  
"Polar caps have been observed, supposed by some to be similar to those on our own planet and 
Mars. Some astronomers, however, do not regard them as snow."  
The French astronomer Trouvelet, in 1878, observed at the pole of Venus a confused mass of luminous 
points, which Gardner attributes to light from the central sun struggling through the clouds. Since the 
polar cap is not made of ice, these lights cannot be a reflection of the sun. He believes this is the same 
case with Mars.  
Similar lights are seen coming from Mercury. Richard Proctor, one of the best known astronomers of the 
nineteenth century, wrote:  
"One phenomenon of Mercury, if real, might fairly be regarded as indicating Vulcanian energies 
compared with which those of our own earth would be as the puny forces of a child compared 
with the energies of a giant. It has been supposed that a certain bright spot seen in the black disc 
of Mercury when the planet is in transit indicates some source of illumination either of the surface 
of the planet or in its atmosphere. In its atmosphere it could hardly be; nor could any auroral 
streamers on Mercury be supposed to possess the necessary intensity of lustre. If the surface of 
Mercury were glowing with the light thus supposed to have been seen, then it can readily be 
shown that over hundreds of thousands of square miles of that surface must glow with an 
intensity of lustre compared with which the brightness of the lime light would be as darkness. In 
fact, the lime light is absolute darkness compared with the intrinsic lustre of the sun's surface; and 
the bright spot supposed to belong to Mercury has been seen when the strongest darkening
glasses have been employed. But there can be no doubt that the bright spot is an optical 
phenomenon only."  
Commenting on Proctor's statement, Gardner writes:  
"Again we agree with the observation but not with the inference. Here is a spot of light on 
Mercury, plainly seen through a telescope, so bright that the observer compares it to the 
incandescence of a sun. It is a much brighter light than any reflection could possibly give. To 
Proctor such an appearance must have been shocking to the extreme. He was not expecting it 
and was utterly unprepared to see such a phenomenon. So he is utterly unable to explain it. So 
Proctor calls this light `an optical phenomenon only.' But we cannot believe that Proctor's eyes 
have played him a trick. He was a trained astronomical observer. So what he saw must have had 
some explanation or cause behind it.  
"It is obvious to us that what he saw was the central sun of Mercury beaming directly through the 
polar aperture, and as Mercury is a small planet, the interior sun would be rather near the 
aperture, and there would be no aqueous atmosphere with clouds to darken its beams, with the 
result that this sun would shine with extraordinary brightness. It may be noticed that its beams put 
Proctor in mind of the beams from the sun that shines upon all the planets.  
"What more could be wanted than this to show that Mercury, as well as the other planets, has a 
central sun, and that such a sun is to be met with universally? Is it not significant that beginning 
with observations on Mars, we are able to go on to Venus and Mercury, apply the same tests and 
get the same results? The tests are direct observation or photographic observation. The results 
are the invariable appearance of a central sun."  
In addition to the above astronomical evidence in favor of his theory, Gardner refers to the structure of the 
heads of comets, showing a hollow center, outer crust and central sun. In his book he presents a drawing 
of Donati's comet, detected from a Florence observatory in 1858. As can be seen it had a central nucleus 
or sun, which "shone with a brilliance equal to that of the Polar Star" and was 630 miles in diameter. 
Gardner believes that a comet is a planet which, came into the orbit of some other larger body, like our 
sun, which tore it from its own orbit, and possibly collided with another planet and the resulting heat 
transformed most of it into a gaseous tail that trails after it. Gardner claims that the fiery nucleus of the 
comet was once the central sun of the planet from which it was formed after it broke into fragments.  
ORIGIN OF THE AURORA BOREALIS  
Just as there are polar lights from Mars, Venus and Mercury, coming from their central suns shining 
through their polar openings, so Gardner claims, the same occurs in the case of our own planet, the polar 
lights which it gives off being the aurora borealis, which is not due to magnetism but to the earth's central 
sun.  
Gardner presents the following theory of the origin of the Aurora Borealis:  
"Why have scientists never compared the facts of the light cap of Mars with the light that plays 
over our own polar regions? Do they forget that the auroral display has been observed to take 
place without any reference to the changing of the magnetic needle ? And if the aurora is shown 
to be independent of&127 magnetic conditions, what else can it be due to than a source of light? 
Is not the reflection of the aurora light from the higher reaches of the atmosphere comparable to 
the projection of the light of the Martian caps into the higher reaches of the Martian atmosphere? 
And how do scientists explain the fact that the aurora is only distinctly seen in the very far north 
and only seen in a fragmentary way when we get further south?"  
Gardner concludes that the aurora borealis is due to the central sun shining through the polar orifice on 
the night sky; and the variations in the streamers of light are due to passing clouds in the interior, which, 
in their movements, cut off the light of the central sun and cause the reflection on the sky to keep 
changing. That the aurora is not due to magnetism or electrical discharges is proven by many 
observations of Arctic explorers showing there is no disturbance of the compass nor crackling sounds that 
accompany electrical discharges, when the aurora is most intense.  
Gardner says:  
"There are some other considerations which show that the aurora is really due to the interior sun. 
Dr. Kane, in his account of his explorations, tells us that the aurora is brightest when it is white. 
That shows that when the reflection of the sun is so clear that the total white light is reflected, we 
get a much brighter effect than when the light is cut up into prismatic colors. In the latter case the 
atmosphere is damp and dense (in the interior of the earth) - that being the cause of the rainbow 
effect - and through such an atmosphere one cannot see so much. Hence the display is not so 
bright as it is when the atmosphere is clear and the light not broken up.  
"Again, if the aurora is the reflection of the central sun, we should expect to see it fully only near 
the polar orifice, and see only faint glimpses of its outer edges as we went further south. And that 
is precisely what is the actual fact of the matter.  
Says Dr. Nicholas Senn in his book, "In the Heart of the Arctics:"  
"`The aurora, which only occasionally is seen in our latitudes, is but the shadow of what it is to be 
seen in the polar region.'  
"The aurora is not a magnetic or electrical disturbance but simply a dazzling reflection from the 
rays of the central sun. For if it warms continents and waters in the interior of the earth, if, as we 
have seen, birds have their feeding and breeding grounds there, if an occasional log or seed or 
pollen-like dust is seen in the Arctic that came from some such unknown place as we have 
described, it ought to be possible to obtain enough evidence of such life." 
Was the North Pole Really Discovered?  
On April 21, 1808, Dr. Frederick A. Cook announced that he had reached the North Pole. His 
announcement was followed a few days later by one from Rear Admiral Robert E. Peary, who claimed to 
reach the North Pole on April 6, 1909. Both men hurled accusations against the other, claiming that they 
discovered the North Pole and that the other did not. Cook accused Peary, saying that he had 
appropriated some of his reports on his return from the Pole. But Cook failed to have any written record 
that he had made of his trip, and this made his reports seem suspicious.  
Though Cook claimed to be the first to reach the North Pole, Peary is generally given credit to have been 
the first to discover it. Cook's claim was discredited because the sun's altitude was only a few degrees 
above the horizon and was so low at the time that observations of it as proof of his position were 
worthless. Peary reached, or claimed he reached, the North Pole in April, fifteen days earlier in the 
season, and hence under more adverse solar conditions. His calculations are therefore more open to 
suspicion than Cook's.  
Also, Cook has no witnesses that he found the North Pole, other than Eskimos. The same is true of 
Peary, who lacked witnesses through choice, having ordered the men on the expedition to remain behind, 
while he went on alone with one Eskimo companion to the Pole. While Cook was doubted when he 
claimed to make 15 miles a day, Peary claimed to have made over 20 miles. The argument whether Cook 
or Peary, or neither, discovered the North Pole is still not perfectly settled.  
There is one factor in Peary's dash to the Pole that casts suspicion on his claim to have reached it. This 
was the remarkable speed at which he claimed to travel, or would have had to travel to reach the North 
Pole and return during the time he did. When he neared the 88th parallel north latitude, he decided to 
attempt a final dash to the Pole in five days. He made 25 miles the first day; 20 miles on the second day; 
20 miles on the third day; 25 miles on the fourth; and 40 miles on the fifth. His five-day average was 26 
miles a day. Can a man walk that fast under the incredibly difficult conditions of the North Pole area, 
supposedly an ice-terrain described by the men in the atomic submarine "Skate" as fantastically jumbled 
and jagged? And yet, further south, with presumably better conditions of travel, he was able to average 
only 20 miles a day.  
From these facts we must conclude that neither Cook nor Peary reached the true North Pole, since, 
according to the theories presented in this book, it does not exist. What Cook and Peary reached was 
probably the magnetic rim of the polar opening or depression, where the compass points straight down, 
but not the Pole itself, which lies in the center of this opening. Peary may have traveled for the distance 
he calculated as correct to reach the North Pole, but what he really did was to travel this same distance 
either around or into the depression or opening which exists in this part of the world, into which Admiral 
Byrd entered; and the further he would travel the deeper he would go into this opening, without ever 
reaching the true Pole.  
Scientific societies that considered Cook's and Peary's claims to reach the North Pole concluded that in 
neither case could it be said authoritatively that the explorer had reached the Pole.  
Cook's claim to have reached the Pole was based on his promise to prove it by field notes and 
mathematical observations. But he was never able to present any notes. He claimed that Peary caused 
some of this data to be buried. But in time the faith in Cook turned into skepticism, which was started by 
Peary's denial of Cook's claim. Peary's denial was supported by Cook's failure to present proper scientific 
data. Rear Admiral Melville of the United States Navy, an old time Arctic explorer, said in an interview at 
the time:  
"It was the crazy dispatches purporting to have come from Dr. Cook about the conditions he 
found there, and other things, that caused a doubt in my mind about Cook's having found the 
Pole."  
According to Dr. Tittman, Cook and Peary could not have traveled on foot over solid ice to reach the 
North Pole, because practically all scientists agree that this is not the fact. Some think there is open sea 
there and others fertile land. All explorers who have gone far enough north found open sea. As for fertile 
land there, this would only be possible according to our own theory of a polar opening and central sun, 
since, according to the theory of a solid earth, it should get colder and colder the further north one goes. 
But Arctic explorers found the opposite to be true. They found it warmer near the, Pole than further south. 
But even if the cold at the Pole was not enough to freeze the sea, how could it be warm enough to permit 
fertile land unless our theory is correct? Since all polar explorers agree that there is open sea in this 
region (the polar orifice), but ice further south, it is clear that Cook did not go as far north as he thought he 
went.  
When the Swedish Academy of Sciences and University of Copenhagen examined Cook's claims, they 
decided that he had not proved that he reached the Pole. Peary gave the following report to the 
Associated Press:  
"Cook was not at the North Pole on April 21, 1908, nor at any other time. Cook's story should not 
be taken too seriously. The two Eskimos who accompanied him say he went no distance north, 
and not out of sight of land. Other members of the tribe commemorate this story. He has simply 
handed the public a gold brick."  
But when Peary returned to civilization his own story sounded as dubious as Cook's. He had taken even 
fewer observations of his alleged position than Cook had done. The fact that he left his white companions 
behind and had no witnesses cast doubt on his claims. When Cook was doubted when he said he made 
fifteen miles a day in sledge traveling, Peary claimed he made over twenty, and even forty. Since it is 
impossible to make forty miles a day on a dog sledge, which is admitted to be slower travel than on foot, 
this claim seems impossible. When questioned whether he traveled faster on the dog sledge than on foot, 
Peary admitted:  
"In Arctic expeditions a man is lucky if he is able to walk without pushing the sledge. Usually he 
must grip the rear and push it ahead. It is like guiding a breaking plow drawn by oxen. You must 
also expect at any moment that the sledge may strike some pressure ridge that will wrench you 
off your feet."  
According to Peary's statement it seems impossible that he could travel at speeds of twenty to forty miles 
a day over Arctic ice and keep it up for eight days, after doing equally arduous work for months.  
For this reason, after examining Cook's and Peary's data, Honorable Mr. Miller concludes:  
"The question whether Cook or Peary discovered the North Pole may never be solved. It seems 
to be one of history's puzzles, and to remain a matter of one man's word against another."  
When Peary submitted his proofs for investigation, the Congressional Committee that examined them 
acknowledged in Congress that Peary had not, no more than Cook, proved his claim of reaching the Pole. 
Peary claimed he traveled a distance of 270 miles from eighty-seven degrees, forty- seven minutes North 
to the Pole and back to the same latitude in seven days and a few hours. This speed seems impossible in 
the polar region.  
Cook admitted he did not reach the Pole in his book he wrote after he returned from his expedition, in 
which he wrote:  
"Did I actually reach the North Pole?...If I was mistaken in approximately placing my feet upon the 
pin-point (North Pole) about which this controversy has raged, I maintain it was the inevitable 
mistake any man must make. To touch that spot would be an accident."  
This created an international scandal. After foreign kings and universities had congratulated and 
showered honors on Cook, later it was discovered they had been duped. Now, after one American 
explorer (Cook) was found to have made a false claim, it would reflect badly the reputation of the United 
States if another (Peary) was found, after examination, to also make a false claim. This would lead to 
ridicule in the foreign press. To prevent this, the Congress of the United States appointed a committee of 
the National Geographical Society, which gave a favorable verdict on Peary's discovery after a cursory 
examination of his field notes, and it was hoped this would settle the matter, so that the world may 
consider an American explorer, Peary, to have discovered the North Pole. It was hoped this would settle 
the matter, and prevent one false claim about the discovery of the North Pole by an American from 
following the other.  
However, a year after the committee of the National Geographical Society made a favorable verdict on 
Peary's claim, a new Congressional investigation was made and its verdict was that Peary did not prove 
his claims because his statements were not backed by a single white witness. The committee made the 
verdict of "not proven."  
But Peary never replied to the charges made against him, and wished to end his career by retiring with 
the rank of Rear Admiral, which carried a pension with it of $6,000 a year. Friends of Peary brought into 
Congress a bill to retire him. One would think that before he retired an inquiry would be made whether or 
not he reached the Pole, but no inquiry was made. While the United States government refused to 
officially endorse Peary's discovery, it could not afford to lower its prestige before the world by 
announcing that he did not discover the North Pole.  
"I am satisfied that Peary did not discover the Pole for two reasons:  
"1. In spite of all the talk there has been about scientific data brought back by him and 
furnished as evidence, the fact is that his claim to the discovery in question is backed by 
his unsupported word, and by nothing else.  
"2. All of the other claims to discoveries in the Arctic region by Peary have been proven 
false. Why, then, should we accept as true his unsupported statement that he arrived at 
the Pole?"  
At a Congressional Hearing, Mr. Tittmann, superintendent of the U.S. Coast Survey, was asked: "What 
evidence is there that this party consisting of Peary and others, reached the Pole?"  
Mr. Tittmann replied: "I have no evidence of that except the soundings recorded under Peary's signature. 
Peary brought back nothing - no witnesses, no worthwhile scientific proof, nothing but his unsupported 
word to back up his claim to have discovered the Pole. But, inasmuch as his reputation for veracity has 
been completely shattered by the fact that every other claim of discovery made by him has proven false, 
there is nothing that the world can accept as demonstrating that at any time he has been anywhere near 
the Pole."  
Due to the irregular action of the compass in the polar region and the fact that the sun was barely above 
the horizon when both explorers were there, making it difficult to make measurements, in a region where 
it is easy for an explorer to get lost due to difficulty in ascertaining his position, it is probable that neither 
Cook or Peary really found the North Pole, even if they thought they did. This is confirmed by the fact that 
every previous Arctic explorer found warmer conditions and open sea very far north, while Cook and 
Peary claimed they traveled over ice. This would indicate that they were in points further south and if they 
had gone further north they would reach open sea. Commenting on this fact, Marshall B. Gardner, in his 
book, "A Journey to the Earth's Interior or Were the Poles Really Discovered," writes:  
"Had they (Cook and Peary) gone further they would have found open and increasing 
temperature. Had they then possessed boats they could have launched on that sea and the way 
to the goal and to the truth would have been clear. They would have seen the earth's central sun 
shining even in the winter, shining all of the twenty-four hours and all of the year, and they would 
have discovered new continents and oceans, a new world of land and water and of forms of life 
some of which have vanished from the outside of the globe.  
"But it was not to be. The discovery of that new land was left to those who, following the theory 
outlined in this book, and using such safe means of Arctic traveling as the airplane and dirigible, 
will fly over the eternal barrier of ice to the warmer sea beyond and over that until they come into 
the realm of perpetual sunlight. "  
Gardner's claim was confirmed by the two expeditions of Admiral Byrd, which traveled by airplane through 
the openings at the North and South Poles and came to this warmer land, where they saw a new strange 
form of animal life, as well as trees, green vegetation, mountains and lakes, though the expeditions did 
not penetrate the polar openings far enough to reach the tropical land of perpetual sunlight in the earth's 
interior, about which Gardner speaks. But such a land and such a sun must exist if Admiral Byrd's 
observations of a warmer territory beyond the Poles are correct.  
The Origin of the Eskimos  
William F. Warren, in his book, "Paradise Found, or the Cradle of the Human Race," presents the view 
that the human race originated on a tropical continent in the Arctic, the famed Hyperborea of the ancient 
Greeks, a land of sunshine and fruits, whose inhabitants, a race of gods, lived for over a thousand years 
without growing old.  
The ancient writings of the Chinese, Egyptians, Hindus and other races, and the legends of the Eskimos, 
speak of a great opening in the north and a race that lives under the earth's crust, and that their ancestors 
came from this paradisical land in the Earth's interior. (May not Santa Claus represent a race memory of a 
benefactor of humanity who came from this subterranean race, who came to the surface through the 
north polar opening - perhaps on a flying saucer, symbolized by his flying sled and reindeer?)  
Most writers on the subject claim that the interior of the earth is inhabited by a race of small brown
skinned people and also say that the Eskimos, whose racial origin differs from that of all other races on 
the earth's surface, came from this subterranean race. One explorer declared that those known as the 
Arctic Highlanders came from the interior of the earth. When the Eskimos were asked where their 
forefathers came from, they pointed to the north. Some Eskimo legends tell of a paradisical land of great 
beauty to the north. Eskimo legends also tell of a beautiful land of perpetual light, where there is neither 
darkness at any time nor a too bright sun.  
This wonderful land has a mild climate where large lakes never freeze, where tropical animals roam in 
herds, and where birds of many colors cloud the sky, a land of perpetual youth, where people live for 
thousands of years in peace and happiness. There is a story of a British king named Herla, whom the 
Skraelings (Eskimos) took to a land  
f paradise beneath the earth. The Irish have a legend about a lovely land beyond the north, where are 
continuous light and summer weather. Scandinavian legends tell of a wonderful land far to the north, 
called "Ultima Thule."  
Palmer comments: "Is Admiral Byrd's `land of mystery, center of the great unknown' the same as the 
`Ultima Thule' of Scandinavian legend?"  
Speaking of the origin of the Eskimo, Gardner says:  
"That the Eskimo came from the interior of the earth, that is to say, from a location which they 
could not easily explain to the Norwegians who might have asked them where they originally 
came from, is shown by the fact that the early Norwegians regarded them as a supernatural 
people, a species of fairy. When we remember that in the efforts of these Eskimos to tell where 
they came from they would point to the north and describe a land of perpetual sunshine, it is easy 
to see that the Norwegians who associated the polar regions with the end of the world, certainly 
not with a new world, would wonder at the strange origin thus indicated. They would naturally 
assume that these were supernatural beings who came from some region under the earth - as 
that was always considered to be the abode of fairies, gnomes and similar creatures."  
And according to Nansen this is precisely what happened. He says:  
"I have already stated that the Norse name 'Skraeling' for Eskimo must have originally been used 
as a designation of fairies or mythical creatures. Furthermore there is much that would imply that 
when the Icelanders first met with the Eskimo in Greenland they looked upon them as fairies. 
They, therefore, called them `trolls,' an ancient common name for various sorts of supernatural 
beings. This view persisted more or less in later times."  
Nansen goes on to tell us that when these Skraelings, or Eskimos, were mentioned in Latin writings, the 
word was translated as "Pygmaei," meaning "short, undergrown people of supernatural aspect." In the 
middle ages they were supposed to inhabit Thule, which refers to the ultimate land beyond the north. This 
belief in Thule, a land beyond the Pole, inhabited by a strange people, was very widespread. Nansen tells 
us that from St. Augustine the knowledge of these pigmies reached Isidore, and from him it passed over 
all of medieval Europe - in the sense of a fabulous people from the uttermost parts of the north, a fairy 
people.  
A Welshman, Walter Mapes, in the latter part of the twelfth century, in his collection of anecdotes, tells of 
a prehistoric king of Briton called Herla, who met with the Skraelings or Eskimos, who took him beneath 
the earth. Many early legends tell of people going under the earth into a strange realm, staying there for a 
long period of time and later returning. The ancient Irish had a legend of a land beyond the sea where the 
sun always shone and it was always summer weather. They even thought that some of their heroes had 
gone there and returned - after which they were never satisfied with their own country.  
A thirteenth century Norwegian writer is quoted by Nansen, according to whom the Eskimos were 
believed at this time to be a supernatural people, small in stature, and hence different in their origin than 
the other inhabitants of the earth. Gardner writes:  
"Nansen says that Eskimo settlements increase not only by the tribe growing in numbers, but by 
`fresh immigration from the north,' which clearly points to further additions from the interior of the 
earth.  
"That they originally came from a land of constant sunshine, from a country much past the 
northern ice barrier is the tradition of the Eskimos themselves, and it is a tradition which must be 
given full weight, for it could not have arisen among them in the first place without cause. On this 
point Dr. Senn says: `When questioned as to the land of their origin, they invariably point north 
without having the faintest perception what this means.'  
"Naturally the Eskimos do not know that the earth is hollow and that ages ago they lived in its 
interior, but they have clung to that one simple fact - they came from the north. Dr. Senn denies 
that they have any characteristics in common with the North American Indian and thinks that they 
are the remnant of `the oldest inhabitants of the western hemisphere.' In this attributing of great 
antiquity to them he may be right - at least he there agrees with Nansen. But the interior of the 
earth and not the western hemisphere is evidently the place of their original abode.  
"As for the land of perpetual sunshine, the Eskimo, of course, does not remember that as 
something he himself has seen, for it is very questionable if any of the Eskimos of the present 
generation have ever penetrated to the interior. But it is a well known fact that every race has its 
idea of a `golden age' or paradise which is generally composed of the elements being handed 
down in its stories and myths as being characteristic of its earliest home. Thus the Eskimo 
legends handed down generation after generation, tales of the interior land with its ever shining 
sun, and what could be more natural than when the Eskimo came to build in fancy a paradise for 
himself and his loved ones after they should die, that he should reconstruct this first home of 
which he had heard only dim legends? That at any rate, is just what he had done.  
Dr. Senn, discussing their religion says:  
"They believe in a future world. The soul descends beneath the earth into various abodes - the 
first of which is somewhat in the nature of a purgatory. But the good spirits passing through it find 
that the other mansions improve till at a great depth they reach that of perfect bliss, where the 
sun never sets, and where by the side of great lakes that never freeze, the deer roam in large 
herds and the seal and the walrus always abound in the waters.'  
"That paradise might serve as almost a literal description of the land in the interior of the earth, 
and the way in which the Eskimo indicates a preliminary purgatory before it can be reached may 
be the reflection of a memory handed down in the tribe of the great hardships and difficulties of 
the ice barrier between that wonderful home and the present situation of the Eskimo on the 
southern side of that great natural obstacle.  
"It is also interesting to note that when the Eskimo first saw Peary's effort to get further north than 
the great ice-cap of Greenland - beyond which they themselves had no ambition to explore - they 
immediately thought that the reason for his trying to get further north was to get into 
communication with other tribes there. That idea would hardly have occurred to them if it were not 
for the fact that they had traditional or other evidence of people in the supposedly unpopulated 
north.  
"With such a weight of evidence all pointing one way it is very hard to resist the conclusion that in 
the Eskimo we find a type, changed now and mixed with other types, but still something of a type 
of human being that has inhabited or very likely still inhabits the interior of the earth. We can 
certainly find no origin for them that explains their present situation. And their legends admit of no 
other explanation either. For those legends certainly point to the same sort of land as every 
chapter of this book has pointed to - a land of perpetual sunlight and a mild climate, a land 
corresponding to the `Ultima Thule' of ancient legend and that may, sooner than the skeptic 
expects, be opened up once more to those who go properly equipped to seek it."  
Gardner says that both the Eskimo and Mongolian race came from the interior of the earth, since they 
resemble each other in many ways, including the unusual formation of their eyes, so different from that of 
other races.  
Gardner writes:  
"It is quite possible that the Eskimos are not descended from any tribes driven out of China as 
that might imply, but that the Chinese as well as the Eskimos originally came from the interior of 
the earth.  
The Subterranean Origin of the Flying Saucers 
Evidence That They Come From the Hollow Interior of the Earth  
The conception of a hollow earth presented in this book offers the most reasonable theory of the origin of 
the flying saucers and far more logical than the belief in their interplanetary origin. For this reason, leading 
flying saucer experts, as Ray Palmer, editor of "Flying Saucers" magazine, and Gray Barker, a well 
known writer on flying saucers, have accepted the theory of their subterranean origin as against the idea 
that they come from other planets.  
The theory that flying saucers came from the Earth's interior and not from other planets originated in 
Brazil and only later was it taken up by American flying saucer experts.  
In 1957, while browsing in a Sao Paulo, Brazil, bookstore, the author came across a book that struck his 
attention, entitled, "From the Subterranean World to the Sky: Flying Saucers". The book was devoted 
to the thesis that flying saucers were not space ships from other planets but were of terrestrial origin and 
came from a subterranean race dwelling inside the earth.  
At first, the author could not accept this strange, unorthodox theory concerning the origin of the flying 
saucers, which seemed improbable and impossible, since it would require the existence of a cavity of 
tremendous size inside the earth in which they could fly, in view of their tremendous speed. In fact, this 
cavity would have to be so large that it would make the earth a hollow sphere. At this time the author had 
not come across the remarkable books of two American scientists, William Reed and Marshall B. 
Gardner, proving, on basis of evidence from Arctic explorers, that the earth is hollow with openings at the 
Poles, with a diameter of 5,800 miles in its hollow interior, large enough for flying saucers to fly in.  
Huguenin's theory of the subterranean origin of the flying saucers, however, was not original. The idea 
was first put forward by Professor Henruique Jose de Souza, president of the Brazilian Theosophical 
Society, which has its headquarters in Sao Lourenco in the State of Minas Gerais, where there is an 
immense temple in Greek style dedicated to "Agharta," the Buddhist name for the Subterranean World.  
Among the professor's students at Sao Lourenco were Mr. Huguenin and Commander Paulo Justino 
Strauss, officer of the Brazilian Navy and member of the Diretoria of the Brazilian Theosophical Society, 
From him they learned about the Subterranean World, and also the idea that flying saucers come from 
the Earth's interior. It was for this reason that Mr. Huguenin dedicated his book to Prof. de Souza and his 
wife, D. Helena Jefferson de Souza.  
While Huguenin incorporated the idea of the subterranean origin of the flying saucers in a book, 
Commander Strauss presented it in a series of lectures which he held in Rio de Janeiro, in which he 
affirmed that the flying saucers are of terrestrial origin, but do not come from any known nation on the 
earth's surface. They originate, he believes, in the Subterranean World, the World of Agharta, whose 
capital city is known as Shamballah.  
In his book, Huguenin presents Strauss's views on the subterranean origin of the flying saucers and 
against the theory that they come from other planets as follows:  
"The hypothesis of the extra-terrestrial origin of the flying saucers does not seem acceptable. 
Another possibility is that they are military aircraft belonging to some existing nation on earth. 
This hypothesis, however, is opposed by the following arguments:  
"1. If the United States and Russia possessed flying saucers, they would not desist from 
announcing this fact because of its value as a psychological arm to secure advantages in the 
diplomatic field. Also they would manufacture and use these vehicles for military purposes, since 
they are so rapid and powerful that they would leave the enemy almost without means of 
defense.  
"2. The United States and USSR would not continue to spend large sums of money on the 
manufacture of ordinary airplanes if they possessed the secret of producing flying saucers."  
After presenting the argument that flying saucers do not come from any existing nation and his view that 
they are not of interplanetary origin, Huguenin quotes Strauss to the fact that they come from the 
Subterranean World. On this subject he writes:  
"Finally, we must consider the most recent and interesting theory that has been offered to 
account for the origin of the flying saucers: the existence of a great Subterranean World with 
innumerable cities in which live millions of inhabitants. This other humanity must have reached a 
very high degree of civilization, economic organization and social, cultural and spiritual 
development, together with an extraordinary scientific progress, in comparison with whom the 
humanity that lives on the earth's surface may be considered as a race of barbarians.  
"The idea of the existence of a Subterranean World will shock many people. To others it will 
sound absurd and impossible, for 'certainly,' they say, 'if it existed, it would have been discovered 
long ago.' And there are plenty of other critics who would point out that it would be impossible for 
such an inhabited world to exist inside the earth because of the belief that as one descends, the 
temperature increases, on the basis of which theory it is supposed that, since the temperature 
increased the further down one went, the center of the earth is a fiery mass. However, this 
increase in temperature does not mean that the center of the earth is fiery, since it might extend 
only for a limited distance and, as in the case of volcanos and hot springs, arise from 
subterranean cavities located at certain levels (below which the temperature again drops as one 
goes downward).  
"In accordance with the hypothesis that heat increases as one descends through the earth's 
crust, this takes place only a distance of eighty kilometers (in the superficial layer of the earth).  
"According to the information supplied by Commander Paulo Justin Strauss, the Subterranean 
World is not restricted to caverns, but is more or less extensive and located in a hollow inside the 
Earth large enough to contain cities and fields, where live human beings and animals, whose 
physical structure resembles those on the surface. Among its inhabitants are certain persons who 
came from the surface, who, like Colonel Fawcett and his son Jack, descended, never to return."  
(Huguenin here refers to the views of Professor de Souza and Commander Strauss on 
the controversial subject of Colonel Fawcett's mysterious disappearance, claiming that he 
and his son Jack are still living in a subterranean city to which they gained access 
through a tunnel in the Roncador Mountains of Northeast Matto Grosso, and were not 
killed by Indians as commonly supposed. Fawcett's wife, who claims to be in telepathic 
contact with him, is positive that he is still living, so much so that she sent an expedition 
to Matto Grosso, in charge of her other son, to find him, but in vain, because he was no 
longer on the earth's surface, but in the Subterranean World.)  
Huguenin then asks how these marvelous subterranean cities and this advanced civilization in the interior 
of the earth arose. His answer is that the builders and most of the inhabitants of this Subterranean World 
are members of an antediluvian race which came from the prehistoric submerged continents of Lemuria 
and Atlantis, who found refuge there from the flood that destroyed their Motherland. (Lemuria sank under 
the Pacific Ocean ... while Atlantis was submerged by a series of inundations, the last of which occurred 
11,500 years ago, according to Plato's account, derived from ancient Egyptian records. Egypt was a 
colony of Atlantis to the East, just as the Aztec, Mayan and Inca empires were to the West.)  
Huguenin claims that the Atlanteans, who were far in advance of us in scientific development, flew the 
sky in aircraft utilizing a form of energy obtained directly from the atmosphere, and which were known as 
"vimanas," which were identical with what we know as flying saucers. Prior to the catastrophe that 
destroyed Atlantis, the Atlanteans found refuge in the Subterranean World in the hollow interior of the 
earth, to which they traveled on their "vimanas" or flying saucers, reaching it through the polar openings. 
Ever since then, their flying saucers remained in the earth's interior atmosphere and were used for 
purposes of transportation from one point in the interior concave world to another, for in this world, inside 
the crust of the earth, a straight aerial line is the shortest distance between any two points, no matter how 
far apart. It was only after the Hiroshima atomic explosion that these Atlantean aircraft rose to the surface 
for the first time, and were known as flying saucers. As we have pointed out previously, they came as an 
act of self-defense, to prevent radioactive pollution of the air they receive from the outside.  
Huguenin is convinced that flying saucers are not space ships from other planets, but Atlantean airships. 
It seems that throughout history, especially in ancient times, these aircraft occasionally rose to the 
surface, and some historical figures rode in them. Thus in the Indian epic, "Ramayana," there is a 
description of a Celestial Car of Rama, the great teacher of Vedic India, known as "vimana," a controlled 
aerial vehicle. It was capable of flying great distances. Rama's aerial record was a hop from Ceylon to 
Mount Kailas in Tibet. In the "Mahabharata," we read of Chrishna's enemies having built an aerial chariot 
with sides of iron and clad with wings. The "Smranagana Sutrahara" says that by means of skyships 
human beings can fly in the air and "heavenly beings" would come down to earth.  
That aerial navigation existed long before the making of the first modern airplane by the Wright brothers, 
the director of the International Academy of Sanskrit Investigation at Mysen, India, discovered an ancient 
treatise on aeronautics, which was written three thousand years ago. It was attributed to the Indu sage 
Bharadway, who wrote a manuscript called "Vymacrika Shastra," meaning "the Science of Aeronautics." It 
has eight chapters with diagrams, describing three types of aircraft, including apparatuses that could 
neither catch on fire nor break, and mentions thirty-one essential parts of these vehicles and sixteen 
materials from which they are constructed, which absorb light and heat, for which reason they were 
considered suitable for the construction of airplanes. It is interesting to note the similarity of the word 
"vymacrika" and "vimanas," indicating that the Hindus obtained their knowledge of aerial navigation from 
the subterranean Atlanteans who must have visited them in ancient times and taught them.  
From Brazil, where the theory of the subterranean origin of the flying saucers originated, it spread to the 
United States, where Ray Palmer, editor of "Flying Saucers" magazine became its enthusiastic 
proponent, abandoning his former belief in their interplanetary origin in favor of the new theory that they 
came from the hollow interior of the earth. In the December, 1959 issue of his magazine, he wrote:  
"In this issue we have presented the results of years of research, in which we advance the 
possibility that the flying saucers not only are from our own planet, and not from space, inner or 
outer, but there is a tremendous mass to evidence to show that there is an UNKNOWN location 
of vast dimensions which is, insofar as we can safely state at this writing, also unexplored, where 
the flying saucers can, and most probably do originate."  
In reference to the claims made by some flying saucer "contactees" that they were taken up on a flying 
saucer for a trip to Mars and other planets, Palmer says:  
"We've read all the accounts of such voyages and nowhere, in any of them, can we find positive 
evidence that space was traversed: In all these accounts, we can see where the passengers 
could have been taken to this 'unknown land' discovered by Admiral Byrd, and if told they were on 
Mars, they would not know the difference.  
"Provided an actual trip in a saucer was made, the pilots of the flying saucers could have 
simulated a space trip and instead took their passengers to `that mysterious land beyond the 
Pole,' as Admiral Byrd calls it.  
In an article, "Saucers From Earth: A Challenge to Secrecy;," in the Dec. 1959 issue of "Flying 
Saucers," Palmer writes:  
"Flying Saucers magazine has amassed a large file of evidence which its editors consider 
unassailable, to prove that the flying saucers are native to the planet Earth: that the governments 
of more than one nation know this to be a fact; that a concerted effort is being made to learn all 
about them, and to explore their native land; that the facts already known are considered so 
important that they are the world's top secret; that the danger is so great that to offer public proof 
is to risk widespread panic; that public knowledge would bring public demand for action, which 
would topple governments both helpless and unwilling to comply; that the inherent nature of the 
flying saucers and their origination area (in the earth's hollow interior, reached through the polar 
openings - Author) is completely disruptive to political and economic status-quo."  
As against the theory that flying saucers were made by any existing government, Palmer says, "Flying 
saucers have been with humanity for centuries, if not thousands of years." Their antiquity, he says, " 
eliminates contemporary earth governments as the originators of the mysterious phenomenon.  
After disproving that flying saucers come from any existing nation, Palmer attacks the theory of their 
interplanetary origin, whose chief proponent is the American flying saucer expert, Keyhoe, also some 
"contactees" who claim some flying saucers come from Mars, others from Venus, etc.  
After showing that flying saucers do not come from any existing nation or from other planets, Palmer, 
America's greatest authority on flying saucers, concludes, in agreement with Commander Strauss and 
Huguenin, that they come from the earth's hollow interior through the polar opening, so He writes:  
"In the opinion of the editors of `Flying Saucers,' this Polar origin of the flying saucers will now 
have to be factually disproved. Any denial must be accompanied with positive proof. `Flying 
Saucers' suggests that such proof cannot be provided. `Flying Saucers' takes the stand that all 
flying saucer groups should study the matter from the hollow earth viewpoint, amass all 
confirmatory evidence available in the last two centuries, and search diligently for any contrary 
evidence. Now that we have tracked the flying saucers to the most logical origin (the one we have 
consistently insisted must exist because of the insurmountable obstacles of interstellar origin, 
which demands factors beyond our imagination), that the flying saucers come from our own 
Earth, it must be proved or disproved, one way or the other.  
"Why? Because if the interior of the Earth is populated by a highly scientific and advanced race, 
we must make profitable contact with them; and if they are mighty in their science, which includes 
the science of war, we must not make enemies of them; and if it is the intent of our governments 
to regard the interior of the Earth as 'virgin territory,' and comparable to the `Indian Territory' of 
North America when the settlers came over to take it away from its rightful owners, it is right for 
the people to know that intent, and to express their desire in the matter.  
"The flying saucer has become the most important single fact in history. The answer to the 
questions raised in this article are to be answered. Admiral Byrd has discovered a new and 
mysterious land, the `center of the great unknown,' and the most important discovery of all time. 
We have it from his own lips, from a man whose integrity has always been unimpeachable, and 
whose mind was one of the most brilliant of modern times.  
"Let those who wish to call him a liar step forward and prove their claim: Flying saucers come 
from this Earth:"  
So ends Ray Palmer's great article, "Flying Saucers From the Earth," which created a sensation, causing 
certain government secret agencies to confiscate the magazine and stop its distribution, so that it did 
not reach its 5000 subscribers. Why? Obviously because the government was convinced that such an 
unclaimed, unknown territory, vast in extent, larger than the entire land surface of the earth, exists and 
wished its existence to be kept secret, so that no other nation would know about it or reach it before and 
claim this territory as its own. It was important that the Russians do not learn about it. For this reason it 
was decided to suppress this issue of "Flying Saucers" of December, 1959, which was mysteriously 
removed from circulation.  
Evidently the information contained in this magazine concerning the fact that flying saucers come from 
the earth's hollow interior through the polar openings, like news concerning Admiral Byrd's flights past the 
Poles into the new unknown territory beyond them, was considered dangerous to be released to the 
public and was consequently secretly suppressed by government authorities.  
Another outstanding American authority on flying saucers is Gray Barker. A month after Palmer published 
his sensational article expressing his belief that flying saucers do not come from outer space but from the 
earth's interior, Barker, in his "The Saucerian Bulletin," on January 15, 1960, wrote:  
"In the December 1951 issue of 'Flying Saucers' Ray Palmer came out with his findings. The 
theory had been advanced before, many years previously, in a book titled `A Journey to the 
Earth's Interior, Or Have the Poles Really Been Discovered?' now out of print and very rare. Many 
occult students, long before flying saucers became widely known about, believed that people 
lived inside the earth, emerging and entering through secret openings at the North and South 
Poles.  
"Palmer presented only the first of his evidences in the December 1959 issue. It consisted of a 
review of newspaper and radio accounts of Admiral Richard E. Byrd's flight to the North Pole in 
1947.  
"In February of that year, Byrd took off from an Arctic base and headed straight north to the Pole. 
Then Byrd kept flying north, beyond the Pole, and was amazed to discover iceless lands and 
lakes, mountains covered with trees, and even a monstrous animal moving through the 
underbrush below: For almost 1700 miles the plane flew over land, mountains, trees, lakes and 
rivers. After flying 1700 miles, he was forced to turn back because of his gasoline supply limit for 
the return trip. So he retraced the flight back to the Arctic base. Not much was thought about the 
unusual flight at the time.  
"Palmer then instructs the reader to look at the globe. According to Byrd's reported flight, he 
shouldn't have seen anything but ice-covered ocean or partially open water. Yet Byrd saw trees 
and other greenery. According to the globe, such a land just isn't there.  
"Palmer next discusses similar geographical discrepancies at the South Pole, and then draws the 
amazing conclusion: `The Earth is not spherical. Instead it is something like a though perhaps not 
so flattened. At each pole there is a huge opening, so large that when one travels "beyond" the 
Pole, he actually enters the lip of the hole of the doughnut-shaped earth. If he traveled far enough 
he would travel through the 'hole' of the 'doughnut' and emerge at the other Pole.  
"Palmer further suggests that people live on the `inside' of the earth, and that such people 
emerge from the Poles in flying saucers. He promises to present the remainder of the proofs 
later, but in the present issue of 'Flying Saucer," his case boils down to these main points:  
"(1) Measurements of areas at the North and South Poles are larger than you can find 
room for on a map or globe, leading to the assumption that such areas extend down into 
the 'doughnut.  
"(2) Some animals, particularly the musk-ox, migrate north in the wintertime, from the 
Arctic Circle. Foxes are found north of the 80th parallel, heading north, and appear well 
fed in a large area where there is no food available. (They go north because it becomes 
warmer and there is plant and animal life as they enter the polar opening - Author.)  
"(3) Arctic explorers agree it gets warmer as one heads north (after coming close enough 
to the North Pole).  
"(4) In the Arctic, coniferous trees drift ashore, from out of the north. Butterflies and bees 
are found in the far north, but never hundreds of miles south of that point.  
"(5) Remains of mammoths, perfectly preserved, were found in Siberia, with the sparse 
food of the sub-Arctic region in its stomach. Such food could not have supported the 
animal. It must have come from the `land beyond the Poles', Palmer postulates.  
"(6) Trouble with satellites shot over the South Pole bears out the theory that land areas 
haven't been measured accurately or that 'somebody' has been interfering with them.  
In this connection it is interesting to note that American newspapers, some time back, published a report 
of a mysterious artificial satellite discovered to encircle the earth in an orbit that passed directly over both 
Poles and which was sent by no known nation. Did it emerge from one of the Poles and continue to rotate 
around its point of origin?  
Gray Barker seems to agree with Palmer that flying saucers come from inside the earth; and in his 
editorial quoted above, he asks:  
"What if there could be some unknown race, on some unexplored portion of the earth, which is 
responsible for the flying saucers? Palmer' s articles started me to thinking along that direction once 
again. THE INNER EARTH EXPLANATION WOULD FIT INTO MOST, IF NOT ALL THE FACETS OF 
THE FLYING SAUCER PICTURE.  
"Various occult schools teach that polar entrances provide the doorways to cities of Agharta, the 
Subterranean World, such as Shamballah (the capital) and others. Let us accept, for a moment, 
that such a people has existed inside the earth for thousands of years, even before man - or 
maybe they seeded the outside with man. Maybe they have constantly watched over him, 
occasionally assisting him with technology, giving rise to what we now call `legends.' Maybe they 
built the Great Pyramid; maybe they are responsible for some of the 'miracles' reported in secular 
and religious histories. Until man, their protege, learned to be morally worthy, they would not wish 
to give him, suddenly, the knowledge of their existence or secrets of their technology.  
"When man, however, invented the atomic bomb, the people of the inner earth were greatly 
concerned about it. Maybe they feared that contamination of the atmosphere would reach them; 
maybe they feared man could blow up the earth entirely. Halting or controlling man's propensity 
for destruction would be a delicate problem unless they would come out openly and inform him of 
their existence. They figured that they would eventually have to do so, and began a slow process 
of indoctrination, first merely letting him see the flying saucers fly around. Since men thought that 
flying saucers came from outer space, they pretended to be space people contacting him in their 
craft, and trying to indoctrinate him with peaceful philosophy (the majority of `space people' 
contacted having spoken strongly against the atomic bomb)."  
In his book, "They Knew Too Much About Flying Saucers," Barker speaks of the "Antarctic Mystery" or 
the unusual number of flying saucers seen to ascend and descend in the region of the South Pole, which 
strongly supports the theory of a polar opening through which flying saucers emerge from and enter the 
hollow interior of the earth. In this book he mentions an Australian and New Zealand investigator, named 
Bender and Jarrold respectively, who believed that flying saucers originate and are based in the Antarctic 
and tried to trace their course, when they were suddenly stopped in their research by `three men in black,' 
who were secret government agents who apparently wished to suppress such research, just as publicity 
concerning Admiral Byrd's 2,300 mile flight to the new unknown territory not found on any map, that lies 
beyond the South Pole and inside the opening that leads to the earth's hollow interior, was suppressed in 
the press.  
Theodore Fitch is another American writer who believes that flying saucers come from the hollow interior 
of the earth. In his book, "Our Paradise Inside the Earth;" he writes:  
"Writers of books on flying saucers believe that they come from other planets. But how can that 
be? They are too far away. Traveling at terrific speeds it would take a lifetime to make the trip 
(especially from planets of other solar systems)."  
Fitch claims, as does Palmer, that the "spacemen" who came to us in flying saucers, who pose to be 
visitors from other planets, are really members of an advanced civilization in the hollow interior of the 
earth, who have important reasons for keeping their true place of origin secret, for which reason they 
purposely foster the false belief that they come from other planets. On this point, Fitch writes:  
"They say that they come from other planets, but we doubt it." He considers this a white lie in 
order to prevent militaristic governments from learning that on the opposite side of the earth's 
crust there exists an advanced civilization whose scientific attainments far surpass our own, 
which is reached by the polar openings. In this way they protect themselves from molestation or 
possible war between subterranean and surface races."  
Fitch agrees with Palmer that flying saucers are not "space ships," as Adamski claims, nor are their pilots 
"spacemen". Rather they are vehicles for atmospheric travel which come from the hollow interior of the 
earth in which they fly, connecting each part of the concave subterranean world with the other. As for the 
little brown men" seen in flying saucers, Fitch believes that they belong to the same subterranean race 
from which the Eskimos descended. Fitch is in agreement with William Reed and Marshall B. Gardner 
that the ancestors of the Eskimos came from the hollow interior of the Earth through the polar opening. 
Describing these little brown men, who are the pilots of the flying saucers, evidently serving a master race 
(Atlantean) which built them and sent them to us Fitch says:  
"Though smaller than we, they are stronger. Their grip is like a vice. One of them could quickly 
overpower a strong man. Their bodies are perfect in build. Both men and women dress neatly. 
Though not beautiful, they are nice lo·king. Not one of them looks to be over 30 years old. They 
say that they do not expect to ever die.  
"It would take a book to record the conversation that has taken place with the saucermen and 
women. Their speech is quick, sharp and right to the point. They seem to be very, very 
intelligent.. They talk freely and answer all questions, but they lie about things they do not want us 
to know (refusing to reveal their true subterranean origin and pretending to come from other 
planets, as Mars and Venus).  
"Here are a few brief statements or claims made by the little men and women who live inside the 
earth. They boast about their superior mentality and knowledge, and that they excel us in creative 
ability. They say they are far ahead of us from the standpoint of new inventions. For instance, 
they claim that their flying saucers are powered with `free energy' (meaning the electromagnetic 
energy of space, which is free and not like fuel used to supply our aircraft). They claim they obtain 
this `free energy' by exploding certain atoms by the action of the electromagnetic energy of space 
while in flight.  
"They say they are thousands of years ahead of us in all of the arts, such as painting, sculpture 
and architectural designing. Also they are ahead of us in their domestic and business 
management, in their agricultural techniques, and that their beautiful landscapes, parks, flower 
gardens, orchards and farms vastly surpass our own. They claim that they are far ahead of us in 
their knowledge of nutrition and diet.  
"They claim to live in luxury, yet have no class distinction and no poverty among them, nor need 
of police. They say that they know every language on earth."  
"Fitch's description of this super civilization in the hollow interior of the earth reminds one of 
Bulwer Lytton's subterranean Utopia described in his book, "The Coming Race." Lytton was a 
Rosicrucian and probably had access to occult information along this line. He described a super 
race inside the earth which lived in a state of universal abundance and contentment, free from 
greed, poverty and war."  
Fitch describes these people as living under an economic system by which they own all things in 
common, without private aggrandizement or hoarding, and without class distinctions of rich and poor, 
capitalist or worker. Also they have an equitable system of distribution free from exploitation and usury; 
and there is no poverty among them, since all are on a basis of perfect equality through a system of 
common ownership. They have no private property and work together cooperatively for their mutual 
welfare. Fitch writes:  
"They say they know all the secrets of every government. They say they are of higher intelligence 
and authority. Since they are our superiors they have authority over us. They claim to be experts 
in mental telepathy. They claim they came from an antediluvian race (Lemurian and Atlantean). 
They say they know nothing at all about our Jesus, and say our Bible has been mistranslated, 
misinterpreted and misconstrued. They claim that they are a race which has not fallen as we 
have... They say we should get rid of nuclear bombs and armaments.  
Agharta, The Subterranean World  
The word "Agharta" is of Buddhist origin. It refers to the Subterranean World or Empire in whose 
existence all true Buddhists fervently believe. They also believe that this Subterranean World has millions 
of inhabitants and many cities, all under the supreme domination of the subterranean world capital, 
Shamballah, where dwells the Supreme Ruler of this Empire, known in the Orient as the King of the 
World. It is believed that he gave his orders to the Dalai Lama of Tibet, who was his terrestrial 
representative, his messages being transmitted through certain secret tunnels connecting the 
Subterranean World with Tibet.  
Similar mysterious tunnels honeycomb Brazil. Brazil in the West and Tibet in the East seem to be the two 
parts of the Earth where contact between the Subterranean World and the surface world may be most 
easily achieved, due to the existence of these tunnels.  
The famous Russian artist, philosopher and explorer, Nicholas Roerich, who traveled extensively in the 
Far East, claimed that Lhasa, capital of Tibet, was connected by a tunnel with Shamballah, capital of the 
subterranean empire of Agharta. The entrance of this tunnel was guarded by lamas who were sworn to 
keep its actual whereabouts a secret from outsiders, by order of the Dalai Lama. A similar tunnel was 
believed to connect the secret chambers at the base of the Pyramid of Gizeh with the Subterranean 
World, by which the Pharaohs established contact with the gods or supermen of the underworld.  
The various gigantic statues of early Egyptian gods and kings, as those of Buddha found throughout the 
Orient, represent subterranean supermen who came to the surface to help the human race. They are 
generally represented as sexless. They were emissaries of Agharta, the subterranean paradise which it is 
the goal of all true Buddhists to reach.  
Buddhist traditions state that Agharta was first colonized many thousands of years ago when a holy man 
led a tribe which disappeared underground. The gypsies are supposed to come from Agharta, which 
explains their restlessness on the Earth's surface and their continual travels to regain their lost home. 
This reminds one of Noah, who was really an Atlantean, who saved a worthy group prior to the coming of 
the flood that submerged Atlantis. It is believed that he brought his group to the high plateau of Brazil 
where they settled in subterranean cities, connected with the surface by tunnels, in order to escape from 
poisoning by the radioactive fallout produced by the nuclear war the Atlanteans fought, which brought on 
the flood that submerged their continent.  
The aubterranean civilization oi Agharta is believed to represent a continuation of Atlantean civilization, 
which, having learned the lesson of the futility of war, remained in a state of peace ever since, making 
stupendous scientific progress uninterrupted by the setbacks of recurrent wars, as our surface civilization 
has been. Their civilization is many thousands of years old (Atlantls sank about 11,500 years ago), while 
ours is very young, only a few centuries old.  
Subterranean scientists are able to wield forces of nature we know nothing about, as demonstrated by 
their flying saucers, which are operated by a new, unknown source of energy, more subtle than atomic 
energy. Ossendowski claims that the Empire of Agharta consists of a network of subterranean cities 
connected with each other by tunnels through which vehicles pass at tremendous speed, both under land 
and under the ocean.  
These people live under the benign reign of a government headed by the King of the World. They 
represent descendants of the lost continents of Lemuria and Atlantis, as well as the original perfect race 
of Hyperboreans, the race of gods.  
During various epochs in history, the Aghartan supermen or gods came to the surface to teach the human 
race and save it from wars, catastrophies and destruction. The coming of the flying saucers soon after the 
first atomic explosion in Hiroshima represents another such visitation, but thls time the gods themselves 
did not appear among men, but they sent their emissaries.  
The Indian epic, "Ramayana" describes Rama as such an emissary from Agharta coming on an aerial 
vehicle, which was probably a flying saucer. A Chinese tradition speaks of divine teachers coming on 
aerial vehicles. Similarly, the founder ot the Inca dynasty, Manco Copac, came the same way.  
One of the greatest of Aghartan teachers in America was Quetzalcoatl, the great prophet of the Mayas 
and Aztecs and of the Indians of the Americas in general, both in South and North America. That he was 
a stranger among them, coming from a different race (Atlantean) is indicated by his being fair, while they 
were dark; his being tall, while they were short; his being bearded, while they were beardless. He was 
reverenced as a savior by the Indians of Mexico, Yucatan and Guatemala long before the coming of the 
white man. The Aztecs called him "God of Abundance" and the "Morning Star." His name Quetzalcoatl 
means "Feathered Serpent," meaning a teacher of wisdom (symbolized by the serpent) who flies. He was 
given this name because he came on an aerial vehicle, which appears to have been a flying saucer. He 
probably came from the Subterranean World, because after he remained some time with the Indians, he 
mysteriously vanished the same way as he came; and was believed to have returned to the Subterranean 
World from which he came.  
Quetzalcoatl is described as having been "a man of good appearance and grave countenance, with a 
white skin and beard, and dressed in a long flowing white garment. He was also called Huemac, because 
of his great goodness and continence. He taught the Indians the way of virtue and tried to save them from 
vice by giving them laws and counsel to restrain them from lust and to practice chastity. He taught 
pacifism and condemned violence in all forms. He instituted a vegetarian diet, with corn as a principal 
food, and taught fasting and body hygiene. According to the South American archeologist, Harold Wilkins, 
Quetzalcoatl was also the spiritual teacher of the ancient inhabitants of Brazil.  
After remaining some time with the Indians, and seeing how little they cared to follow his teachings, 
except his recommendation to plant and eat corn as a basic food in place of meat, Quetzalcoatl departed, 
telling them that some day he would return. That this "visitor from Heaven" left the same way in which he 
came - on a flying saucer - is indicated by the following facts. When Cortez invaded Mexico, the emperor 
Montezuma believed that the predicted "return of Quetzalcoatl" had occurred, because a fireball then 
gyrated over Mexico City, making the people wail and scream, setting the temple of the war god on fire. 
This fireball was believed to have been the flying saucer on which Quetzalcoatl traveled.  
Osiris was another such subterranean god. According to Donnelly, in his book, "Atlantis the 
Antediluvian World," the gods of the ancients were the rulers of Atlantis and members of a superhuman 
race which governed the human race. Before the destruction of their continent, which they foresaw, they 
traveled by flying saucer through the polar opening to the Subterranean World in the hollow interior of the 
earth, where they continued to live ever since.  
"The Empire of Agharta," wrote Ossendowski in his book "Beasts, Men and Gods," "extends through 
subterranean tunnels to all parts of the world." In this book he speaks of a vast network of tunnels 
constructed by a prehistoric race of remotest antiquity, which passed under both oceans and continents, 
through which swift-moving vehicles traveled. The empire of which Ossendowski speaks and concerning 
which he learned about from lamas in the Far East, during his travels in Mongolia, obviously consists of 
subterranean cities inside the earth's crust, which should be differentiated from those existing in its hollow 
center. Thus there are two subterranean worlds, one more superficial and one in the center of the earth.  
Huguenin, whose book on flying saucers and the subterranean world we previously mentioned, believes 
that there exist many subterranean cities at various depths, between the earth's crust and its hollow 
interior. Concerning the inhabitants of these subterranean cities, he writes:  
"This other humanity has reached an elevated grade of civilization, economic and social 
organization and cultural and scientific progress, in comparison with which the humanity which 
lives on the earth's surface are a race of barbarians."  
In his book, Huguenin shows a diagram of the earth's interior, showing various subterranean cities at 
various depths, connected with each other by tunnels. He describes these cities as existing in immense 
cavities in the earth. The city of Shamballah, the capital of the subterranean empire, he portrays as 
existing at the center of the earth, in its hollow interior, rather than inside its solid crust. Ossendowski 
writes:  
"All the subterranean caverns of America are inhabited by an ancient people who disappeared 
from the world. These people and the subterranean regions where they dwell are under the 
supreme authority of the King of the World. Both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans were once the 
home of vast continents which later became submerged; and their inhabitants found refuge in the 
Subterranean World. The profounder caverns are illuminated by a resplendent light which permits 
the growing of cereals and other vegetables, and gives the inhabitants a long life-span free from 
disease. In this world exists a large population and many tribes."  
In his book, "The Coming Race," Bulwer Lytton describes a subterranean civilization far in advance of 
our own, which existed in a large cavity in the earth, connected with the surface by a tunnel. This 
immense cavity was illuminated by a strange light which did not require lamps to produce it, but appeared 
to result from an electrification of the atmosphere. This light supported plant life and enabled the 
subterranean people to grow their foods. The inhabitants of the Utopia, described by Lytton were 
vegetarians. They had certain apparatuses by which, instead of walking, they flew. They were free from 
disease and had a perfect social organization so that each received what he needed, without exploitation 
of one by another.  
It is claimed that the earth's crust is honeycombed by a network of tunnels passing under the ocean from 
continent to continent and leading to subterranean cities in large cavities in the earth. These tunnels are 
especially abundant in South America, especially under Brazil, which was the chief center of Atlantean 
colonization; and we may believe they were constructed by the Atlanteans. Most famous of these tunnels 
is the "Roadway of the Incas" which stretches for several hundred miles south of Lima, Peru, and passes 
under Cuzco, Tiahuanaco and the Three Peaks, proceeding to the Atacambo Desert. Another branch 
opens in Arica, Chile, visited by Madame Blavatsky.  
It is claimed that the Incas used these tunnels to escape from the Spanish conquerors and the Inquisition, 
when entire armies entered them, carrying with them their gold and treasures on the backs of llamas, 
which they did when the Spanish Conquerors first came. Their mysterious disappearance at this time, 
leaving only the race of Quechua Indians behind, is also explained by their entering these tunnels. It is 
claimed that when Atahualpa, the last of the Inca kings, who was brutally murdered by Pizarro, the gold 
that was being carried to his ransom on a train of 11,000 pack llamas, found refuge in these tunnels. It is 
claimed that these tunnels had a form of artificial lighting and were built by the race that had constructed 
Tiahuanco long before the first Inca appeared in Peru.  
Since the Incas who entered these tunnels to escape from the Spaniards were never seen since and 
disappeared from the earth's surface, it is probable that they continued to live in illuminated subterranean 
cities to which these tunnels led.  
These mysterious tunnels, an enigma to archeologists, exist in greatest number under Brazil, where they 
open on the surface in various places. The most famous is in the Roncador Mountains of northeast Matto 
Grosso to where Colonel Fawcett was heading when last seen. It is claimed that the Atlantean city for 
which he searched was not the ruins of a dead city on the surface but a subterranean city with still living 
Atlanteans as its inhabitants; and that he and his son Jack reached this city and are still living therein. 
This is the belief of Professor de Souza, Commander Strauss and O. C. Huguenin, whom we have 
mentioned before.  
The Roncador tunnel opening is guarded by fierce Chavantes Indians who kill anyone who dares to enter 
uninvited and who might molest the subterranean dwellers whom they respect and reverence. The 
Murcego Indians also guard these secret tunnel openings leading to subterranean cities in the Roncador 
Mountain region of Matto Grosso. We quote a letter to the author from an American, named Carl Huni, 
who lived many years in Matto Grosso and made a special study of this subject:  
"The entrance to the caverns is guarded by Murcego Indians, who are a dark-skinned, undersized 
race of great physical strength. Their sense of smell is more developed than that of the best 
bloodhounds. Even if they approve of you and let you enter the caverns, I am afraid that you will 
be lost to the present world, because they guard the secret very carefully and may not let those 
who enter leave. (This may have happened to Colonel Fawcett and his son Jack, who are 
believed to have entered a tunnel leading to a subterranean city in the Roncador Mountains, 
never to return.)  
"The Murcego Indians live in caverns and go out at night into the surrounding jungles, but they 
have no contact with the subterranean dwellers below, inhabiting a subterranean city in which 
they form a seli-contained community and have a considerable population. It is believed that the 
subterranean cities they inhabit were first constructed by the Atlanteans. One thing is certain, that 
no radioactive fallout can reach them. No one knows whether those who live in these ancient 
Atlantean subterranean cities are Atlanteans themselves or others who settled there after their 
origlnal builders were gone.  
"The name of the mountain range where these Atlantean subterranean cities exist is Roncador in 
northeast Matto Grosso. If you go in quest of these subterranean cities, take your life in your own 
hands as you may never be heard of again, like Colonel Fawcett.  
"When I was in Brazil I heard a lot about the underground caverns and subterranean cities. They 
are, however, a long way from Cuiaba. They are near the Rio Araguaya, which empties into the 
Amazon. They are to the northeast of Cuiaba at the foot of the tremendously long mountain range 
named Roncador. I desisted to investigate further because I heard that the Murcego Indians 
jealously guard the entrance to the tunnels from people who are not sufficiently developed, 
because they do not want trouble. In the first place, they do not want anyone who is still 
enmeshed in commercialism and who has a desire for money.  
"There are also caverns in Asia and Tibetan travelers mention them. But as far as I know, in 
Brazil are the biggest ones and they exist at three different levels. I am sure I would get 
permission if I wanted to join them and they would accept me as one of theirs. I know they use no 
money at all, and their society is organized on a strictly democratic basis. People do not become 
aged and live in everlasting harmony."  
This subterranean Utopia mentioned by Mr Huni (now residing in New York) seems to resemble greatly 
the one described by Bulwer Lytton in his book, "The Coming Race." Lytton was a Rosicrucian and 
probably based his novel on occult information concerning existing subterranean cities.  
The ruins of a number of Atlantean cities were found in northern Matto Grosso and the Amazon territory, 
indicating that Atlanteans once colonized this country. Some years ago an English schoolteacher, hearing 
rumors of a lost Atlantean city on a high plateau in this region went to find it. He did, but the hardships of 
the journey cost his life. Before he died he sent by carrier pigeon a note describing a magnificent city he 
discovered whose streets were lined by high gold statues.  
If the Atlanteans once colonized Brazil and constructed cities in Matto Grosso on its surface, why did they 
build subterranean cities there? It could not have been to escape the deluge that submerged Atlantis and 
outlying areas, because Matto Grosso is a high plateau where floodwaters could not have reached. The 
South American archeologist, Harold Wilkins, offers another theory: that the subterranean cities were built 
to escape the radioactive fallout resulting from a nuclear war the Atlanteans fought. This seems to be a 
very reasonable explanation, or otherwise here would be no reason to undergo the great labor of 
excavating the earth and constructing subterranean cities when the Atlanteans already had magnificent 
cities on the earth's surface.  
If and when we are endangered by a nuclear war, we, too, will have to find refuge inside the earth and 
dwell there in illuminated subterranean cities and produce our foods under this light. It would of course be 
much easier to join existing subterranean cities constructed by the Atlanteans thousands of years ago, 
who vastly surpassed us in engineering skill, than to construct our own. If friendly contact with 
subterranean dwellers could be established, when war came, or even before, when radioactive fallout 
increases beyond the danger point and menaces our survival, ft would be to our advantage to contact 
these subterranean cities and, if we are admitted, to establish residence in them.  
There is no old age in Agharta and no death. It is a society in which everyone is young looking, even if 
many centuries or even thousands of years of age. This seems incredible to surface dwellers exposed to 
the harmful effects of solar radiation and the autointoxication of food poisoning from a wrong diet. The 
symptoms of old age are not the natural result of the passage of time nor an assumed aging process, but 
to adverse biological conditions and habits. Senility is a disease; and since Aghartans are free from 
disease, they do not grow old.  
The superior scientitic culture of the subterranean people, of which their flying saucers are an evident 
example, is the result of superior brain development and more energetic brains. This is due to the fact 
that their vital energies flow up to their brain, rather than being dissipated through the sexual channel as 
among so-called "civilized" surtace races. In fact, sex indulgence is completely out of their lives, because 
of their fruit diet, their endocrines are in a state of perfect balance and harmonious functioning, as in little 
children, and are not stimulated to abnormal activity by metabolic toxins, as produced by such foods as 
meat, fowl, fish and eggs and by such aphrodisiacs as salt, pepper, coffee, tobacco and alcohol. By 
keeping their blood-stream pure and free from toxins, the subterranean people are able to live in 
complete continence, conserving all vital energies and converting them into superior brain power. Their 
superior scientific achievements result from the fact that their brains are superior to ours in intellectual 
development.  
Concerning Agharta, Professor Henrique J. de Souza, President of the Brazilian Theosophical Society 
and a leading authority on the Subterranean World, in his magazine, published an article he wrote, "Does 
Shangri-la Exist?" from which we quote:  
"Among all races of mankind, back to the dawn of time, there existed a tradition concerning the 
existence of a Sacred Land or Terrestrial Paradise, where the highest ideals of humanity were 
living realities. This concept is found in the most ancient writings and traditions of the peoples of 
Europe, Asia Minor, China, India, Egypt and the Americas. This Sacred Land, it is said, can be 
known only to persons who are worthy, pure and innocent, for which reason it constitutes the 
central theme of the dreams of childhood.  
"The road that leads to this Blessed Land, this Invisible World, this Esoteric and Occult Domain, 
constitutes the central quest and master key of all mystery teachings and systems of initiation in 
the past, present and future. This magic key is the `Open Sesame' that unlocks the door to a new 
and marvelous world. The old Rosicrucians designated it by the French word VITRIOL, which is a 
combination of the first letters of the sentence: `VISTA INTERIORA TERRAE RECTIFICANDO 
INYENES OMNIA LAPIDEM,' to indicate that `in the interior of the earth is hidden the true 
MYSTERY ' The path that leads to this Hidden World is the Way of Initiation.  
"In ancient Greece, in the Mysteries of Delphos and Eleusis, this Heavenly Land was referred to 
as Mount Olympus and the Elysian Fields. Also in the earliest Vedic times, it was called by 
various names, such as Ratnasanu (peak of the precious stone), Hermadri (mountain of gold) 
and Mount Meru (home of the gods and Olympus of the Hindus). Symbolically, the peak of this 
sacred mountain is in the sky, its middle portion on the earth and its base in the Subterranean 
World.  
"The Scandinavian Eddas also mention this celestial city, which was in the subterranean land of 
Asar of the peoples of Mesopotamia. It was the Land of Amenti of the Sacred Book of the Dead of 
the ancient Egyptians. It was the city of Seven Petals o! Vishnu, and the City of the Seven Kings 
of Edom or Eden of Judaic tradition. In other words, it was the Terrestrial Paradise.  
"In all Asia Minor, not only in the past but also today, there exists a belief in the existence of a 
City of Mystery full of marvels, which is known as SHAMBALLAH (Shamb-Allah), where is the 
Temple of the Gods. It is also the Erdamf of the Tibetans and Mongols.  
"The Persians call it Alberdi or Aryana, land of their ancestors. The Hebrews called it Canaan and 
the Mexicans Tula or Tolan, while the Aztecs called it Maya-Pan. The Spanish Conquerors who 
came to America believed in the existance of such a city and organized many expeditions to find 
it, calling it E1 Dorado, or City of Gold. They probably learned about it from the aborigines who 
called it by the name of Manoa or City Whose King Wears Clothing of Gold.  
"By the Celts, this holy land was known as "Land of the Mysteries" - Duat or Dananda. A Chinese 
tradition speaks of Land of Chivin or the City of a Dozen Serpents. It is the Subterranean World, 
which lies at the roots of heaven. It is the Land of Calcas, Calcis or Kalki, the famous Colchida for 
which the Argonauts sought when they set out in search of the Golden Fleece.  
"In the Middle Ages, it was referred to as the Isle of Avalon, where the Knights of the Round 
Table, under the leadership of King Arthur and under the guidance of the Magician Merlin, went in 
search of the Holy Grail, symbol of obedience, justice and immortality. When King Arthur was 
seriously wounded in a battle, he requested his companion Belvedere to depart on a boat to the 
confines of the earth, with the following words: `Farewell, my friend and companion Belvedere, 
and to the land where it never rains, where there fs no sickness and where nobody dies.' This is 
the Land of Immortality or Agharta, the Subterranean World.  
This land is the Walhalla of the Germans, the Monte Salvat of the Knights of the Holy Grail, the Utopia of 
Thomas More, the City of the Sun of Campanella, the Shangri-la of Tibet and the Agharta of the Buddhist 
world."  
The Flight to the Land Beyond the North Pole 
A Copy Of The Diary of Admiral Richard B. BYRD  
The reader of the following documentation should find a striking example of dire devotion. Especially 
when one considers that this log diary was written in the year 1947 in the months of February and March, 
under circumstances that evidently defied the imagination and credibility, for those times as any others. 
Here is dealt with the evident answers the origin of the so called UFOs, as well as the Hollow Earth, or as 
the admiral described.  
THE LAND BEYOND THE POLES  
The reader will relive that period as he reads this document. To say it is fascinating is to place it mildly, 
but to read it now for yourself, I know that you will conclude, in the Admirals own words "Just as the long 
night of the Arctic ends, the brilliant sunshine of truth shall come forth again, and those who are of 
Darkness shall fall in its Light".  
ADMIRAL RICHARD B. BYRD'S DIARY (FEB - MAR. 1947)  
THE EXPLORATION FLIGHT OVER THE NORTH POLE  
("The Inner Earth: My Secret Diary")  
I must write this diary in secrecy and obscurity. It concerns my Arctic flight of the nineteenth day of 
February in the year of Nineteen and Forty Seven.  
There comes a time when the rationality of men must fade into insignificance and one must accept the 
inevitability of the Truth! I am not at liberty to disclose the following documentation at this writing... 
perhaps it shall never see the light of public scrutiny, but I must do my duty and record here for all to read 
one day. In a world of greed and exploitation of certain of mankind, one can no longer suppress that 
which is truth.  
FLIGHT LOG: BASE CAMP ARCTIC, 2/19/1947  
0600 HOURS- All preparations are complete for our flight north ward and we are airborne with full 
fuel tanks at 0610 Hours.  
0620 HOURS- fuel mixture on starboard engine seems too rich, adjustment made and Pratt 
Whittneys are running smoothly.  
0730 HOURS- Radio Check with base camp. All is well and radio reception is normal.  
0740 HOURS- Note slight oil leak in starboard engine, oil pressure indicator seems normal, 
however.  
0800 HOURS- Slight turbulence noted from easterly direction at altitude of 2321 feet, correction 
to 1700 feet, no further turbulence, but tail wind increases, slight adjustment in throttle controls, 
aircraft performing very well now.  
0815 HOURS- Radio Check with base camp, situation normal.  
0830 HOURS- Turbulence encountered again, increase altitude to 2900 feet, smooth flight 
conditions again.  
0910 HOURS- Vast Ice and snow below, note coloration of yellowish nature, and dispersed in a 
linear pattern. Altering course for a better examination of this color pattern below, note reddish or 
purple color also. Circle this area two full turns and return to assigned compass heading. Position 
check made again to base camp, and relay information concerning colorations in the Ice and 
snow below.  
0910 HOURS- Both Magnetic and Gyro compasses beginning to gyrate and wobble, we are 
unable to hold our heading by instrumentation. Take bearing with Sun compass, yet all seems 
well. The controls are seemingly slow to respond and have sluggish quality, but there is no 
indication of Icing!  
0915 HOURS- In the distance is what appears to be mountains.  
0949 HOURS- 29 minutes elapsed flight time from the first sighting of the mountains, it is no 
illusion. They are mountains and consisting of a small range that I have never seen before!  
0955 HOURS- Altitude change to 2950 feet, encountering strong turbulence again.  
1000 HOURS- We are crossing over the small mountain range and still proceeding northward as 
best as can be ascertained. Beyond the mountain range is what appears to be a valley with a 
small river or stream running through the center portion. There should be no green valley below! 
Something is definitely wrong and abnormal here! We should be over Ice and Snow! To the 
portside are great forests growing on the mountain slopes. Our navigation Instruments are still 
spinning, the gyroscope is oscillating back and forth!  
1005 HOURS- I alter altitude to 1400 feet and execute a sharp left turn to better examine the 
valley below. It is green with either moss or a type of tight knit grass. The Light here seems 
different. I cannot see the Sun anymore. We make another left turn and we spot what seems to 
be a large animal of some kind below us. It appears to be an elephant! NO!!! It looks more like a 
mammoth! This is incredible! Yet, there it is! Decrease altitude to 1000 feet and take binoculars to 
better examine the animal. It is confirmed - it is definitely a mammoth-like animal! Report this to 
base camp.  
1030 HOURS- Encountering more rolling green hills now. The external temperature indicator 
reads 74 degrees Fahrenheit! Continuing on our heading now. Navigation instruments seem 
normal now. I am puzzled over their actions. Attempt to contact base camp. Radio is not 
functioning!  
1130 HOURS- Countryside below is more level and normal (if I may use that word). Ahead we 
spot what seems to be a city! This is impossible! Aircraft seems light and oddly buoyant. The 
controls refuse to respond! My GOD! Off our port and star board wings are a strange type of 
aircraft. They are closing rapidly alongside! They are disc-shaped and have a radiant quality to 
them. They are close enough now to see the markings on them. It is a type of Swastika!!! This is 
fantastic. Where are we! What has happened. I tug at the controls again. They will not respond! 
We are caught in an invisible vice grip of some type!  
1135 HOURS- Our radio crackles and a voice comes through in English with what perhaps is a 
slight Nordic or Germanic accent! The message is: "Welcome, Admiral, to our domain. We shall 
land you in exactly seven minutes! Relax, Admiral, you are in good hands." I note the engines of 
our plane have stopped running! The aircraft is under some strange control and is now turning 
itself. The controls are useless.  
1140 HOURS- Another radio message received. We begin the landing process now, and in 
moments the plane shudders slightly, and begins a descent as though caught in some great 
unseen elevator! The downward motion is negligible, and we touch down with only a slight jolt!  
1145 HOURS- I am making a hasty last entry in the flight log. Several men are approaching on 
foot toward our aircraft. They are tall with blond hair. In the distance is a large shimmering city 
pulsating with rainbow hues of color. I do not know what is going to happen now, but I see no 
signs of weapons on those approaching. I hear now a voice ordering me by name to open the 
cargo door. I comply.  
END LOG  
From this point I write all the following events here from memory. It defies the imagination and would 
seem all but madness if it had not happened.  
The radioman and I are taken from the aircraft and we are received in a most cordial manner. We were 
then boarded on a small platform-like conveyance with no wheels! It moves us toward the glowing city 
with great swiftness. As we approach, the city seems to be made of a crystal material. Soon we arrive at a 
large building that is a type I have never seen before. It appears to be right out of the design board of 
Frank Lloyd Wright, or perhaps more correctly, out of a Buck Rogers setting!! We are given some type of 
warm beverage which tasted like nothing I have ever savored before. It is delicious.  
After about ten minutes, two of our wondrous appearing hosts come to our quarters and announce that I 
am to accompany them. I have no choice but to comply. I leave my radioman behind and we walk a short 
distance and enter into what seems to be an elevator. We descend downward for some moments, the 
machine stops, and the door lifts silently upward! We then proceed down a long hallway that is lit by a 
rose-colored light that seems to be emanating from the very walls themselves! One of the beings motions 
for us to stop before a great door. Over the door is an inscription that I cannot read. The great door slides 
noiselessly open and I am beckoned to enter. One of my hosts speaks. "Have no fear, Admiral, you are to 
have an audience with the Master..."  
I step inside and my eyes adjust to the beautiful coloration that seems to be filling the room completely. 
Then I begin to see my surroundings. What greeted my eyes is the most beautiful sight of my entire 
existence. It is in fact too beautiful and wondrous to describe. It is exquisite and delicate. I do not think 
there exists a human term that can describe it in any detail with justice!  
My thoughts are interrupted in a cordial manner by a warm rich voice of melodious quality, "I bid you 
welcome to our domain, Admiral." I see a man with delicate features and with the etching of years upon 
his face. He is seated at a long table. He motions me to sit down in one of the chairs. After I am seated, 
he places his fingertips together and smiles. He speaks softly again, and conveys the following:  
"We have let you enter here because you are of noble character and well-known on the Surface 
World, Admiral." Surface World, I half-gasp under my breath! "Yes," the Master replies with a 
smile, `you are in the domain of the Arianni, the Inner World of the Earth. We shall not long delay 
your mission, and you will be safely escorted back to the surface and for a distance beyond. But 
now, Admiral, I shall tell you why you have been summoned here. Our interest rightly begins just 
after your race exploded the first atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan. It was at 
that alarming time we sent our flying machines, the `Flugelrads,' to your surface world to 
investigate what your race had done. That is, of course, past history now, my dear Admiral, but I 
must continue on.  
"You see, we have never interfered before in your race's wars, and barbarity, but now we must, 
for you have learned to tamper with a certain power that is not for man, namely, that of atomic 
energy. Our emissaries have already delivered messages to the powers of your world, and yet 
they do not heed. Now you have been chosen to be witness here that our world does exist. You 
see, our Culture and Science is many thousands of years beyond your race, Admiral."  
I interrupted, "But what does this have to do with me, Sir?"  
The Master's eyes seemed to penetrate deeply into my mind, and after studying me for a few moments 
he replied,  
"Your race has now reached the point of no return, for there are those among you who would 
destroy your very world rather than relinquish their power as they know it..."  
I nodded, and the Master continued,  
"In 1945 and afterward, we tried to contact your race, but our efforts were met with hostility, our 
Flugelrads were fired upon. Yes, even pursued with malice and animosity by your fighter planes. 
So, now, I say to you, my son, there is a great storm gathering in your world, a black fury that will 
not spend itself for many years. There will be no answer in your arms, there will be no safety in 
your science. It may rage on until every flower of your culture is trampled, and all human things 
are leveled in vast chaos. Your recent war was only a prelude of what is yet to come for your 
race. We here see it more clearly with each hour..do you say I am mistaken?"  
"No," I answer, "it happened once before, the dark ages came and they lasted for more than five 
hundred years."  
"Yes, my son," replied the Master, "the dark ages that will come now for your race will cover the 
Earth like a pall, but I believe that some of your race will live through the storm, beyond that, I 
cannot say. We see at a great distance a new world stirring from the ruins of your race, seeking 
its lost and legendary treasures, and they will be here, my son, safe in our keeping. When that 
time arrives, we shall come forward again to help revive your culture and your race. Perhaps, by 
then, you will have learned the futility of war and its strife...and after that time, certain of your 
culture and science will be returned for your race to begin anew. You, my son, are to return to the 
Surface World with this message....."  
With these closing words, our meeting seemed at an end. I stood for a moment as in a dream....but, yet, I 
knew this was reality, and for some strange reason I bowed slightly, either out of respect or humility, I do 
not know which.  
Suddenly, I was again aware that the two beautiful hosts who had brought me here were again at my 
side. "This way, Admiral," motioned one. I turned once more before leaving and looked back toward the 
Master. A gentle smile was etched on his delicate and ancient face. "Farewell, my son," he spoke, then 
he gestured with a lovely, slender hand a motion of peace and our meeting was truly ended.  
Quickly, we walked back through the great door of the Master's chamber and once again entered into the 
elevator. The door slid silently downward and we were at once going upward. One of my hosts spoke 
again, "We must now make haste, Admiral, as the Master desires to delay you no longer on your 
scheduled timetable and you must return with his message to your race."  
I said nothing. All of this was almost beyond belief, and once again my thoughts were interrupted as we 
stopped. I entered the room and was again with my radioman. He had an anxious expres sion on his 
face. As I approached, I said, "It is all right, Howie, it is all right." The two beings motioned us toward the 
awaiting conveyance, we boarded, and soon arrived back at the aircraft. The engines were idling and we 
boarded immediately. The whole atmosphere seemed charged now with a certain air of urgency. After the 
cargo door was closed the aircraft was immediately lifted by that unseen force until we reached an 
altitude of 2700 feet.  
Two of the aircraft were alongside for some distance guiding us on our return way. I must state here, the 
airspeed indicator registered no reading, yet we were moving along at a very rapid rate.  
ENTRY IN FLIGHT LOG CONTINUES:  
215 HOURS- A radio message comes through. "We are leaving you now, Admiral, your controls 
are free. Auf Wiedersehen!" We watched for a moment as the flugelrads disappeared into the 
pale blue sky. The aircraft suddenly felt as though caught in a sharp downdraft for a moment. We 
quickly recovered her control. We do not speak for some time, each man has his thoughts....  
220 HOURS- We are again over vast areas of ice and snow, and approximately 27 minutes from 
base camp. We radio them, they respond. We report all conditions normal....normal. Base camp 
expresses relief at our re-established contact.  
300 HOURS- We land smoothly at base camp. I have a mission.....  
END LOG ENTRIES.  
MARCH 11, 1947. I have just attended a staff meeting at the Pentagon. I have stated fully my discovery 
and the message from the Master. All is duly recorded. The President has been advised. I am now 
detained for several hours (six hours, thirty-nine minutes, to be exact.) I am interviewed intently by Top 
Security Forces and a medical team. It was an ordeal! I am placed under strict control via the national 
security provisions of this United States of America. I am ORDERED TO REMAIN SILENT IN REGARD 
TO ALL THAT I HAVE LEARNED, ON THE BEHALF OF HUMANITY! Incredible! I am reminded that I am 
a military man and I must obey orders.  
30/12/56: FINAL ENTRY:  
These last few years elapsed since 1947 have not been kind...I now make my final entry in this singular 
diary. In closing, I must state that I have faithfully kept this matter secret as directed all these years. It has 
been completely against my values of moral right. Now, I seem to sense the long night coming on and 
this secret will not die with me, but as all truth shall, it will triumph and so it shall.  
This can be the only hope for mankind. I have seen the truth and it has quickened my spirit and has set 
me free! I have done my duty toward the monstrous military industrial complex. Now, the long night 
begins to approach, but there shall be no end. Just as the long night of the Arctic ends, the brilliant 
sunshine of Truth shall come again....and those who are of darkness shall fall in it's Light..FOR I HAVE 
SEEN THAT LAND BEYOND THE POLE, THAT CENTER OF THE GREAT UNKNOWN.  
ADMIRAL RICHARD E. BYRD United States Navy 24 December 1956  
Subterranean Cities  
We have indicated previously that the subterranean cities of Agharta were constructed by Atlanteans as 
refugees from the radioactive fallout produced by the nuclear war they fought, and also referred to 
Huguenin's theory that flying saucers were Atlantean aircraft which were brought to the Subterranean 
World prior to the occurrence of the catastrophe that sank Atlantis. The abandonment of their former 
home on top of the four-sided sacred mountain in the center of Atlantis (Mount Olympus or Meru, later 
memorialized by the four-sided, truncated pyramids of Egypt and Mexico) and their skyward journey over 
the Rainbow Bridge of the Aurora Borealis, through the polar opening, to the new home in Walhalla, the 
golden palaces of the city of Shamballah, capital of Agharta, the Subterranean World.  
This migration of the Atlantean god-rulers to the Subterranean World, prior to the destruction of Atlantis, 
was referred to in Teutonic mythology as the "Gotterdamerung" or Twilight of the Gods. They made the 
journey in flying saucers, which were Atlantean aircraft.  
Whereas, in the days of Atlantis, flying saucers flew in the Earth's outer atmosphere, after they entered 
the Subterranean World they continued to fly in its internal atmosphere in its hollow interior. After the 
Hiroshima atomic explosion in 1945 they rose again to the surface in numbers, seeking to avert a nuclear 
catastrophe. The tragedy that befell Atlantis was due to its scientific development running ahead of its 
moral development, resulting in a nuclear war, which heated the atmosphere, melted polar ice caps and 
brought on a terrific deluge that submerged the continent. A group of survivors, led by Noah, found refuge 
in the highlands of Brazil (then an Atlantean colony), where they constructed subterranean cities, 
connected by tunnels to the surface, to prevent destruction by radioactive fallout and flood.  
According to Plato's account, Atlantis was submerged by a series of inundations which came to a climax 
about 11,500 years ago. Some four million inhabitants lost their lives. Those who were more spiritual and 
were forewarned escaped in time to Brazil, where, it is claimed, they or their descendants still live in 
subterranean cities.  
In this connection it is interesting to refer to Jules Verne's book, "A JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE 
EARTH," which presents a similar conception of the earth's formation as did Gardner's book by a similar 
name. Verne describes a party of explorers who entered a volcanic shaft, and after traveling for months, 
finally came to the hollow center of the earth, a new world with its own sun to illuminate it, oceans, land 
and even cities of Atlantean origin. Verne believed that prior to the destruction of Atlantis, some of the 
Atlanteans escaped and established subterranean cities in the earth's hollow center. Since most of 
Verne's predictions were later verified, it is possible that this one also will be - but not by entering a 
volcanic shaft, but by an aerial expedition through the polar openings into the hollow interior of the earth.  
One of the early German settlers in Santa Catarina, Brazil, wrote and published a book in old German, 
dealing with the Subterranean World, deriving his information from the Indians. The book described the 
Earth as being hollow, with a sun in its center. The interior of the earth was said to be inhabited by a 
disease-free, long-lived race of fruitarians. This Subterranean World, the book claimed, was connected by 
tunnels with the surface, and these tunnels, it was claimed, open mostly in Santa Catarina and 
surrounding parts of South Brazil.  
The author has devoted nearly six years to investigations to study the mysterious tunnels which 
honeycomb Santa Catarina, obviously built by an ancient race to reach subterranean cities. Research is 
still in progress...  
The Russian explorer, Ferdinand Ossendowski, author of "Beasts, Men and Gods," claims that the 
tunnels which encircle the earth and which pass under the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, were built by men 
of a pre-glacial Hyperborean civilization which flourished in the polar region at a time when its climate was 
still tropical, a race of supermen possessing scientific powers of a superior order, and marvelous 
inventions, including tunnel-boring machines we know nothing about, by means of which they 
honeycombed the earth with tunnels. We shall now quote from Ossendowski's remarkable book relating 
his own experiences in Mongolia; where belief in the existence of a Subterranean World of Agharta, ruled 
by the King of the World, who resides in his holy city of Shamballah, is universal. Ossendowski writes:  
"`Stop' said my Mongol guide, when we crossed the plateau of Tzagan Luk, `Stop.'  
"His camel bowed down without the need of him ordering it. The Mongol raised his hands in a 
gesture of adoration and repeated the sacred phrase: "OM MANI PADME HUM "  
"The other Mongols immediately stopped their camels and began to pray.  
`"What happened?' I wondered, bringing my camel to a halt.  
"The Mongols prayed for some moments, then mounted their camels and rode on.  
"`Look;' said the Mongol to me, `how the camels move their ears with terror, how the manes of 
the horses remain immobile and alert and how the camels and cattle bow down to the ground. 
Note how the birds stop flying or the dogs barking. The air vibrates sweetly and one hears a song 
that penetrates to the hearts of all men, animals and birds. All living beings, seized with fear, 
prostrate themselves. For the King of the World, in his subterranean palace, is prophesying the 
future of the peoples of all the earth.'  
"Thus spoke the old Mongol.  
"Mongolia, with its terrible mountains and limitless plateaus was born a mystery which was 
preserved by the red and yellow lamas. The rulers of Lhasa and Ourga guarded this science and 
possessed these mysteries. It was during my trip to Central Asia that I heard for the first time this 
Mystery of Mysteries, to which I formerly paid no attention, but only did later, when I was able to 
analyze it and compare certain testimonies frequently subjected to controversy. The old men on 
the border of Amyil told me an old legend, according to which a Mongolian tribe, seeking to 
escape from Genghis Khan, hid in a subterranean land. Later, near Nogan Lake, I was shown by 
Soyota a door which served as the entrance to the kingdom of Agharta.  
"It was through this door that a hunter entered into this region and, after he returned told of his 
visit. The lamas cut off his tongue to prevent him from speaking about the Mystery of Mysteries. 
In his old age, he returned to the entrance of the cavern and disappeared into the Subterranean 
World, which memory always brought emotion to the nomad.  
"I obtained more detailed information from Houtouktou Jelyl Djamsrap de Narabanch Kure. He 
told me the history of the arrival of the all-powerful King of the World to the door of exit of the 
Subterranean World, his appearance, his miracles and prophecies. I then commenced to 
understand this legend, this hypothesis, this collective vision, which, no matter how we interpret it, 
conceals not only a mystery but a real force which governs and influences the course of the 
political life of Asia. From that moment, I commenced my investigations. The lama Gelong, 
favorite of Prince Choultoun Beyli, gave me a description of the Subterranean World.  
"More than six thousand years ago, he said, a holy man disappeared into the earth accompanied 
by a tribe of people and never returned to its surface. This inner world was also visited by various 
other men, as Cakya-Muni, Undur-Ghengen Paspa, Baber and others. No one knows where they 
found the entrance. Some say it was in Afghanistan, others say it was in India.  
"All inhabitants of this region are protected against evil, and no crime exists within its boundaries. 
Science developed tranquilly, uninterrupted by war and free from the spirit of destruction. 
Consequently the subterranean people were able to achieve a much higher degree of wisdom. 
They compose a vast empire with millions of inhabitants governed by the King of the World. He 
masters all the forces of nature, can read what is within the souls of all, and in the great book of 
destiny. Invisibly he rules over eight hundred million human beings, all willing to execute his 
orders.  
"All the subterranean passages in the entire world lead to the World of Agharta. The lamas say 
that all the subterranean cavities in America are inhabited by this people. The inhabitants of 
submerged prehistoric continents (Lemuria and Atlantis) found refuge and continued to live in the 
Subterranean World.  
"The lama Turgut, who made the trip from Ourga to Pekin with me, gave me further details: The 
capital of Agharta (Shamballah) is surrounded by villas where live the Holy Sages. It reminds one 
of Lhasa, where the temple of the Dalai Lama rises on top of a mountain surrounded by temples 
and monasteries. His palace is surrounded by the palaces of the Gurus, who control the visible 
and invisible forces of the earth, from its interior to the sky, and are lords of life and death. If our 
crazy humanity will continue its wars, they may come to the surface and transform it into a desert. 
They can dry the oceans, transform continents into seas and cause the disappearance of 
mountains. In strange vehicles, unknown above, they travel at unbelievable speed through 
tunnels inside the earth. The lamas found vestiges of these men in all parts and in inscriptions on 
rocks; and saw remains of the wheels of their vehicles.  
"When I asked him to tell me how many persons visited Agharta, the lama answered: `A great 
number, but most of those who were there maintain the secret as long as they live. When the 
Olets destroyed Lhasa, one of their regiments, in the mountains of the southwest, reached the 
limits of Agharta and were then instructed in mysterious sciences, for which reason the Olets and 
Talmuts became prophets. Certain black tribes of the east also entered Agharta and continued to 
live there for centuries. Later they were expulsed from the Subterranean World and returned to 
live on the surface of the earth, bringing with them knowledge of the mystery of prophecy by 
means of cards and reading the lines of the hand. (They were the ancestors of the gypsies.) In a 
certain region in the north of Asia there exists a tribe which is on the verge of disappearing and 
which frequents the caverns of Agharta. Its members can invoke the spirits of dead which live in 
space.'  
"The lama then remained silent some time and then, responding to my thoughts, continued: `In 
Agharta, the sages write on stone tablets all the sciences of our planet and of other worlds. The 
Chinese Buddhist sages know that well. Their science is the most advanced and purest. In each 
century the sages of China united in a secret place near the sea and on the backs of a hundred 
large turtles that come out of the ocean they write the conclusions of the divine science of their 
century.'  
"This brings to my mind a story that was related to me by an old Chinese attendant in the Temple 
of Heaven in Pekin. He told me that turtles live for three thousand years without air or food and 
for this reason all the columns of the blue Temple of Heaven rest on the backs of living turtles, so 
that wooden supports would not rot.  
"Many times did the rulers of Ourga and Lhasa send ambassadors to the King of the World, said 
the lama librarian, but they could not reach him. However, a Tibetan chief, after a battle with the 
Olets, came to a cavern whose opening bore the following inscription: "`THIS DOOR LEADS TO 
AGHARTA.'  
"From the cavern left a man of beautiful appearance, who presented to him a Golden tablet 
bearing strange inscriptions, saying:  
"`The King of the World will appear to all men when comes the time of the war of the good 
against the evil; but this time has not yet come. The worst members of the human race have yet 
to be born.'  
"Chang Chum Ungern sent young Prince Pounzig as an ambassador to the King of the World. 
The ambassador returned with a letter for the Dalai Lama of Lhasa. He wished to send him a 
second time but the young ambassador never returned."  
CONCLUSION  
From the evidence contained in this book, confirmed by many Arctic explorers whom we cite, we come to 
the following conclusions:  
1. There is really no North or South Pole. Where they are supposed to exist there are really wide 
openings to the hollow interior of the Earth.  
2. Flying saucers come from the hollow interior of the Earth through these polar openings.  
3. The hollow interior of the earth, warmed by its central sun (the source of Aurora Borealis) has an ideal 
subtropical climate of about 76 degrees in temperature, neither too hot nor too cold.  
4. Arctic explorers found the temperature to rise as they traveled far north; they found more open seas; 
they found animals traveling north in winter, seeking food and warmth, when they should have gone 
south; they found the compass needle to assume a vertical position instead of a horizontal one and to 
become extremely eccentric; they saw tropical birds and more animal life the further north they went; they 
saw butterflies, mosquitoes and other insects in the extreme north, when they were not found until one is 
as far south as Alaska and Canada; they found the snow discolored by colored pollen and black dust, 
which became worse the further north they went. The only explanation is that this dust came from active 
volcanoes in the polar opening.  
5. There is a large population inhabiting the inner concave surface of the Earth's crust, composing a 
civilization far in advance of our own in its scientific achievements, which probably descended from the 
sunken continents of Lemuria and Atlantis. Flying saucers are only one of their many achievements. It 
would be to our advantage to contact these Elder Brothers of the human race, learn from them and 
receive their advice and aid.  
6. The existence of a polar opening and land beyond the Poles is probably known to the U.S. Navy in 
whose employ Admiral Byrd made his two historic flights and which is probably a top international secret.  
UFO'S or FLYING SAUCERS in Ancient Times.... .  
Did Super Beings From Space Ever Visit Earth? Classical Writers Reported So.  
Each Age interprets unusual events in the language of its own experience, whether it be Ezekiel 
describing sky objects in the symbology of angels and precious jewels, or Monk Lawrence in A.D. 776 
marveling at flaming shields from heaven spitting fire at the Saxons besieging Sigiburg, or modern men 
speculating the Unidentified Flying Objects are of extra-terrestrial origin.  
Now that astronomers blazon the belief that life exists throughout the universe, speculation naturally 
exists that spacemen could have landed on Earth in ages past.  
Is there evidence?  
For more than 2,000 years it was recorded by nearly all the greatest intellects of Greece and Rome 
although most of the records of antiquity have been destroyed, in the surviving Classics there is ample 
evidence of UFO's and probable extra-terrestrial intervention.  
Our theologians dismiss the ancient Gods as anthropomorphisms of natural forces, as if entire races for 
hundreds of years would base their daily lives on lightning and thunderbolts. Yet logic suggests that the 
old Gods of Egypt, Greece, Rome, Scandinavia and Mexico were not disembodied Spirits or 
anthropomorphic symbolisms but actual spacemen from the skies. It seems that after the great 
catastrophes remembered in legends. the "Gods" withdrew and henceforth have been content merely to 
survey the Earth, except for an occasional intervention in human affairs.  
Apollodorus wrote, "Sky was the first who ruled over the whole world," surely signifying domination by 
space beings. The Roman Emperor Julian vowed, "We must believe that on this world... certain Gods 
alighted."  
Aeschylus, Euripides, Aristophanes, Plautus and Menander frequently introduced a "Deus ex Machine" (a 
God from a Machine) to untangle the plots of their plays.  
Aristotle, Plato, Pliny, Lucretius and most other philosophers believed that the Gods were supermen living 
in the realms above.  
A century ago a German grocer Heinrich Schliemann, using the Iliad as a guide, defied the ridicule of the 
professors and dug up Troy. Can we dig up records of spaceships in other classics?  
Following are some examples from the works of ancient writers, scrutinized for UFO references:  
B.C. 498 Visitations "... Castor and Pollux were seen fighting in our army on horseback... Nor do we 
forget that when the Locrians defeated the people of Crotona in a battle on the banks of the river Sagra, it 
was known the same day at the Olympian Games. The voices of the Fauns have been heard and deities 
have appeared in forms so visible that they have compelled everyone who is not senseless or hardened 
to impiety to confess the presence of the Gods." - Cicero, Of the nature of the Gods, Book I, Ch. 2  
B.C. 325: Visitations "There in the stillness of the night both consuls are said to have been visited by the 
same apparition, a man of greater than human stature, and more majestic, who declared that the 
commander of one side and the army of the other must be offered up to the Manes and to Mother Earth." - Livy, History, Book VIII, Ch. 11  
B.C. 223: Bright Light, Three Moons "At Ariminium a bright light like the day blazed out at night; in many 
portions of Italy three moons became visible in the night time." - Dio Cassius, Roman History, Book I  
B.C. 222: Three Moons "Also three moons have appeared at once, for instance, in the consulship of 
Gnaeus Domitius and Gaius Fannius." - Pliny, Natural History, Book II, Ch. 32  
B.C. 218: The Sky Is Filled "In Amiterno district in many places were seen the appearance of men in 
white garments from far away. The orb of the sun grew smaller. At Praeneste glowing lamps from heaven. 
At Arpi a shield in the sky. The moon contended with the sun and during the night two moons were seen. 
Phantom ships appeared in the sky." - Livy, History, Books XXI-XXII  
B.C. 217: Fissure in the Sky "At Faleri the sky had seemed to be rent as it were with a great fissure and 
through the opening a bright light had shone." - Livy, History, Book XXII, Ch. 1  
B.C. 214: Men and Altar "At Hadria an altar was seen in the sky and about it the forms of men in white 
clothes." - Julius Obsequens, Prodigiorum Libellus, Ch. 66  
B.C. 163 : An Extra Sun "In the consulship of Tiberius Gracchus and Manius Juventus at Capua the sun 
was seen by night. At Formice two suns were seen by day. The sky was afire. In Cephallenia a trumpet 
seemed to sound from the sky. There was a rain of earth. A windstorm demolished houses and laid crops 
flat in the field. By night an apparent sun shone at Pisaurum." - Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch 114  
B.C. 122: Three Suns, Three Moons "In Gaul three suns and three moons were seen." - Obsequens, 
Prodigiorum, Ch. 114  
B.C. 81: Gold Fireball "Near Spoletium a gold-colored fireball rolled down to the ground, increased in size; 
seemed to move off the ground toward the east and was big enough to blot out the sun." - Obsequens, 
Prodigiorum, Ch. 114  
B.C. 85: Burning Shield, Sparks "In the consulship of Lucius Valerius and Caius Marius a burning shield 
scattering sparks ran across the sky. " - Pliny, Natural History, Book II, Ch. 34  
B.C. 66: From Spark to Torch "In the consulship of Gnaeus Octavius and Gaius Suetonius a spark was 
seen to fall from a star and increase in size as it approached the earth. After becoming as large as the 
moon it diffused a sort of cloudy daylight and then returning to the sky changed into a torch. This is the 
only record of its occurrence. It was seen by the proconsul Silenus and his suite. " - Pliny, Natural History, 
Book II, Ch. 35  
B.C. 48: Thunderbolts, Visitations "Thunderbolts had fallen upon Pompey's camp. A fire had appeared in 
the air over Caesar's camp and had fallen upon Pompey's ... In Syria two young men announced the 
result of the battle (in Thessaly) and vanished." - Dio Cassius, Roman History, Book IV  
B.C. 42: Night Light, Three Suns "In Rome light shone so brightly at nightfall that people got up to begin 
work as though day had dawned. At Murtino three suns were seen about the third hour of the day, which 
presently drew together in a single orb." - Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch. 130  
B.C.?: Suns, Moons, Globes "How often has our Senate enjoined the decemvirs to consult the books of 
the Sibyl: For instance, when two suns had been seen or when three moons had appeared and when 
flames of fire were noticed in the sky; or on that other occasion when the sun was beheld in the night, 
when noises were heard in the sky, and the heaven itself seemed to burst open, and strange globes were 
remarked in it." - Cicero, On Divination, Book I, Ch. 43  
A.D. 70: Chariots in the Sky "On the 2lst of May a demonic phantom of incredible size... For before sunset 
there appeared in the air over the whole country chariots and armed troops coursing through the clouds 
and surrounding the cities." - Josephus, Jewish War, Book CXI  
A.D. 193: Three New Stars "Three stars ... suddenly came into view surrounding the sun, when Emperor 
Julianus in our presence was offering the Sacrifice of Entrance in front of the Senate House. These stars 
were so very distinct that the soldiers kept continually looking at them and pointing them out to another . . 
. " - Dio Cassius, Roman History, Book LXXIV  
A.D. 217: Visitation "In Rome, moreover, a `Spirit' having the appearance of a man led an ass up to the 
Capitol and afterwards to the palace seeking its master as he claimed and stating that Antoninus was 
dead and Jupiter was now Emperor. Upon being arrested for this and sent by Matermainus to Antoninus 
he said, `I go as you bid but I shall face not this emperor but another.' And when he reached Capua he 
vanished. " - Dio Cassius, Roman History  
The above references are only a sampling of the evidence available. Consider just four writers: Julius 
Obsequens recorded 63 celestial phenomena; Livy, 30; Pliny, 26; Dio Cassius, 14; Cicero, 9.  
Romans fervently believed that two strange horsemen, taller than normal men, alike in age, height and 
beauty, saved the day for Posthumus at Lake Regillus and, that same day, miraculously appeared in the 
Forum, announced the victory, and departed forever.  
A contemporary historian described two shiny shields spitting fire around the rims, diving repeatedly at 
the columns of Alexander the Great in India, stamping horses and elephants, and then returning to the 
sky.  
When we recall that Romulus was borne to heaven by a whirlwind while giving judgment on the Palatine 
Hill, that his successor Numa Pomilius, used magic weapons, that Livy, Pliny the Elder, and Julius 
Obsequens tell of mysterious voices, celestial trumpets, men in white garments hovering in airships, 
several suns and moons together, sudden new stars, and superhuman apparitions descending among 
men and then vanishing, we suddenly feel we are reading the wonders of the Bible.  
By some strange twist of the human mind, we worship prodigies in old Palestine as manifestations of the 
Lord, yet scoff at identical phenomena occurring at the same time only a few hundred miles away.  
Evidence exists; all we need to do is examine it.  
Conclusion  
From the evidence contained in this book, confirmed by many Arctic explorers whom we cite, we come to 
the following conclusions:  
1. There is really no North or South Pole. Where they are supposed to exist there are really wide 
openings to the hollow interior of the Earth.  
2. Flying saucers come from the hollow interior of the Earth through these polar openings.  
3. The hollow interior of the earth, warmed by its central sun (the source of Aurora Borealis) has 
an ideal subtropical climate of about 76 degrees in temperature, neither too hot nor too cold.  
4. Arctic explorers found the temperature to rise as they traveled far north; they found more open 
seas; they found animals traveling north in winter, seeking food and warmth, when they should 
have gone south; they found the compass needle to assume a vertical position instead of a 
horizontal one and to become extremely eccentric; they saw tropical birds and more animal life 
the further north they went; they saw butterflies, mosquitoes and other insects in the extreme 
north, when they were not found until one is as far south as Alaska and Canada; they found the 
snow discolored by colored pollen and black dust, which became worse the further north they 
went. The only explanation is that this dust came from active volcanoes in the polar opening.  
5. There is a large population inhabiting the inner concave surface of the Earth's crust, 
composing a civilization far in advance of our own in its scientific achievements, which probably 
descended from the sunken continents of Lemuria and Atlantis. Flying saucers are only one of 
their many achievements. It would be to our advantage to contact these Elder Brothers of the 
human race, learn from them and receive their advice and aid.  
6. The existence of a polar opening and land beyond the Poles is probably known to the U.S. 
Navy in whose employ Admiral Byrd made his two historic flights and which is probably a top 
international secret.  
UFO'S or FLYING SAUCERS in Ancient Times.... .  
Did Super Beings From Space Ever Visit Earth? Classical Writers Reported So.  
Each Age interprets unusual events in the language of its own experience, whether it be Ezekiel 
describing sky objects in the symbology of angels and precious jewels, or Monk Lawrence in A.D. 776 
marveling at flaming shields from heaven spitting fire at the Saxons besieging Sigiburg, or modern men 
speculating the Unidentified Flying Objects are of extra-terrestrial origin.  
Now that astronomers blazon the belief that life exists throughout the universe, speculation naturally 
exists that spacemen could have landed on Earth in ages past.  
Is there evidence?  
For more than 2,000 years it was recorded by nearly all the greatest intellects of Greece and Rome 
although most of the records of antiquity have been destroyed, in the surviving Classics there is ample 
evidence of UFO's and probable extra-terrestrial intervention.  
Our theologians dismiss the ancient Gods as anthropomorphisms of natural forces, as if entire races for 
hundreds of years would base their daily lives on lightning and thunderbolts. Yet logic suggests that the 
old Gods of Egypt, Greece, Rome, Scandinavia and Mexico were not disembodied Spirits or 
anthropomorphic symbolisms but actual spacemen from the skies. It seems that after the great 
catastrophes remembered in legends. the "Gods" withdrew and henceforth have been content merely to 
survey the Earth, except for an occasional intervention in human affairs.  
Apollodorus wrote, "Sky was the first who ruled over the whole world," surely signifying domination by 
space beings. The Roman Emperor Julian vowed, "We must believe that on this world... certain Gods 
alighted."  
Aeschylus, Euripides, Aristophanes, Plautus and Menander frequently introduced a "Deus ex Machine" (a 
God from a Machine) to untangle the plots of their plays.  
Aristotle, Plato, Pliny, Lucretius and most other philosophers believed that the Gods were supermen living 
in the realms above.  
A century ago a German grocer Heinrich Schliemann, using the Iliad as a guide, defied the ridicule of the 
professors and dug up Troy. Can we dig up records of spaceships in other classics?  
Following are some examples from the works of ancient writers, scrutinized for UFO references:  
B.C. 498 Visitations "... Castor and Pollux were seen fighting in our army on horseback... Nor do 
we forget that when the Locrians defeated the people of Crotona in a battle on the banks of the 
river Sagra, it was known the same day at the Olympian Games. The voices of the Fauns have 
been heard and deities have appeared in forms so visible that they have compelled everyone 
who is not senseless or hardened to impiety to confess the presence of the Gods." - Cicero, Of 
the nature of the Gods, Book I, Ch. 2  
B.C. 325: Visitations "There in the stillness of the night both consuls are said to have been visited 
by the same apparition, a man of greater than human stature, and more majestic, who declared 
that the commander of one side and the army of the other must be offered up to the Manes and 
to Mother Earth." - Livy, History, Book VIII, Ch. 11  
B.C. 223: Bright Light, Three Moons "At Ariminium a bright light like the day blazed out at night; in 
many portions of Italy three moons became visible in the night time." - Dio Cassius, Roman 
History, Book I  
B.C. 222: Three Moons "Also three moons have appeared at once, for instance, in the consulship 
of Gnaeus Domitius and Gaius Fannius." - Pliny, Natural History, Book II, Ch. 32  
B.C. 218: The Sky Is Filled "In Amiterno district in many places were seen the appearance of 
men in white garments from far away. The orb of the sun grew smaller. At Praeneste glowing 
lamps from heaven. At Arpi a shield in the sky. The moon contended with the sun and during the 
night two moons were seen. Phantom ships appeared in the sky." - Livy, History, Books XXI-XXII  
B.C. 217: Fissure in the Sky "At Faleri the sky had seemed to be rent as it were with a great 
fissure and through the opening a bright light had shone." - Livy, History, Book XXII, Ch. 1  
B.C. 214: Men and Altar "At Hadria an altar was seen in the sky and about it the forms of men in 
white clothes." - Julius Obsequens, Prodigiorum Libellus, Ch. 66  
B.C. 163 : An Extra Sun "In the consulship of Tiberius Gracchus and Manius Juventus at Capua 
the sun was seen by night. At Formice two suns were seen by day. The sky was afire. In 
Cephallenia a trumpet seemed to sound from the sky. There was a rain of earth. A windstorm 
demolished houses and laid crops flat in the field. By night an apparent sun shone at Pisaurum." - 
Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch 114  
B.C. 122: Three Suns, Three Moons "In Gaul three suns and three moons were seen." - 
Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch. 114  
B.C. 81: Gold Fireball "Near Spoletium a gold-colored fireball rolled down to the ground, 
increased in size; seemed to move off the ground toward the east and was big enough to blot out 
the sun." - Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch. 114  
B.C. 85: Burning Shield, Sparks "In the consulship of Lucius Valerius and Caius Marius a burning 
shield scattering sparks ran across the sky. " - Pliny, Natural History, Book II, Ch. 34  
B.C. 66: From Spark to Torch "In the consulship of Gnaeus Octavius and Gaius Suetonius a 
spark was seen to fall from a star and increase in size as it approached the earth. After becoming 
as large as the moon it diffused a sort of cloudy daylight and then returning to the sky changed 
into a torch. This is the only record of its occurrence. It was seen by the proconsul Silenus and his 
suite. " - Pliny, Natural History, Book II, Ch. 35  
B.C. 48: Thunderbolts, Visitations "Thunderbolts had fallen upon Pompey's camp. A fire had 
appeared in the air over Caesar's camp and had fallen upon Pompey's ... In Syria two young men 
announced the result of the battle (in Thessaly) and vanished." - Dio Cassius, Roman History, 
Book IV  
B.C. 42: Night Light, Three Suns "In Rome light shone so brightly at nightfall that people got up to 
begin work as though day had dawned. At Murtino three suns were seen about the third hour of 
the day, which presently drew together in a single orb." - Obsequens, Prodigiorum, Ch. 130  
B.C.?: Suns, Moons, Globes "How often has our Senate enjoined the decemvirs to consult the 
books of the Sibyl: For instance, when two suns had been seen or when three moons had 
appeared and when flames of fire were noticed in the sky; or on that other occasion when the sun 
was beheld in the night, when noises were heard in the sky, and the heaven itself seemed to 
burst open, and strange globes were remarked in it." - Cicero, On Divination, Book I, Ch. 43  
A.D. 70: Chariots in the Sky "On the 2lst of May a demonic phantom of incredible size... For 
before sunset there appeared in the air over the whole country chariots and armed troops 
coursing through the clouds and surrounding the cities." - Josephus, Jewish War, Book CXI  
A.D. 193: Three New Stars "Three stars ... suddenly came into view surrounding the sun, when 
Emperor Julianus in our presence was offering the Sacrifice of Entrance in front of the Senate 
House. These stars were so very distinct that the soldiers kept continually looking at them and 
pointing them out to another . . . " - Dio Cassius, Roman History, Book LXXIV  
A.D. 217: Visitation "In Rome, moreover, a `Spirit' having the appearance of a man led an ass up 
to the Capitol and afterwards to the palace seeking its master as he claimed and stating that 
Antoninus was dead and Jupiter was now Emperor. Upon being arrested for this and sent by 
Matermainus to Antoninus he said, `I go as you bid but I shall face not this emperor but another.' 
And when he reached Capua he vanished. " - Dio Cassius, Roman History  
The above references are only a sampling of the evidence available. Consider just four writers: Julius 
Obsequens recorded 63 celestial phenomena; Livy, 30; Pliny, 26; Dio Cassius, 14; Cicero, 9.  
Romans fervently believed that two strange horsemen, taller than normal men, alike in age, height and 
beauty, saved the day for Posthumus at Lake Regillus and, that same day, miraculously appeared in the 
Forum, announced the victory, and departed forever.  
A contemporary historian described two shiny shields spitting fire around the rims, diving repeatedly at 
the columns of Alexander the Great in India, stamping horses and elephants, and then returning to the 
sky.  
When we recall that Romulus was borne to heaven by a whirlwind while giving judgment on the Palatine 
Hill, that his successor Numa Pomilius, used magic weapons, that Livy, Pliny the Elder, and Julius 
Obsequens tell of mysterious voices, celestial trumpets, men in white garments hovering in airships, 
several suns and moons together, sudden new stars, and superhuman apparitions descending among 
men and then vanishing, we suddenly feel we are reading the wonders of the Bible.  
By some strange twist of the human mind, we worship prodigies in old Palestine as manifestations of the 
Lord, yet scoff at identical phenomena occurring at the same time only a few hundred miles away.  
Evidence exists; all we need to do is examine it.  
Flying Saucers, Propulsion and Relativity  
Solve the UFO propulsion problem and you open the whole universe to man: Here's a theory that may 
explain it.  
For the past few years we have been visited by large numbers of foreign space craft. Actually these visits 
probably have been occurring for a long time; perhaps for what we call geological time periods. However, 
in 1947 or shortly before, the number of visits rose sharply. Since 1947 a great number of persons around 
the world have seen the famous flying saucers, or unidentified flying objects (UFO's).  
Over the past few years, observers have watched the craft perform acrobatic maneuvers of an 
astonishing nature. Apparently most of the saucers do not depend on any propulsion familiar to our 
science or, at least, familiar to us until recently. Only a very few have been reported with propellers, and 
while some have reaction motors, either jets or pure rockets, many do not even have these. Indeed, the 
typical flying saucer floats above the earth with no visible means of support and then dashes off at a truly 
breathtaking speed to some other part of the globe.  
The lack of any known propulsion system capable of such effects has led many persons to speculate that 
the owners of the saucers have been able to master the physics of gravitation. The propulsion system 
used must in some way apply what is popularly called anti-gravity. There is hardly any way, at least so far 
as both laymen and experts can see, how their ability to stay above the earth with neither jets, propellers 
or extensive lifting services can be explained. But a further, though closely related, enigma is the typical 
saucer motion. For not only has gravity been conquered, but inertia seems to have been conquered also.  
Many reports - some of them apparently authentic - tell of UFOs suddenly appearing in the sky from 
nowhere and then disappearing, seemingly in an instant. Unless some optical trick is involved, the 
saucers must be capable of truly extraordinary acceleration. Typical of saucer reports, as they appear in 
the local presses throughout the world, is the object seen cruising along at a few hundred miles per hour 
and then, suddenly, seen to dash away at what must be thousands of miles per hour.  
In addition to these extraordinary linear accelerations the saucers seem to outwit inertia in other respects. 
At very high speeds they appear to make perfect right right angle turns and even reversals of direction, 
without disastrous results to their structure or their crew - if these exist. At least two of my friends have 
told me of seeing flying saucers, moving through the sky at very high speeds, make instantaneous right 
angle turns.  
Still another good trick they seem able to move through the atmosphere at rates of speed and at levels of 
air density which clearly are incompatible with any publicly known technology. As an object moves 
through the air the friction of the molecules striking its surface causes the material to heat. In our very fast 
jet interceptors cooling systems are necessary. We all know how meteors entering the earth's 
atmosphere, and nose cones of missiles re-entering the earth's atmosphere, heat to such a point that in 
many cases they disintegrate or burn up completely. Yet moving at comparable speeds in a denser 
atmosphere and do not seem to show these effects. To be sure, luminosity often appears about them - 
especially at night - and occasionally trails of smoke vapor appear, but the machine itself seems to 
survive. To missilemen this is most curious.  
At stake, in all these maneuvers, is our understanding of the stubborn laws of inertia which govern our 
world. Newton first formulated these clearly in his double principle that an object at rest tends to remain at 
rest unless a force is applied, and if a force is applied it tends to take motion in the direction of the applied 
force and proportionally to it. These Newtonian laws of inertia still are the basis of much of our scientific 
world view. But combining them with the known molecular binding forces of matter, which are equally 
fixed in the order of nature - at least so we think - makes the saucer's behavior very difficult to explain.  
When the flying saucers accelerate from 0 speed to many thousands of miles an hour in a few seconds, 
why isn't their internal machinery torn apart and any crew members squashed?  
Anyone who has taken a curve at too high a speed knows the persistent tendency of his vehicle to 
continue along the original line of motion against the force of his tires and steering mechanism.  
Similarly when a flying saucer makes a sudden turn, traveling many thousand miles an hour, why don't 
the molecules or crystals of its metallic structure literally tear apart - from the great strain imposed by the 
laws of inertia?  
And finally, as the saucers rush through the atmosphere why don't the molecules of the atmosphere, 
striking against the saucer cause heat through friction and eventually burn the object up?  
It is these very remarkable performances that have led many persons to believe the saucers are not real. 
Material objects cannot behave this way: The saucers must be moving light, optical illusion, mirage, 
defraction pattern, atmospheric lense or, to PFO's (Persons Farthest Out), ghosts or spirits.  
The head of Air Force Intelligence remarked rather wistfully after the great Washington Airport sightings 
some years ago that he (i.e. the Air Force) did not have anything with infinite energy and no mass. Any 
person trained in non-relativistic physics believes it would be impossible for ponderable mass to behave 
as the UFO's behave.  
However, the trouble with this argument seems very real, indeed. For saucers do exist: They have been 
photographed: They return firm radar images: And at close range they look very much like craft made of 
metal or transparent materials similar to plexiglass. Aside from their unusual tricks they seem to have all 
the characteristics of hard material objects which are designed, fabricated, manufactured, or what you 
will.  
If the saucers are real solid vehicles we must revise our ideas of nature in one of two respects. Either we 
must conclude that our knowledge of the rules which hold atoms and molecules together is incomplete, or 
we must revolutionize our concept of inertia. If both alternatives were beyond the reach of modern 
science there would be no reason to prefer one over the other.  
But, in fact, there is a perfectly good way of explaining the saucers within modern physical theory. To do 
so, however, we must pass to the abstract heights of physics, in particular to Albert Einstein's General 
Theory of Relativity. Now, before you are too frightened, let it be said that the General Theory is not as 
complex and intricate as some persons think. Its reputation for difficulty arises from the fact that, to grasp 
it, a transvaluation in the way we feel about the world is necessary.  
Newton's concept of inertia tells us that an object stays in its place unless some force is applied to it and 
when the force is applied the object moves with the force. Newton had rather mixed ideas of why inertia 
exists. At one point in his Principia it is almost inherent in matter. At another point inertial or centrifugal 
forces arise from something called absolute space. The persistence of matter in its state, according to 
Newton, comes from its relation to an absolute world of space more final than any material system we can 
think of.  
This notion of Newton's was never satisfactory and in the last part of the l9th Century the Austrian 
physicist and philosopher Ernst Mach turned his critical mind to it. Mach, whom we all know for his Mach 
numbers of aerodynamics, was also a forerunner of the Vienna Circle which developed logical positivism. 
To him anything beyond observation - such as absolute space - was unreal. Hence he proposed that 
inertia was a reference to all the matter in the universe. By all the matter in the universe he meant all the 
fixed stars, or in our day, when we realize that the cosmos is made up of vast numbers of stars collected 
in vast numbers of galaxies, to all the galaxies. For Mach an object subject to the laws of inertia was 
relative to all the stars, or as we would say today, all the nebulae.  
Yet Mach's principle, as Einstein called it, had a difficulty. It did not supply any physical link between the 
stars and an inertial system. Mach just substituted the universe for Newton's absolute pace as a system 
of coordinates in which objects existed and moved. He did not take us any further down the road to 
showing what inertia is, or why it works the way it does.  
Perhaps we should say, rather, that he took us a little way and he took Albert Einstein a very long way.  
In 1916 Einstein proposed his General Theory of Relativity. In effect it was a theory of universal 
gravitation and inertia. Einstein reduced the two forces to the same thing and expressed this in his 
famous Principle of Equivalence: gravitational and inertial forces are indistinguishable and equal. His 
illustration of this is a man in an elevator deep in space. The man is away from any large objects. If the 
elevator is moving uniformly at any constant speed, from a very small one to a very large one, the man 
will seem quite weightless. He will sense no motion nor any gravity. However, if the elevator speeds up, if 
it is pulled by its cosmic cable along the direction of the man's height at an increasing speed, the man will 
begin to feel as if gravity is acting upon him. When a certain acceleration is reached, equivalent in earth's 
measurements to 32 feet per second, the man will imagine that he is back on the earth and is being 
pulled down by the earth's gravity just the way he was before he left earth.  
Actually, of course, he is not. His false impression is merely the result of inertia and the acceleration of his 
elevator. There is no gravitation or, more correctly we should say, there is no large object in his vicinity.  
Thus Einstein illustrated the fact that inertia and gravity have exactly the same effects on the observer 
and cannot be distinguished on the basis of local observations. He went further. He sought to explain 
gravity and inertia in the same physical terms. While the weight of objects on a large celestial body like 
the earth is caused by the latter's gravitational attraction, the inertial behavior of objects is explained by 
the gravitational attraction of all matter everywhere.  
To use a simple analogy, the pipe resting on the table in front of me remains where it is largely because 
all the stars and nebulae of the cosmos are pulling on it, and they are pulling on it in all conceivable 
directions. It is as if a million million million little wires were attached to the pipe symmetrically all around it 
and are pulling it equally at the same time in every direction. Similarly, as I throw my pencil across the 
room it goes in a straight line (aside from earth's gravity) because it it being pulled at every right angle to 
the direction of its flight by the totality of matter in the universe, by all the stars or nebulae.  
Thus inertia in the familiar world is really gravitation but not the gravitation of the earth or of any single big 
body near us, but the gravitation of every particle in the universe; it is the sum effect of gigantic push, pull, 
or field depending on how you regard the still elusive gravitational mechanism.  
But how, you ask, does this help us explain how flying saucers fly? If the owners of the saucers have 
been able to devise a revolutionary means of anti-gravity, say an electro-magnetic screen which they put 
around their craft, this will mean that as the earth's gravity is overcome the gravity-inertia of all the rest of 
the universe will be overcome also. If the gravitons or ultra particles or fields which account for the 
gravitation of the earth are screened out the gravitational effect of the rest of the universe will be 
screened out also. Thus the saucers, with their anti-gravity screen, will be able to fly above the earth and 
they will be able to ignore the laws of inertia. They will be literally floating in a little cup or envelope where 
neither gravity nor inertia play any role. If the creatures who have built and man the saucers have 
mastered gravity they must, according to Einstein, have overcome inertia, also.  
The key to the rather strange thing I have just said is to think how an atom or a molecule, or a group of 
them which make up an object will behave if no inertial influence can reach them. The pipe on my desk, 
now at the slightest touch of my finger, may fly across the room. Similarly, if I now throw my pencil across 
the room the slightest breeze will send it off at a right angle toward the other side of the room. In other 
words, we may assume that the atoms and matter in an inertia-free area will become almost totally free in 
their environment. They can move in one direction as easily as in another. They have no tendency to 
remain in the rigid envised position which inertia would ordinarily hold; they can fly away freely in any 
direction in which a slight force impels them.  
I think this explains how the saucers can accelerate from zero to thousands of miles an hour and 
decelerate at the same rate, how they can engage in the dramatic maneuvers reported. Once a force, of 
whatever kind, impels them in a direction different from their line of movement, there is no tendency for 
their atoms and molecules to continue moving in their former direction, Thus, there is no strain upon the 
structure of the ship and the molecular binding forces of its material are not torn apart. Again, its 
occupants, if they can live in such an inertialess world, are not crushed in the slightest or even disturbed 
by the gyrations of the superstructure around them. Presumably they could sit quietly reading a book 
without knowing that their craft actually was doing the most remarkable acrobatics.  
The concept of a gravity-inertia screen may also explain why the saucers do not burn up as they speed 
through the atmosphere. Consider a molecule or atom of gas as bumping along against other atoms in 
the atmosphere, subject to the laws of inertia as everything else is, but not causing very much damage or 
disturbance because it has little mass; a saucer rushes by and the molecule finds itself within the gravity
inertia screen. Suddenly this little air molecule is entirely free: It no longer carries kinetic punch; it can 
bump into anything without causing the slightest friction. In other words, it enters the screen like a bullet 
and strikes the saucer like a feather.  
However, as the saucer rushes on, this molecule of air pops out the back of the screen in a very agitated 
state. It is now again in the inertial world and starts bumping into other highly agitated molecules. Its tiny 
little punch is magnified as a result of the friction which was not possible and this causes a release of 
energy - the luminosity seen about the saucers, especially at night.  
At this point perhaps we should review what we have said and what we have not said.  
In a sense, we have explained how the saucers fly but we have not explained how the gravity-inertia 
screen is generated. Sometimes when flying saucers are observed during the day through polaroid 
glasses, and some photographs of saucers, exhibit a kind of halo or corona about them. Of course, this 
well may be a physical token of the screen. However, the way it is produced is still a mystery, at least to 
this writer.  
It is almost certain that in some way the field involves electricity and magnetism - for the effects of both 
have been noticed in connection with saucers. It is also likely that nuclear energy is used in the 
generation process, because increase in radioactivity background levels also accompany UFO flights. But 
of the exact mechanisms which produce the screen we know nothing. Research in this area is highly 
classified. The earth power which first develops the technique will have an immense military advantage. It 
may render not only aircraft, but ballistic missiles obsolete.  
Let us consider what man's mastery of gravity and inertia may mean for his life on earth and his progress 
in space - if other races allow him to make any. In the first place, down here on earth the control of both 
gravity and inertia may well transform much of our economic system. We can think immediately of gravity
free airplanes plus the advantages of being able to control the inertia which governs (and hampers) so 
much of our lives.  
If inertia can be controlled a five-year-old child can bounce an elephant upon its knee; the work of the 
world may be done with tiny amounts of energy - depending, of course on how much is needed to 
produce the gravity-inertia screen. We may be able to move mountains with only the quantity of electricity 
to light a house. The whole phenomena of friction may be within our range of manipulation; railroad trains 
may be able to rush down their tracks covered with an inertial screen driven by only fractional horse
power motors.  
The idea of inertia-free flight opens up interesting possibilities for space travel. Given inertia-free flight, 
space may no longer be a barrier to solar-system travel.  
Some astronomers and physicists, pointing to the enormous amounts of energy required to accelerate 
even a tiny payload near enough to the speed of light to make the journey to the nearest star in any 
reasonable period of time, have held the view that the only communication mankind will ever have with 
intelligent life elsewhere in the galaxy is by radio.  
The distances between stars are measured in light years and only a limited number of stars are within 
one-half the light year equivalent of four score and 10. Thus the necessity for approaching the optical 
velocity in interstellar travel becomes obvious. Yet, even to approach it under the old law of inertia is a 
difficult matter; some scientists believe it is impossible.  
Dr. Frank Drake illustrates the problem by calculating that to deliver the Encyclopedia Brittanica to our 
nearest stellar neighbor would require such a huge rocket that its blast-off would incinerate the entire 
state of Florida.  
Other scientists, of course, have believed that inter-stellar travel is possible, even under the limitations of 
an inertial world. The great German physicist, Professor Singer, once proposed an inter-stellar vehicle 
capable of sweeping up the hydrogen atoms in space in a gigantic net and converting them into fuel along 
the way.  
But if we are able to develop a gravity-inertia screen we may be able to approach the optical velocity with 
very little energy actually required.  
It also may mean that higher species, who long ago discovered the same technique, have voyaged back 
and forth between the stars quite regularly. This would, in turn increase the likelihood that our solar 
system is visited by races from other stars.  
Comprehensive list of Dr. Bernard's complete works  
The following is a descriptive list of Dr. Bernard's complete works -- giving a good overview of his many
sided interests.  
Dr. Raymond Bernard was born Walter Seigmeister in 1901 to a family of Russian non-practising Jews in 
New York City. His father was a doctor which gave him an early interest in health. As a young man he 
became deeply interested in the works of the Theosophists and Rudolph Steiner's Anthropo- sophists, 
especially those works relating to Atlantis and Lemuria.  
His B.A. was from Columbia University in 1924, and his M.A. and Ph.D were in education -- from New 
York University (in 1930 and 1932 respectively). His Ph.D. dissertation was, "Theory and Practice of Dr. 
Rudolf Steiner's Pedagogy."  
His final and most popular book was the "The Hollow Earth." He died of pneumonia on September 10, 
1965, while searching the tunnel openings to the interior of the Earth, in South America. He was an 
individual who was not afraid to explore well beyond the confines of the `establishment's convention', and 
the spirit of his controversial research lives on....  
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF DR. RAYMOND BERNARD (B.A., M.A., Ph.D.):  
THE REVOLT AGAINST CHEMICALS- Dr. R.W. Bernard & Morris A. Bealle, Editor of Capsule News. 
Mimeographed on heavy white paper and one of the hottest things ever printed. NEW, enlarged 1957 
edition - 85 pages.  
"Official Washington drinks pure water but forces the people of the Capital City to drink aqua 
impura, doctored with a RAT POISON called SODIUM FLUORIDE. President Eisenhower and 
members of the Senate drink PURE SPRING WATER, brought from the hills of Arkansas by the 
Mountain Valley Water Company.  
"The Republican Club gets its water from the Berkeley Springs Water Company, it being brought 
to Washington from West Virginia. Big shot politicians have NO INTENTION of absorbing this 
cumulative paralyzing poison, even though they DO NOTHING TO KEEP THE PEOPLE FROM 
BEING FORCED TO DRINK IT!  
"The Allpure Water Company has doubled its Washington business since the city's water supply 
was adulterated a few years ago by a sluggish- minded trio of city commissioners."  
"The Justice Dept. also drinks bottled spring water. This Dept. is charged by law with enforcing 
laws, such as the law against placing poison in public water supplies(!). Instead of enforcing it, 
they get good water for their officials to drink..." --Capsule News.  
The poisoning of food for profit by Big Business continues at an alarming rate - The Food & Drug 
Administration looks the other way while 500 chemicals are added to the food you buy in the markets. 
This of course, is not published in the public mediums as it would hurt `advertising revenues.' We give 
you information on many of the drugs, chemicals and poisons you eat daily in your food and the harmful 
effects to your health.  
The Growing Opposition to Chemical Additives in Food and Water: The Fluoridation of City Water, the 
Chemicalization of Bread and the Pasteurization of Milk is fully covered in this giant folio by Dr. Raymond 
Bernard, B.A., M. A., Ph. D.  
Do you know that WHITE SUGAR is the most injurious product of our national diet; that 
OLEOMARGARINE is an inferior product (closest thing to PLASTIC you can ingest); that PASTEURIZED 
OR HOMOGENIZED MILK means devitalized milk (50% of the vitamin C and 25% of the vitamin B is 
destroyed- 6% less available calcium); Tobacco contains not less than 19 poisons and that ASPIRIN is a 
DOPE?  
Do you realize that over 500 different poisons are being placed into foods that you eat? These can and do 
have an accumulative effect on your body.  
Morris Bealle of the American Capsule News gives you information on these poisons such as: Potassium 
Sulfate, Propylene Glycol, Calcium Stearate, Tannic Acid, Glucanol, Hexanol, Hydroquinon, Isoamyl 
Isovalerate, Juniper Berries, Lavender Flowers, Methyl Anthranilate, etc., and these are only a few of the 
drugs covered in this amazing folio.  
SUPER-HEALTH THRU ORGANIC SUPER-FOOD By Dr. R. W. BERNARD- Latest 1958 Information.  
This author covers such subjects as Sprays, Chemicals in Drinking Water, Organic Foods, Lecithin, Low 
Protein Diet Etc. Learn the Newest Discovery in Nutrition. This volume is the sequel of the famous book, 
HOW TO EAT SAFELY IN A POISONED WORLD, published by the author's friend and colleague, Anton 
H. Jensen. This volume is famous throughout the world.  
Since he wrote the book above, Dr. Bernard has written a number of other works on food poisoning by 
sprays and the importance of organic foods.  
CONTENTS  
The Experiments of Dr. Robert McCarrison; Synthetic vitamins differ from natural vitamins of 
organic foods; Dr. McCarrison found that it was not only the type of foods consumed but the 
manner in which the soil was cultivated that gave health to the Hunzas; More and more deadly 
sprays to Poison you faster; the DDT spray menace; Dr. Martin's Studies on widespread DDT 
poisoning; M. D. fears DDT is poisoning the nation, finds traces in 23 of 25 humans; warns of liver 
damage; More insecticides each year; Dr. Biskind's findings on danger of poisoning by residues 
of DDT, Chlordane and other chlorinated hydrocarbons in sprayed foods; Chlordane the new 
super-killer; 704 different chemicals in our foods; Dr. Hobb's studies on spray poisoning; 
Convulsions due to sprays in foods; Additional evidence concerning the daily, ever-present 
menace of insecticide residues in foods; Poison on Tap; The Chemical and Metallic 
Contamination of Drinking Water; The Menace of Chlorination; Metallic Poisoning From Water 
Pipes; Chronic Poisoning From Metallic Tooth Fillings; Aluminum Contamination of City Water; Is 
Aluminum Poisoning Responsible for the Modern Increase of Nervous and Mental Diseases?; 
Aluminized City Water; Pasteurized Milk and Insecticide Residues in Foods as Causes of Polio; 
Some sickness mistaken for polio may have been caused by eating fruits or vegetables bearing 
parathion residue; Newer phosphate insecticides as far more virulent than anything ever used 
before in agricultural pest control; The origin of cancer; The menace of fluoridation; Dishes to hold 
water - glass vs. metal; Is springwater safe to drink? Does it have calcareous deposits?; Metallic 
Contamination of Foods and Beverages by Grinding and juicing machines, eating utensils, etc.; 
Chinese bake cakes of lentils and almonds; The Chinese make flours from rice, peanuts, sweet 
potatoes, peas, coconuts, millet, bananas - everything BUT WHEAT: Why wheat is an inferior 
grain, which is uric-acid forming and decalcifying; Coconut Water; The Supreme Distilled Water; 
The chemical contamination of bread; chemical poisoning of grain crops on the farm; Fumigation 
of grain after harvesting; Machine milling and refining of grain; Enrichment with synthetic vitamins; 
Bleaching chemicals - producers of insanity; Chemical preservatives; Chemical dough 
conditioners; Artificial colorings and flavorings; Chemical yeast food; Salt, a Physiological Poison; 
How to make your own alkaline, unleavened undegerminated corn and millet health bread; 
Natural vs. Synthetic vitamins; How Crystalline and Synthetic Vitamins are made; Vitamin 
Toxicity; Trace Minerals and sea vegetation; Trace mineral deficiency and disease; Seeds as a 
source of nutrition; Why vitamin F has been neglected by nutritionists; Physiological Function of 
lecithin; Nutritional value of sesame seeds; Dairy Products Substitutes made from sesame seeds; 
Sunflower, the miracle food; Organic Foods for Better Health; etc., etc.  
APOLLONIUS THE NAZARENE (MYSTERY MAN OF THE BIBLE)  
A Startling Historical Discovery Based on Ancient Records Rescued from the Alexandrian Library Prior to 
Its Having Been Set on Fire by the Roman Churchmen, Concerning the Unknown World Teacher of the 
First Century, Leader and Teacher of the Essenes, Who First Introduced Among them the Gospel of 
Chrishna, Hindu Savior of 3000 B.C., which he Translated from the Sanskrit into the Aramaic as the 
Original Gospel (Diegesis) which, three centuries later, was elaborated into the four Christian Gospels by 
Roman Churchmen at the Council of Nicea, held in the year 325 A. D.  
By Dr. R W. Bernard (B.A., M. A., Ph. D. )  
THE GREATEST FRAUD IN HISTORY  
A Startling Revelation of What Really Occurred at the Council of Nicea, Called by the Degenerate Roman 
Emperor and Homicidal Maniac, Constantine, When Apollonius of Tyana, the True Founder of Essenian 
Early Christianity, was replaced by a Fictitious Figure Put in His Place, More Pleasing to Constantine, 
Whereupon He Made the Doctrines of the Persecuted Essenes the Imperial Religion of Rome and Turned 
his Legions from Putting to Death the Early Christians to Massacring All who Refused to Accept 
Christianity in its New Romanized Form.  
This manuscript also contains the Life and Private Correspondence of Apollonius of Tyana, The Teacher 
of Righteousness of the First Century Essenes and the Unknown Founder of Essenian Early Christianity.  
AGHARTA - The Subterranean World - By Dr. Raymond Bernard Highly Illustrated Showing Flying 
Saucers Over San Francisco; California.  
The author says that Admiral Byrd, on his return from the South Pole, said: "The present expedition has 
opened up a vast new land." He reported, in 1957, before his death - this land as: "That enchanted 
continent in the sky, land of everlasting mystery"' Today in 1963, nowhere is that mysterious land 
mentioned Why? Did Byrd actually fly beyond the pole into the center of the earth? He and his crew flew 
1,700 miles across the traversed direction of the North Polar Region! Dr. Bernard theorizes. Why does 
the U.S. government frown on the subject of flying saucers? They admit they exist (see actual photograph 
of "Operations and Training - UFO's Serious Business bulletin in the book, Flying Saucers Top Secret by 
Major Donald E. Keyhoe, U. S. Marine Corps, Retired, Director of the National Investigations Committee 
on Aerial Phenomena.  
Many are of the opinion that various governments and air forces do not want certain information given 
publicity. One `authority' says: "The various governments have all of the information that we have, but in 
order to avoid panic by the lunatic fringe and perhaps for many other vital reasons of security, they wish 
this information to be kept among those who are not mentally affected by it."  
DOES SHANGRI-LA EXIST? The Russian explorer, Ferdinand Ossendowski, author of "Beasts, Men and 
Gods" claims that tunnels which encircle the earth and which pass under the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, 
were built by men of the preglacial Hyperborean civilization which flourished in the polar region at a time 
when its climate was still tropical - a race of supermen possessing scientific powers of a superior order, 
including tunnel-boring machines we know nothing about. Ossendowski says:  
"Among all races of mankind, back to the dawn of time, there existed a tradition concerning the existence 
of a Sacred Land or Terrestrial Paradise, where the highest ideals of humanity were living realities. This 
concept is found in the most ancient writings and traditions of the peoples of Europe, Asia Minor, China, 
India., Egypt and the Americas. This Sacred Land, it is said, can be known only to persons who are 
worthy, pure and innocent, for which reason it constitutes the central theme for the dreams of childhood. "  
To understand the true nature of the flying saucers and their origin, it is necessary to know something 
about the history of Atlantis, since it is the opinion of Huguenin that flying saucers are nothing other than 
Atlantean aircraft which, before the occurrence of the catastrophe that destroyed Atlantis, were brought to 
the Subterranean World in the hollow interior of the earth. After they left the outer atmosphere they flew in 
the inner atmosphere, the chief mode of travel in this inner concave world where the shortest distance 
between two points on its surface is a straight air line best traversed by means of flying saucers.  
Aerial navigation existed long before the making of the first airplane by the Wright brothers, the director of 
the International Academy of Sanskrit Investigation at Mysa, India discovered an ancient treatise on 
aeronautics, which was written three thousand years ago. This treatise gives (in eight chapters) diagrams, 
describing three types of aircraft, including apparatuses that could neither catch on fire nor break, and 
mentions thirty-one essential parts of these vehicles and sixteen materials from which they are 
constructed, which absorb light and heat.  
The author claims he has proved that there are flying saucers (of which thousands of photographs have 
been taken and thousands of eye-witnesses exist) and that they come from inside our own earth beyond 
the Pole.  
FROM CHRISHNA TO CHRIST  
By Raymond Bernard, Ph. D. (Contains Many Photographs from the rare book, Monumental Christianity 
By Lundy.)  
This unique volume gives the true history of the Original Gospel of the Lord of Love and Master of 
Compassion, from which the Four Christian Gospels were Derived - A New Light on the Origin of 
Christianity.  
It is the purpose of this book to show that the origin of the Christian religion consists in the teachings of 
Chrishna, savior of Ancient India, which he enunciated to his Hindu followers on the banks of the Ganges 
5,000 years ago, and that these doctrines were introduced to the West during the first half of the first 
century by Apollonius of Tyana, who received them from his Himalayan teacher, Iarchus, during his 
studies in the Far East.  
Apollonius introduced these doctrines among the Essenes; and those who accepted and followed the 
teachings of Chrishna which he brought from India became known as Chrishnaists or Christians.  
The doctrines of Chrishna, which were the foundation of Brahmanism, which religion Chrishna originated, 
were expressed in the sacred book of the Hindus, the "Bhagavad Gita" or the Song Celestial. They 
included belief in an immanent deity who dwells within all living creatures, plant, animal and human, and 
who suffers when they suffer and has joy when they are joyful. This pantheistic conception of God led to 
the doctrine of reverence for all life or universal compassion, which led to the practice of harmlessness 
and non-violence to any living creature, which meant vegetarianism and pacifism.  
This philosophical and humane conception of God and the humanitarian practices that follow from this 
conception stands in sharp contrast with the later anthropopmorphic personal gods of the Jews and 
Christians, who were conceived as having a human form and, in the form of Jehovah, to have human 
passions, including baser ones of revengefulness, jealousy, etc. Also, being conceived as a being apart 
from his creations - animals and human beings - whom he fashioned from the "dust of the earth," he is not 
the indwelling deity of Brahmanism. The man-god of Judaism and Christianity gave man mastery over the 
lower animals and not only did not forbid him to kill and eat them, but encouraged and insisted on such 
killing in sacrifice to him in the form of burnt offerings. And, in the Old Testament, he also encouraged 
warfare and murder of those who refused to accept him and who worshipped other gods.  
It is therefore clear that the later Western conceptions of deity are quite barbarous in comparison with the 
pure and humane doctrine taught by Chrishna.  
In his work, "Buddhism and Christianity," Arthur Lillie claims that the Essenes, who were the first 
Christians, derived their doctrines and practices from Buddhist missionaries who came westward during 
the third century B. C. during the reign of King Asoka, finding converts among them; and this explains the 
similarity of the life of the Essenes with that of Buddhist monks. Lillie's conclusion, based on long and 
careful research, is that the earliest and only authentic original gospel, or Diegesis, came from the 
Essenes and that all that is anti-Essene in the four best known gospels is accretion.  
As we have mentioned, the influence of Buddhist philosophy also reached the Essenes through 
Pythagoras and Apollonius of Tyana, both of whom studied in the Himalayas and Tibet under Buddhist 
sages. The Essenes, or the first Christians, were therefore converts to Buddhism and Chrishnaism 
(Buddhism being a reformed revival of the original doctrines of Chrishna which had since degenerated at 
the hands of the orthodox Brahmanical priesthood); and the Essene founder of Christianity, Apollonius of 
Tyana, was a disciple of a Buddhist teacher (Iarchus), who combined Buddhism with western 
Pythagorean doctrines.  
In his book, Lillie shows that Essenism, or Original Christianity, represented an occidental version of 
Buddhism, and that this was the origin of Christianity, the Christian gospels having been originally Hindu 
gospels devoted to the life and teachings of Chrishna and Buddha, the name Chrishna being changed to 
Cristos or Christ, with the name Jesus added, it is claimed, that two centuries before the present era, 
Buddhist missionaries introduced these teachings into Palestine and appeared in Egypt within two 
generations of the time of Alexander the Great. This led to a mystic movement among the Jews, who took 
up these teachings as they were brought to them by the martyred Jehoshua Ben Pandira, historical 
founder of the Essene sect among the Jews, who studied in Egypt, where he derived his doctrines which 
were opposed and persecuted by the orthodox rabbis.  
In Egypt, those who accepted these Buddhist doctrines were known as Therapeuts; in Palestine, 
Nazarites or Nazarenes. They were also called Essenes. The Pythagorean Greeks affiliated themselves 
with this movement, as also did the Levitical Hebrews; and all followed Pythagoras as their leader. Thus, 
when Apollonius of Tyana appeared among them, fresh from his studies in the Himalayas under his 
Buddhist master, teaching doctrines that were a synthesis of Buddhist and Pythagorean teachings, he 
was enthusiastically received by the Essenes and hailed as the long-awaited Teacher of Righteousness 
and their leader.  
ARE YOU BEING POISONED BY THE FOODS YOU EAT? Startling Facts About Modern Food 
Poisoning. Mimeographed. ($1.50)  
THE ORGANIC REVOLUTION IN NUTRITION- The Future of Vitamins Vs. Synthetic Vitamins. 
While synthetic products were in vogue during the Vitamin Age, today the trend is definitely away 
from the synthetic and toward the natural. A revolution is taking place in the field of Vitamin 
research as scientists are learning that synthetic products of the chemical laboratory cannot 
replace the creations of Nature, just as no chemist can create a living cell or a blade of grass.  
NEWEST DISCOYERIES IN NUTRITION. It is a popular idea today that abundant consumption 
of protein, especially animal protein, is beneficial to health, whereas lack of sufficient protein 
consumption may pre-dispose to disease. Though this idea is now advanced by the medical 
profession, and is supported by the extensive advertising propaganda of the Meat Trust, it does 
not stand on any scientific basis, as the experiments of Dr. Hindhede have proven.  
MEAT - EATING A CAUSE OF DISEASE. Latest Scientific Evidence in Favor of a Low Protein 
Vegetarian Diet.  
PHYSIOLOGICAL ENIGMA OF WOMAN - Dr. Bernard. This unique manuscript contains an 
abridgement of Dr. George Starr White's rare book "Emancipation of Woman," Dr. Herbert M. 
Shelton's book, "Menstruation, Its Cause and Cure;" and the chapter "Female Degeneration," 
from Dr. G. R. Clement's Postgraduate Course. Many have wanted the rare-out-of-print articles 
by Drs. George Starr White, M.D. and Dr. G. R. Clement's Postgraduate Course  
The authors claim that a perfectly healthy woman should not menstruate. You have the concepts 
of four different doctors on the subject (from books which are now out of print). Illustrated covers.  
THE GREAT SECRET OF COUNT SAINT-GERMAIN, Rosicrucian Adept Who Preserved His 
Youth for Centuries. Was Francis Bacon the author of Shakespeare's plays; editor of King James 
Version of the Bible; Count Saint-Germain founder of Freemasonry; heir to the English throne; 
Prince Rakoczy; founder of the Rosicrucian movement; hero of Lord Bulwer Lytton's famous 
"Zanoni"; The Democracy; The originator of The Lost Word of Freemasonry; Christian 
Rosenkreutz; The Mysterious "Philosopher," who was friend and teacher to George Washington 
and Benjamin Franklin; both Freemasons and Rosicrucians; Designer of the American Flag; the 
"Mystery Man" who suddenly appeared on Independence Hall on July 4, 1776 - encouraging the 
fearful men there present to sign the Declaration of Independence - ALL THE SAME 
INDIVIDUAL? Was Count Saint-Germain sent by the Mystery School into the world to accomplish 
a definite mission?  
The author believes (as do others) that Comte de Saint-Germain and Sir Francis Bacon are the 
two greatest emissaries sent into the world by the Secret Brotherhood in the last thousand years - 
and that they were one and the same person. This personality lived for hundreds of years claims 
the author. Francis Bacon revealed the name and meaning of the Divine Word; The Masonic 
LOST WORD. Read all in this unusual manuscript with photo.  
FROM CHRISHNA TO CHRIST - And the Original Gospel of the Lord of Love and Master of 
Compassion, from which the Four Christian Gospels were Derived - A New Light on the Origin of 
Christianity. This unique volume is the finest from the pen of Dr. Bernard. Profusely illustrated 
with actual photographs from the rare book by Lundy ("Monumental Christianity").  
NUTRITIONAL SEX CONTROL AND REJUVENATION- The Greatest Book On Sex 
Regeneration ever written! The Bankruptcy of Freudianism and the Basis for a New Scientific 
Sexology and Psychiatry. Mimeographed. Don't fail to read this remarkable book, which shows 
how, through diet and sex control, it is possible to preserve and regain youth and reach a higher 
level of brain energy and achievement - so the author claims.  
SCIENCE DISCOVERS THE PHYSIOLOGICAL VALUE OF CONTINENCE - By Dr. Bernard. The 
author claims that the internal secretions of the sex glands stand at the basis of the individual's 
physical and mental vitality, and that sex hormones are present in the external as well as in the 
internal secretions of the gonads., etc.  
THE SERPENT FIRE- The Awakening of Kundalini- Secret Yoga Methods of Rejuvenation 
Through Awakening a Mysterious Power at the Base of the Spine, known as Kundalini or the 
Serpent Fire, and Causing it to Ascend to the Brain, Which it Energizes and Vitalizes. By 
Raymond Bernard.  
BREAD FROM STONES - A New and Rational System of Land Fertilization and Physical 
Regeneration By Dr. Julius Hensel Agricultural Chemist), Translated from the German (1894) - 
With Introduction by Dr. Bernard. Those who are interested in organic gardening will welcome this 
rare classic reprint  
CLEAN CULTURE - The New Soil Science - An Original and Scientific Treatise on Clean Culture, 
the Mineralized- Humus Method of Soil Fertilization Without the Use of Animal Manure - by 
Sampson Morgan. (Pioneer of the Organic Movement, who first raised his Voice in England 
against the Use of Chemical Fertilizers and Sprays.) New Revised and Enlarged, With 
Introduction by Dr. Bernard and John Maxwell, N. D.  
FLYING SAUCERS FROM THE EARTH'S INTERIOR- Dr. Raymond Bernard. This is the sequel 
to the other volume, AGHARTA. This volume has a condensation of the rare books - "A Journey 
to the Earth's Interior" - Gardner's 450 page book- and from the rare book, "The Smoky God" by 
Emerson.  
MYSTERIES OF HUMAN REPRODUCTION- By Dr. Bernard. Scientific Evidence that a Higher 
Parthenogentic Method of Human Fertilization Exists by which a Super Race may be created - a 
Method Distinct from and Superior to the Animal Method, by which Nineteen Virgin Mothers in 
England produced children a few years ago, as confirmed by investigations by a group of English 
physicians and accepted by the British Medical Association as authentic cases of Human 
Parthenogenesis or Virgin Birth. ... so says the author. He claims what these women can do - any 
woman can do.  
HERBAL ELIXIRS OF LIFE - By Dr. Bernard. Rejuvenating Herbs of the Far East believed by 
Orientals to Preserve Youth, Ward Off Old Age and Prolong Life, claims the author.  
[Dr. Bernard passed away in 1965. His publishing company is now defunct. Many of the above books of 
have been republished for many years by small private mimeographers.  
One such source is:  
Health Research P.O. Box 70 Mokelumne Hill, Ca. 95245  