Introduction to Options -- 
The Basics 
Dec. 8th, 2015 
Fidelity Brokerage Services, Member NYSE, SIPC, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917. © 2015 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.  
744692.1.0 
Disclosures 
 Options trading entails significant risk and is not appropriate for all 
investors. Prior to trading options, you must receive a copy of 
Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options, which is available 
from Fidelity Investments, and be approved for options trading. 
Supporting documentation for any claims, if applicable, will be 
furnished upon request.    
 Examples in this presentation do not include transaction costs 
(commissions, margin interest, fees) or tax implications, but they 
should be considered prior to entering into any transactions. 
 Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Option 
 The information in this presentation, including examples using actual 
securities and price data, is strictly for illustrative and educational 
purposes only and is not to be construed as an endorsement, 
recommendation. 
2 
Goal of this webinar Series 
The goal of this series is to introduce options to those who are option 
novices.  We will primarily cover the fundamentals of options.  To do this, 
we will cover topics such as; what are options, what kinds of options are 
there, and key terms and concepts option traders need to be familiar with. 
Topics that will be covered in Part I 
 What are options? 
 How are they quoted and where? 
 What are Exercise and Assignment? 
 What are In the money, At the money, and Out of the money? 
 What is Intrinsic versus Extrinsic value? 
3 
What is an Option? 
An option is simply a contractual agreement between two parties, 
the buyer and the seller. 
The contract stipulates: 
• Expiration date (Usually the third Friday of the month) 
• Strike price 
• Underlying (can be stock, ETF, or index) that the contract will be based upon 
• A standard option represents 100 shares of the underlying 
• When the holder can exercise the option (convert to the underlying)  
• Anytime before expiration (American style) 
• Only at expiration (European Style) 
4 
Why do People Trade Options? 
People trade options for many different reasons.  Since we are focusing on 
options basics today, we will focus on the most common reasons. 
1. Leverage: As stated on the last slide, one option contract controls 100 
shares of the underlying’s stock 
2. Capital outlay: You can purchase an option for significantly less than 
purchasing the underlying stock outright. 
What’s the tradeoff? 
1. Time:  Options have a finite expiration date.  They are a “wasting” 
asset.  They will either expire worthless or be turned into 
long/short shares of the underlying. 
2. Leverage:  Leverage goes both ways, it can hurt you as much as it 
helps you.   We will show an example shortly. 
5 
Call or Put? 
There are two types of options, Calls and Puts 
 Call 
• Call option is a contract that allows the option holder (buyer) to buy 100 
shares (typically) at the strike price up to the defined expiration date.  Said to 
be LONG the call. Bullish 
• Call options obligate the seller (writer) to sell 100 shares (typically) of the 
underlying at the strike price up to the defined expiration date.  Said to be 
SHORT the call.  Bearish 
 Put 
• Put option is a contract that allows the option holder to sell 100 shares 
(typically) at the strike price up to the defined expiration date.  Long the put. 
Bearish 
• Put options obligate the seller to buy 100 shares (typically) of the 
underlying at the strike price up to the defined expiration date.  Short the put. 
Bullish 
6 
Call or Put? 
In the last example we said “typically,” why? 
When we talk of options we generally talk of standardized options where one contract 
represent 100 shares of the underlying.  But what happens when something like a 
stock split occurs in the underlying, or a company takeover/merger? 
Options can be adjusted in a number of ways to account for corporate events. These 
are called Adjusted options. Lets look at what happens when there is a stock split. 
You own 1 contract for XYZ stock with a strike price of $75.00, the company 
announces a 3 for 2 stock split.  How is the option contract adjusted? 
Old option contract 100 X $75 = $7500 
New option contract  150 X $50 = $7500 
The adjustment keeps the notional value the same, the number of shares and the strike price are 
adjusted to maintain the notional value of the contract post split. Other adjustments may occur 
from corporate actions. Terms can be found in the option chain or check with the Options Clearing 
Corp to find out the new terms of an adjusted option. 
7 
Call Profit and Loss Graphs 
Short Call (Seller) 
Bearish 
Long Call (Buyer) 
Bullish 
8 
Put Profit and Loss Graphs 
Short Put (Seller) 
Bullish 
Long Put (Buyer) 
Bearish 
9 
Buyer or Seller? 
With options, you can either be a buyer or seller 
 Buyer 
• Have a right to Exercise and buy or sell 100 shares of the underlying 
• Also called a call/put holder (long the option) 
 Seller 
• Have obligation to buy/sell at Assignment  100 shares of the underlying 
• Also called a call/put writer (short the option) 
Many option novices are confused by the terms Buy to Open and Sell to Open versus 
Buy to Close and Sell to Close.  Think of it this way, any time you are creating a new 
position in your account, you are OPENING and you are either buying or selling the 
option to Open that new position.  Anytime you are removing a position from your 
account, you are CLOSING it out and either buying it back or selling it to Close the 
position. 
10 
Anatomy of an Options Symbol 
What does all that mean? -SPY is the symbol of the underlying 
15 is the year of the expiration 
12 is the month of the expiration 
19 is the day of the expiration 
C indicates that this is a Call option (as opposed 
to a P for a Put option) 
211 is the Strike Price 
This means that a holder (buyer) of this call has the right to BUY 
100 shares of SPY at $211 per share at any time until December 19, 
2015 
11 
Bid, Ask, Volume? 
Bid: The highest price that a buyer is willing 
to pay for the option.  Similar to a Bid on 
stock (options are typically quoted in $0.01 
or $0.05 increments) 
Ask: The lowest price that a seller is willing to 
sell the option at.  Also, similar to an Ask 
on a stock 
Volume:  The total number of that particular 
contract that has traded on that trading 
day.  Once again, similar to stock 
12 
The Option Chain 
Where can you find options quotes and information? 
BID 
ASK 
Volume 
Image above is from a customized Option 
Chain in Active Trader Pro 
13 
The Option Chain 
What is Open Interest? -Open Interest is the number of  ALL of those contracts in the world. It is 
not static!  The number is updated daily based on the previous day’s 
trading activity.  
Open Interest 
Image above is from a customized Option 
Chain in Active Trader Pro 
14 
15 
What is Premium? 
Premium is the amount that you pay for the option contract, or the 
proceeds that you receive from the sale of a contract. 
Example: You buy the AAPL December 2015 120 Call shown below.  The premium 
you would pay is $4.45 (the A next to the price stands for ASK, which is the price 
someone is willing to sell the contract for) 
Remember!  The option contract 
represents 100 shares, so you would 
actually pay $4.45 X 100 or $445.00 
If you were the seller of the call in 
this example, you would have 
received the premium of $445.00 
Apple trading at $121.35 at the time 
16 
What is Breakeven? 
Breakeven is the price the underlying needs to be trading at expiration 
for your trade to “breakeven”  that is, to not gain or lose any money. 
Example: You buy the AAPL December 2015 120 Call shown below.  The premium 
you pay is $4.45.  Your breakeven on this trade would be $124.45.  Why? 
Because you have the right to buy AAPL at $120, but you paid $4.45 for the right. 
Strike price +/- the premium paid or 
received = breakeven   
120 + 4.45 = 124.45 
Remember, most options are actually 
closed out prior to expiration! 
Apple trading at $121.35 at the time 
Exercise and Assignment  
Long options get exercised, Short options get assigned. 
What is Exercise? 
 Exercising a call is when the option holder opts to buy the 
underlying at the strike price (Typically 100 shares) 
 Exercising a put is when the option holder opts to sell the 
underlying at the strike price (Typically 100 shares) 
 If the option has intrinsic value of at least $0.01 at expiration, 
it will be automatically exercised.   
 If your account cannot support the position that will be 
created by auto exercise, you should close the option position! 
17 
Exercise and Assignment 
What is Assignment? 
 Assignment of a call is the option writer fulfilling their 
obligation to sell the shares at the strike price. (Typically 100 
shares). A short option can be assigned at any time! 
 Assignment of a put is the option writer fulfilling their 
obligation to buy the shares at the strike price(Typically 100 
shares).  
 As an option seller, you do not choose if/when assignment will 
occur.  The option buyer controls this, assignment happens 
when they choose to exercise their option. 
 Remember!  A short (sold) option can be assigned at any 
time!  Even if it has no intrinsic value. 
18 
Exercise and Assignment Value Examples 
If we use the previous AAPL example what would Exercise of a call look like? 
If you exercised your long AAPL call, you would purchase 100 shares of AAPL at 120.  100 X $120 
= $12,000 
Remember, many people use options for leverage, if you had 10 of those contracts and exercised 
them, it would be 10 X 100 X $120 = $120,000! 
Each contract controls 100 shares of stock.  If you only want to buy 100 shares of the underlying, 
only buy 1 call contract. 
If we use the same example, what would Assignment look like? 
If you were assigned on the one call, you would need to deliver 100 shares of AAPL and you 
would receive $120 per share, 100 X $120 = $12,000.  But what if you didn’t already own the 
shares?  You would have to go into the market and buy them at whatever price they were 
trading it, which would likely be higher than $120 per share!   
Example, what if AAPL was now trading at $130?  
It would now be 100 X $130 = $13,000 
19 
Exercise and Assignment Value Examples 
This time lets substitute an AAPL 120 put for the call.  Now what would Exercise of the 
put look like?   
If you exercised your long AAPL put, you would sell 100 shares of AAPL at 120.  You would 
receive proceeds of 100 X $120 = $12,000 
If we use the same example, what would Assignment look like? 
If you were assigned on the one put, you would need to buy 100 shares of AAPL and you would 
pay $120 per share, 100 X $120 = $12,000.    
Once again remember leverage, if you sold 10 of the puts it would be 10 X 100 X $120 = 
$120,000  you would be paying for 1000 shares of AAPL stock! 
20 
Exercise and Assignment Value Examples 
The previous examples were based on options with Stock or ETF’s as their underlying.  
Index options are slightly different. 
Index options are “European” style, meaning they can only be exercised at expiration, as 
opposed to “American” style which can be exercised at any time.  Additionally, because 
index options are based on an index (which cannot be delivered) they are settled in 
cash!   
Let’s look at an example on .SPX (S&P 500 Index) 
You are Long (Own) 1 SPX call expiring on 12/19 with a strike of 2080 
If your one SPX call were exercised because SPX closed at 2081 on expiration, you would 
receive $100 CASH into your account.    
Your option has $1 of intrinsic value X the multiplier for SPX which is $100 = $100 
21 
What is ITM, ATM and OTM? 
1. ITM stands for In the Money 
• In the money options are those options that have intrinsic value. 
• Calls with strikes below where the underlying is currently trading 
• Puts with strikes above where the underlying is currently trading 
2. ATM stands for At the Money 
3. OTM stands for Out of the Money 
• At the money options are options that have a strike price closest to where the 
underlying is currently trading 
• Out of the money options are those which have no intrinsic value. 
• Calls with strikes above where the underlying is currently trading 
• Puts with strikes below where the underlying is currently trading 
What is intrinsic value? 
22 
23 
There are 2 components to an option’s price – Intrinsic value and Time value 
Intrinsic versus Time Value  
= In the Money 
= At the Money 
= Out of the Money 
24 
There are 2 components to an option’s price – Intrinsic value and Time value 
 Intrinsic value is the measure of the true value of the “right” the option represents – it 
is the difference between the stock price and the strike price 
 Time value is a measure of “uncertainty” – the potential that the option could hold 
more intrinsic value in the future 
 All else equal, the time value erodes as expiration nears – the uncertainty about the 
stock’s price movements between now and expiration gets lower and lower 
Intrinsic versus Time Value  
Importance of Time Value 
Image above is from a customized Option Chain in Active Trader Pro 
 The Time Value of the calls and puts at each strike price is nearly equivalent 
 A covered call and a cash secured put of the same strike price have almost identical risk 
(max loss, breakeven) and reward (max gain) profiles 
 The only difference to the trader is the probability that the trade will result in the 
acquisition or sale of the underlying security 
 At the money contracts have the most time value, but is not always the best choice 
25 
What factors affect the premium? 
1. Money-ness of the option being sold (Strike Selection) 
• Out of the money options offer lower premiums  
• At the money option contracts have the most time value 
• In the money options offer higher premiums 
2. Time to expiration (Expiration Selection) 
• Nearer term expirations offer the potential for the highest annualized return but 
offer a lower up front premium 
• Longer dated expirations decay at a slower rate, but offer the advantage of more 
upfront premium (income certainty) 
3. Expected Movement from the Underlying (Implied Volatility) 
• Higher implied volatility (expected price movement) results in higher premiums 
• When selling options, if that expected volatility becomes realized volatility, it can 
result in substantial losses 
26 
Introduction to Options part 1 
This concludes today’s presentation. 
Thank you for attending.  
Please join us for our upcoming webinars: 
 December 17th, 12:00 pm EST  Introduction to Options Part 2 
 December 18th, 12:00 pm EST  Introduction to Options Part  3 
To Register, please visit the Fidelity.com Learning Center 
https://www.fidelity.com/learning-center 
For additional support, please contact a Fidelity representative  
at (800) 564-0211 
27 