 
Table of Contents
 Title Page
 Copyright Page
 Dedication
 PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
 ABBREVIATIONS
 Introduction
 PREFACE
 Mysteriorum Liber Primus
 Anno 1581 Decembris 22. Mane Mortlak
 Anno 1582. Martij die. 10. hora 11¼ Ante meridiem. Saterday
 The same Saterday after none. Hora. 5.
 1582 Martij 11 - Sonday. a Meridie hora .3. a circiter.
 Martij 14. Wensday. mane circa horam 9ã.
 Martij 15. Thursday. Hora 1¼ a meridie.
 [Mysteriorum Liber Secundus]
 Tuesday the 20 of Marche: circa 10ã mane.
 A meridie circa 2ã
 Wensday 21 Martij, circa 2ã a meridie.
 Mysteriorum, liber Tertius.
 Anno 1582 Aprilis 28 a meridie hora 4.
 Aprilis 29: Sonday: Nocte hora 8¼.
 Fryday Maij 4: hor 2½ a meridie
 Quartus Liber Mysteriorum
 1582 Die ♀ A meridie: hora 5. Nouemb. 16.
 Friday. After drinking at night, circiter horam 8 ã.
 Anno 1582: Saterday. Die 17. Nouemb: A meridie hora circiter 1 ã.
 After 7 of the clok at night. die .
 Monday. Nouembris 19: Circiter 1 ã horã a meridie
 Nouemb. 20 Tuesday, a meridie circa 2ã.
 Wensday: Nouemb 21. hora 7 a meridie
 Liber Mysteriorum Quintus - 1583 Martij 23.
Anno 1583 Martij 23. Saterday a meridie.
 Martij 24. Sonday: morning abowt 8.
 Martij 26. hor. 10 ante Meridiem.
 Martij 26. a meridie + Tuesday hor. 5½
 Martij 28. Thursday morning. Mawndy Thursday.
 Mawndy Thursday, after None. hor 3½
 On good friday; After None
 Martij 31. Easter day after none abowt 4.
 1583 Aprilis 2. Tuesday. Jesus + before none
 Aprilis.3. Wensday, Forenone †
 Aprilis .3. Wensday + After none hor 5¼
 Aprilis 4 Thursday + mane hor. 5½
 Aprilis .5. Friday + a meridie hora 5¼
 Aprilis 6. Saterday affore none hora 10¼
 Aprilis 6. Saterday after none.
 Aprilis 10. hor. 9.
 Aprilis .11. Thursday
 Aprilis 15. Monday
 Aprilis 18. Thursday morning .hor. 8. Circiter
 Thursday. Aprilis 18. after dynner
 Quinti libri Mysteriorum - Appendix
 Bibliography
 INDEX
First published in 2003 by 
Red Wheel/Weiser, LLC 
York Beach, ME 
With offices at: 
368 Congress Street 
Boston, MA 02210 
www.redwheelweiser.com
 
Copyright © 2003 Joseph H. Peterson
 All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
 including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from Red
 Wheel/Weiser, LLC. Reviewers may quote brief passages. Previously published as The Five Books of Mystical Exercises of John Dee
 as part of the Magnum Opus Hermetic Sourceworks series in a handbound edition by Adam McLean, 1985.
 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 Dee, John, 1527–1608
 John Dee’s five books of mystery : original sourcebook of Enochian magic : from the collected works known as Mysteriorum libri
 quinque / Joseph H. Peterson, editor.
 p. cm.
 Originally published: The five books of mystical experience. [S.I.] : A. Megan, 1985, in the series: Magnum Opus Hermetic
 Sourceworks. Includes bibliographical references and index.
 ISBN 1-57863-178-5 (alk. paper)
 1. Enochian magic. I. Title: Five books of mystery. II. Peterson, Joseph H. III. Title.
 BF1623.E55 D45 2003
 133—dc21
 2002151947
 
The image of Dee’s wax Sigillum Dei Aemeth Copyright © The British Museum used with permission.
 
Typeset in Sabon
 
Printed in the United States of America 
VG
 
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
 
The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of the American National Standard for Information Sciences—
 Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials Z39.48-1992 (R1997).
Dedication
 For my wife, Candy. You have supported me in so many ways, especially by helping me sort out and
 keep track of all the piles of obscure dead guy stuff. Without your help, so many things would have
 been impossible.
 For Kerry, Sarah, Lisa, and Karl. You are the best kids a parent could ever hope for. Thanks for all
 the times you shared your precious computer time.
 For my close friend, Paul Deneka, who introduced me to John Dee’s writings and continues to
 share my enthusiasm for obscure dead guys.
 For the Board of Trustees of the British Museum who granted me special permission to study
 manuscripts while I was under their age requirements, helped me during the many years that have
 passed since then, and gave me permission to publish this unique material from their collections.
 For my friend, Roger Williamson, at Magus Books for his encouragement and support over the
 years.
 For Jill Rogers at Red Wheel/Weiser, who has been great to work with. Thanks for helping to make
 this a better book.
 Finally, for Betty Lundsted, who is sincerely missed.
PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
 Dr. John Dee (1527 to 1608 or 1609) has been the subject of much interest in several fields. Several
 good book-length studies of him have appeared,1
 as well as numerous articles.2
 My intent in
 presenting this text is not to recap Dee’s life or present a new perspective, but to fill in an important
 gap that has been generally neglected. The manuscript presented adds considerable detail for the
 years 1581–1583, by most accounts the climax of his career. It sheds light on Dee’s politics, science,
 and occultism.
 For the first edition of this text, I had the simple goal of eliminating two major barriers to the study
 of John Dee and Edward Kelley. These barriers are availability and legibility of the material. With
 this new edition, I hope to address two other problems as well. First, the English of Dee’s day was
 somewhat different from that spoken today, so I have added many footnotes to clarify obscurities in
 the language. I have also translated the frequent Latin passages. Second, the subject matter of the text,
 medieval and Renaissance magic, assumes a view of the universe not commonly held today. To
 further clarify the text in this context, I have expanded the introduction and index and explained
 otherwise obscure references in the footnotes. I have also added supplementary material from Dee’s
 diary and other manuscripts.
 J. Peterson, 1999
ABBREVIATIONS
INTRODUCTION
 These secret writings of John Dee, one of the leading scientists and occultists in Elizabethan England,
 record in minute detail his researches into the occult. They were discovered in a hidden compartment
 of an old chest along with various magical implements. Although the angels made him swear never to
 reveal these doctrines to anyone not sanctioned by them, he complained, “If no man, by no means,
 shall perceive anything hereof by me, I would think that I should not do well.” Nevertheless, these
 pages were carefully concealed, and nearly lost forever. Although this present work is concerned
 primarily with his occult experiments, through it, we catch many glimpses of Elizabethan life and
 politics.
 Dr. Dee represents the true Renaissance man—a master of many areas of learning. He was born in
 1527 and lived at the height of the English Renaissance. Dee’s knowledge included astronomy,
 mathematics, navigation, medicine, geography, history, music, painting, astrology, and the occult
 sciences.
 In many ways, Dee lived at the center of conflicting forces and ideas—tradition vs. reformation,
 science vs. magic, Christianity vs. paganism (that is, Judaism, Hermeticism, and even studies of
 Arabic traditions). By studying Dee, we can gain insight into all these subjects and into the
 Renaissance as a whole. We can even throw light on our own struggle to reconcile our own conflicts.3
 Dee had many famous and powerful friends and was heavily involved in politics. He became
 scientific advisor and astrologer to Queen Elizabeth, who occasionally visited him at his home at
 Mortlake. He was instrumental in planning the expansion of the British Empire, exploring the New
 World, and, with the help of angelic agents, ushering in the new age as well. One of the main
 objectives of his life’s work was to bring about religious and social reform. It has been suggested4
 that in this endeavor he was, to some extent, successful.
 Dee began his “mystical experiments” with a solid foundation in medieval and Renaissance
 science, magic, Kabbalah, and the Hermetic arts. Further mysteries were revealed by the “angels”
 who manifested themselves, ultimately resulting in a new, unified occult system.5
 This occult system
 is perhaps closer to a face-lift than a new system. Most of it would have been familiar to occultists of
 the day, but with a veneer of new names and symbols.
 Aside from the mechanical details of Dee’s system for communicating with angels, these records
 reveal that the angels were interested in and involved with the exploration and colonization of the
 New World, and in heralding in a new age or new world order. The one aspect of these writings that
 has fascinated most, however, is that the angels delivered a complete book in an otherwise unknown
 language. They claimed this book, named Loagaeth, to be of utmost importance. Its language is the
 true language of creation so sought after by Kabbalists and by Dee himself.6
 This “angelic book” was
 later used to extract a long series of messages (or “calls”) in yet another unknown language, called
 Enochian.
 Interest in John Dee and his occult activities has increased tremendously in recent years. One
 reason for this is the growing debate over the importance of Dee’s role in history by such eminent
 scholars as Francis Yates,7
 Wayne Shumaker, and, more recently, William Sherman. Another reason
 for Dee’s popularity is undoubtedly the fact that his system was used and adapted by the Hermetic
Order of the Golden Dawn, and, subsequently, by Aleister Crowley. If one examines the Golden
 Dawn material, its appeal soon becomes clear: It draws together various occult methods into a highly
 coherent system. In adapting Dee’s system, various additions, omissions, and mistakes were made.
 This departure was compounded by uncritical, although imaginative, treatments of the Golden Dawn
 and Crowley material by some authors. The net result is a maze of misinformation.8
 The material
 presented here provides us with the keys necessary for understanding Dee’s original system as a
 whole. Since its previous editions were very limited in availability,9
 it has largely been ignored, in
 spite of its importance.
 Dee studies have created two radically different pictures of Dee—one as Magus, and the other as
 scientist-politician. I hope this volume will help bridge the gap. This polarization is partly caused by
 the lack of availability of Dee’s writings. Those interested only in the occult have largely ignored
 Dee’s published output, and those who focus on his published output will find very little evidence of
 occult influences. Placing the focus on Dee’s public writings, however, can give the modern reader
 the mistaken impression that occultism was not central to his thinking. This is simply because, in
 Dee’s day, the occult was a dangerous pastime, placing you at risk, not just from hostile spirits, but
 from the frightened public. We would do well to keep in mind the fate of the less cautious magus
 Giordano Bruno, who was burned alive at the stake by the Inquisition only a few years after Dee
 recorded these accounts. Dee’s childhood idols, Roger Bacon, Trithemius, Agrippa, Paracelsus, and
 others, all had suffered greatly because of their reputations as magi. Dee himself was imprisoned
 early in life, an experience he was careful to avoid thereafter. His thoughts and motivations, however,
 centered around his “mystical experiments.” In addition, there is an “anti-manuscript” bias to
 overcome. Although many of Dee’s books were widely circulated, they were not intended for
 publication, but rather were “directed inward, to an extremely restricted circle” for private political
 aims.10
 Another goal in presenting this text is to help elucidate the tradition in which Dee’s occult
 endeavors took place. Although it has repeatedly been observed that Henry Cornelius Agrippa was a
 major influence on Dee, most have concluded that Dee’s system is highly nontraditional. This view is
 distorted by the fact that most attention has centered around an isolated set of records that describe a
 system that, on the surface at least, appears to be highly original.11
 I hope to show that Dee and his
 spirit medium, Edward Kelley, were following traditional methods, especially during their earlier
 efforts, and that his later methods are adaptations of traditional ones, used within a traditional
 framework.
 Dee’s writings also are of interest in that they are a record of the most educated English of
 Shakespeare’s age. To some extent, Dee is even said to have influenced the English language.12
Dee’s Early Period
 John Dee was born in London on July 13, 1527. His father, Rowland Dee, was an official at the court
 of Henry VIII. John was born shortly after Luther’s break with Rome, and immediately after
 England’s, during a period of radical reform. The resurgence of classical Greek studies combined
 with new interest in Hebrew studies to create Renaissance Neoplatonism. Renaissance philosophers
 sought to integrate Greek and Hebrew traditions in an attempt to unify the rapidly disintegrating
 religious factions and end the constant political strife. They were thus the forerunners or prophets of
 the Rosicrucian and Illuminati movements.
 By the age of 23, Dee had already established a brilliant reputation, lecturing in Paris on Euclid. At
 age 31 (1558), he published his first major work, Aphoristic Introduction (Propædeumata
 Aphoristica), and at age 37 (1564), his Monas Hieroglyphica. The Monas is a highly esoteric work.
 In it, he claims to be in possession of the most secret mysteries. He wrote it in twelve days, while
 apparently in a peak (mystical) state: “[I am] the pen merely of [God] Whose Spirit, quickly writing
 these things through me, I wish and I hope to be.”13
 He claimed the work would revolutionize
 astronomy, alchemy, mathematics, linguistics, mechanics, music, optics, magic, and adeptship.14
 Like the Monas Hieroglyphica, the angel magic in the Mysteriorum Libri Quinque seeks a higher
 wisdom than science, religion, or Jewish Kabbalah—one that will unite them all, convince atheists,
 convert Jews as well as pagans, and heal Christendom.
John Dee, the Politician
 The Renaissance saw a giant leap in the evolution of the Information Age. Printed works, a recent
 innovation, were becoming more and more available, and manuscript collections were threatened
 with neglect. Dee was fascinated with books and spent vast amounts of energy and money collecting
 them. Eventually Dee’s library became “Elizabethan England’s greatest library,”15
 attracting scholars
 and dignitaries alike. It is possible that Dee’s inspiration and model for his library came from
 Johannes Trithemius, one of the greatest scholars and occultists of the sixteenth century. While abbot
 of the monastery of Sponheim in Germany, Trithemius built a library of unparalleled importance, and
 turned one of the poorest monasteries in the Palatinate into an “obligatory” place of pilgrimage for
 scholars.16
 As William Sherman has noted, “Renaissance libraries were powerful sites of intellectual
 creativity, social status, and political influence.” As such, their owners “were at once empowered
 and endangered by their collections and skills.”17
 This must have been a source of great anxiety to
 Dee.
 Dee’s library was a bustle of activity, especially in 1583, with frequent planning sessions for
 nautical expeditions, visitors borrowing and lending books, dignitaries, including the queen, and
 others, such as Francis Bacon, who sought Dee’s advice and help.18
Plans for the New World and the New Age
 Perhaps Dee’s greatest legacy is his seminal role in building Britain into a major maritime power.19
 He is usually credited with coining the phrase “British Empire.” Dee played a prominent role in plans
 to colonize the New World (involving Lord Burghley, John Davis, Adrian Gilbert, and Sir Walter
 Raleigh), and consulted the angels quite often about the venture. His interest was not merely
 patriotic.20
 He had a farsighted plan for the new (or rather restored) British Empire to compete with
 (or replace) the Hispano-Papal empire. Part of his justification was the same as Rome’s—to “carry
 the name of Jesus among the infidells to the great glory of God.”21
 The magnitude of his vision is
 reflected in the vast extent of the empire that Britain went on to establish.
 Dee associated the new empire and the New World with the new age. He was fascinated by the
 apocalyptic prophecies of his day, and tried his own hand at them based on his knowledge of
 astrology. He believed the new age would begin in a few years, perhaps in 1583 or 1584. He based
 this on astronomical models of world history published by Trithemius (De Septem Secundeis) and
 Cyprian Leowitz (De coniunctionibus magnis).22
 The fact that Dee dated two of his works23
 using his
 calculation of the “world year” allows us to calculate where he thought the world was in the
 cycle.These works place the start of the cycles at 3763 B.C.24
 Nevertheless, Dee felt the end of the
 world was immanent, largely based on astronomical observations.25
 The coming great conjunction
 was foreshadowed by the appearance of a supernova in 1572, a comet in 1577, and a solar eclipse in
 1582.
 In his scrying experiments,26
 the angels tell Dee and Kelley that “the tyme of God’s visitation” was
 “8.” Dee’s speculation that this might mean 1588 seemed to be confirmed in later scrying sessions.27
 Dee found political authority for the British Empire in the accounts of King Arthur and Owen
 Madoc, a legendary Welsh prince said to have discovered America in 1170.28
 To compete with the
 spiritual authority of Rome, however, Dee sought divine authority from the angels and God himself.
 The angels told him what he wanted to hear—that “the World begynnes with thy doings.”29
 Thus his
 scrying, publications, and political activities were all part of his grand scheme to unify the peoples,
 religions, and languages of the world through universal knowledge. An element of this plan was to
 convert the pagans of the New World, and the Jews.30
 The angels revealed details of the New World and new age on several occasions. For example:
 “What I speak hath not byn reuealed, no not in these last tymes, of the second last world
 begynne new worldes, new people, new kings
 . But I
 , & new knowledge of a new Gouernment.” “New
 worlds, shall spring of these. New manners: strange men:” “The old ways cease, the new begin.”31
 After the appearance of the Polish prince, Albrecht (or Albertus) Laski, Dee shifted his hope for a
 royal patron to Europe. In the end, Dee failed to convince any of his would-be royal patrons of the
 cosmic plan. He was also thwarted by the papal nuncio (ambassador) who managed to have him and
 Kelley expelled by Rudolf. Dee was wise enough to decline an “invitation” to Rome.32
Renaissance Magic
 By the Renaissance, magic had developed a complex theoretical and philosophical foundation. There
 was also a considerable amount of practical literature in circulation. Dee’s public and secret writings
 show the remarkable depth and breadth of his studies of magical literature. The classical
 philosophers, especially Plato and Aristotle, were the foundation on which the so-called Neoplatonic
 philosophers built. Plotinus, Porphyry, Proclus, Iamblicus, and the Christian Pseudo-Dionysius were
 all familiar to Dee, as were the Italian Neoplatonic revivalists Ficino, Pico, and others.
 The practical literature largely relies on knowing the secret names of God (mostly from the
 Hebrew Old Testament)33
 and of the angels or spirits themselves. The more cautious methods involve
 praying to God directly to send his angels.34
 The less cautious methods involve appealing to the
 spirits directly. The use of consecrated tools in ceremonial magic reflects their use in religious
 ceremonies. Most of the literature also deals with the use of talismans or symbols of some kind, and
 often with squares of letters or numbers.35
 The object of these practices, often called “experiments,” is sometimes as sublime as the vision of
 God, but frequently as base as the recovery of stolen goods or the discovery of treasure. The mention
 of treasure during a scrying session with Barnabas Saul (22 December 1581) probably reflects the
 grimoire he is using more than a specific inquiry by Dee.
John Dee, The Magus
 Dee’s reputation as a magus, or rather a conjurer, started fairly early in his life and has continued to
 this day.36
 While he was highly respected as a man of great learning within the scholarly community
 and court circles, the less educated came to fear him. He was even briefly imprisoned in 1555 on
 charges that he tried to enchant Queen Mary. He is said to have been the model for Prospero in
 Shakespeare’s play The Tempest.
 In his explanatory note to the present work, Dee writes that his interest shifted more toward the
 occult after becoming convinced of the hopelessness of human endeavors as paths to wisdom. Sloane
 3188 records his earliest occult experiments centered around scrying. These early methods were
 remarkably consistent with the occultism prevalent at the time, and Dee seems to be as widely read
 here as he was in science. He mentions the famous occultists Cornelius Agrippa and Johann Reuchlin.
 The widely known Heptameron of Peter de Abano and Arbatel’s Of Magic are also mentioned, even
 though he did not include them in his externa bibliotheca.
 Dee’s interest in angelology is indicated by his heavy annotations of such works as Pseudo
Dionysius’ Coelestis hierarchia, Richard of St. Victor’s De superdivina trinitate (1510), Scalinger’s
 Exotericarum exercitationum liber decimus (1557), Pompilius Azalus’ De omnium rebus
 naturalibus (1554), and J. Rivius’ Opera theologica (1562).37
 Although Dee was careful not to catalog his more dangerous volumes, other sources can be
 identified or deduced. One of these is Liber Juratus, or the Sworne Book of Honorius. Sloane 313
 (late fourteenth or early fifteenth century) is known to have been in his collection and contains
 marginal notes in his handwriting.38
 Liber Juratus contains detailed instructions for communicating
 with spirits, as well as obtaining the sight of God through the use of an elaborate sigil, named the
 Sigillum Dei Aemeth. Dee is directed by the angels to use this sigil “which is allready perfected in a
 boke of thyne.” Dee is also promised the sight of God (“videbis Deum”).39
 Another source that Dee
 mentions is the magical text Aldaraia sive Soyga (discussed below), which has squares of magical
 letters and heavy astrological elements.
 In addition to these, I believe that two other magical texts can be identified as having been used by
 Dee. The first is Sloane 3849 article 1, “Manner of proceding in order to discover in the crystall,”in
 which the three angels Anchor, Anachor, and Anilos are central. This, or a similar text, seems to be
 behind Dee’s first scrying session with Kelley, in which they try to call forth these three spirits.
 Another magical text I believe may have been used is Sloane 3854. The first part includes article 4
 (“Book of Consecrations”)40
 and article 5 (“Experimenta de Speculo”). In the blank space between
 these two articles (folio 75r) a second hand, which I believe can be identified as Edward Kelley’s,
 has written some notes. This manuscript is also bound with the most complete and correct manuscript
 of Liber Juratus that I have seen.
 There are many examples of medieval and Renaissance magic texts with similar methods. I include
 some examples in the appendices.
 Dee’s system started with some Hebrew-centered Kabbalah like that he found in the writings of
 Reuchlin. Kabbalistic concepts abound, including his use of Hebrew etymology, traditional Hebrew
 names of God and angels, and extracting names from tables of letters à la Abulafia. Dee had a large
 Hebrew collection in his library, and took many of the volumes with him to the continent in 1583,
showing sustained interest.
 Nevertheless, in the end his Sigillum Dei Aemeth replaced the traditional Hebrew names with new
 names, and his angelic book was not in Hebrew, but a new (or unknown old) language. This may
 reflect Dee’s (or Kelley’s) mistrust of Jews,41
 or perhaps it may have been a way to compensate for
 Kelley’s lack of knowledge of Hebrew and traditional Kabbalah. In any event, it is interesting to note
 that what Dee found in these actions is exactly what he expected to discover. Instead of the confusing
 maze of corruptions and variants found in the grimoires, he found an uncorrupted way of
 communicating with angels based on their own language, and on mathematics.
 The first angels to make their appearance at the scrying sessions all belong to the Judeo-Christian
 tradition. They are later supplemented with otherwise unknown names, derived mathematically from
 letter squares. Dee is careful to catalog their jurisdictions, apparel, and symbols for future use. The
 revealed method of invoking their help is described in detail in the action of 17 November 1582.
 In addition to the seals of the spirits, the ritual apparatus included several other items: various
 scrying stones, sometimes set in a frame; a “holy table” on which was painted or engraved various
 symbols; wax seals called Æmeth; a ring and lamin to be worn by the practitioner; and the rod “el,”
 divided into three parts, the ends painted black, the middle red.

The Mysterious Book of Soyga
 As mentioned above, Dee refers in several places to a magical text named Aldaraia sive Soyga.
 Since Roberts’ and Watson’s 1990 book, John Dee’s Library Catalogue,42
 two manuscripts of this
 work have been identified by Deborah E. Harkness. One is Sloane 8 in the British Library, and the
 other is Bodley 908 in the Bodleian library. It is possible that Sloane 8 was, in fact, the manuscript to
 which Dee refers in his records.43
 In their very first scrying session with Kelley, Dee asks the angels, “Ys my book, of Soyga, of any
 excellency?” (10 March 1582). He laments at that time, “Oh, my great and long desyre hath byn to be
 hable to read those Tables of Soyga.” Liber Loagaeth (Sloane 3189) has several tables from
 Aldaraia/Soyga appended (in Dee’s handwriting—not Kelley’s, as in the rest of the manuscript). In
 addition, Dee’s statement, “Soyga: otherwise named ysoga, and Agyos, literis transpositis” is, in fact,
 a direct quote from the Aldaraia.44
 The angel Il responds, “Soyga signifieth not Agyos,” in direct
 contradiction. This makes it probable that Kelley was not familiar with the text, and is possibly
 evidence that he was in fact carrying out a deception. I do not believe the Book of Soyga is the same
 as the “Arabick book” mentioned several times by Dee. The latter was apparently the same as that
 prized by Pontois and described as having “cost doctor dye £ 600 ready money as he the deponent did
 hear himself the said doctor afferme. . .”45
 such a vast sum.46
 There is nothing about either Soyga manuscript to justify
Scrying and Dee’s Earliest Attempts
 The premise behind Dee’s mystical experiments is the veracity of scrying, or visions seen in a crystal
 ball or other shining surface. Today, the crystal ball has become an icon for superstition, but scrying
 has been widely used and respected for divination throughout history. It even has biblical authority.47
 According to psychiatrist and researcher Raymond A. Moody, “That certain individuals do see
 visions—specifically, hypnagogic images—when gazing into a transparent or reflective surface is a
 well-established fact that can be regarded as an item of psychological knowledge.”48
 The real
 question is the value of these visions, or their interpretation.
 Scrying instructions can be found widely in occult literature, in particular in manuscripts that it was
 dangerous to possess.49
 The published sources, such as Agrippa, make scant mention of scrying.
 Scrying also appears in popular legends, such as the legends of Roger Bacon’s scrying glass in which
 anyone could see anything they wished within fifty miles.
 With few exceptions, Dee did not use scrying to see far-off happenings, or to divine the future. His
 aim was to see into the spiritual realms to receive wisdom from higher beings. The spiritual realms
 were thought to resemble, in many respects, the physical world.
 It was common for scrying practices to be accompanied by religious and occult symbols and
 ceremonies. These served to ensure the spiritual purity of the practice, but also to focus concentration
 on the intent, much as techniques for lucid dreaming do. They also served to give form, context, and
 meaning to the images seen by the scryer. For example, surrounding the scrying table with the symbols
 of the seven planets provided a means of organizing and remembering the otherwise bewildering
 maze of images. This integration of magic with the art of memory was developed to a high degree in
 Renaissance occultism.50
 Symbols and ceremonies also provided a means of controlling or manipulating the images (or, to
 use Couliano’s term, “phantasms”). For example, the scryer might place a talisman of Venus under the
 stone when he wanted to focus on affairs of the heart. This is essentially an attempt to facilitate
 communication between body and soul: “body and soul speak two languages, which are not only
 different, even inconsistent, but also inaudible to each other. The inner sense alone is able to hear and
 comprehend them both, also having the role of translating one into the other.”51
 The use of sacred
 symbols and ceremonies also helped the scryer summon courage to face the possible confrontation
 with demonic presences.
 Dee’s interest in scrying clearly goes back far earlier than the records of his scrying experiments.52
 Although he may have begun to experiment much earlier, the earliest records of Dee’s scrying begin in
 1581. On 8 March 1581, and several times during 1581, Dee records strange knocking and rapping in
 his chamber, and a voice like an owl’s shriek. These events were clearly regarded as supernatural
 and may have been related to early experiments.
 His private diary records: “May 25th, I had sight in χρυσταλλω [Crystallo] offerd me, and I saw.”
 Generally, however, Dee relied on the scrying abilities of others, as prescribed by tradition. He
 mentions that he employed two seers around this time.53
 Late in 1581, Dee began to employ Barnabas Saul as a scryer. Saul was a minister who was
 heavily involved with magic. Dee’s diary records additional details regarding his dealings with Saul:
Oct. 9th, Barnabas Saul, lying in the ........ hall was strangely trubled by a spiritual creature
 abowt mydnight. [1582] Jan. 27th, Barnabas Sawl his brother cam. Feb. 12th, abowt 9 of the
 clok, Barnabas Saul and his brother Edward went homward from Mortlak: Saul his inditement
 being by law fownd insufficient at Westminster Hall: Mr. Serjeant Walmesley, Mr. Owen and
 Mr. Hyde, his lawyers at the bar for the matter, and Mr. Ive, the clerk of the Crown Office,
 favoring the other. Feb. 20th I receyved a letter from Barnabas Saul. Feb. 21st, Mr. Skullthorp
 rod toward Barnabas. Feb. 25th, Mr. Skulthorp cam home. March 6th, Barnabas Saul cam this
 day agayn abowt one of the clok and went to London the same afternone. He confessed that he
 neyther hard or saw any spirituall creature any more. March 8th, Mr. Clerkson and his frende54
 cam to my howse. Barnabas went home agayne abowt 3 or 2 clok, he lay not at my howse now;
 he went, I say, on Thursday, with Mr. Clerkson. March 9th, Fryday at dynner tyme Mr. Clerkson
 and Mr. Talbot declared a great deale of Barnabas nowghty dealing toward me, as in telling Mr.
 Clerkson ill things of me that I should mak his frend, as that he was wery of me, that I wold so
 flatter his frende the lerned man that I wold borow him of him. But his frend told me, before my
 wife and Mr. Clerkson, that a spirituall creature told him that Barnabas had censured both Mr.
 Clerkson and me. The injuries which this Barnabas had done me diverse wayes were very great.
 July 19th, Barnabas Saul came to see me at Mortlak: I chyd hym for his manifold untrue
 reports.55
 The experiments with Saul were not regarded as successful. His sessions were largely rejected as
 false. Dee records one of these sessions in the beginning of Mysteriorum Libri Quinque.
 On 8 March 1582, Dee was visited by Edward Kelley, a.k.a. Edward Talbot. They were
 introduced by Dee’s friend Mr. Clerkson. Kelley began to scry regularly with Dee two days later.
 From Dee’s records, it is apparent that Kelley had a highly unstable personality. The relationship
 between the two men was often strained, and Kelley would storm off for months at a time. Aside from
 their conflicts, however, Dee regarded their sessions as highly successful.
Scrying Methods
 Dee used various media for scrying—several crystal balls and the famous obsidian mirror are now
 preserved in the British Museum.56
 Dee drew a picture of one of them in the record of the first scrying
 session (see below). This shows an elaborate frame with a cross at the top. This is probably the stone
 that William Lilly described as the size of a large orange, “set in silver, with a cross on the top, and
 another on the handle; and round about engraved the names of these angels, Raphael, Gabriel,
 Uriel.”57
 After intense prayer, the stone was placed in a frame and set on a specially prepared table.
 The angels were then called to appear in the stone to answer questions.
 Nicholas Clulee has argued that Dee did not seem to consider these actions magical, but rather a
 variety of religious experience. He based this partly on the observation that they do not seem to
 invoke the angels directly, as directed by the magical books. Rather, they start off with prayers to
 God, and petitions that God send his angels.58
 This is consistent with the method found in the Arbatel,
 which Dee mentions by name in the text. In his first action with Kelley, Dee is very careful to
 distinguish between “spirituall practise” and what is “vulgarly accownted Magik.” On the other hand,
 Dee and Kelley immediately proceed to “call for the good Angel Anchor, to appere in that stone to
 my owne sight.” Dee states that he “make[s] motion to god, and his good Creatures.” Also, Dee’s
 synopsis of his instructions for communicating with angels (Heptarchia Mystica and Tabula bonorum
 angelorum invocationes, bound in Sloane 3191) contains numerous invocations or “invitations”
 addressed directly to individual angels. These were based on the records Dee kept in Sloane 3188.
 It does not appear that God or the angels obliged Dee’s request that they appear to his own sight,
 but Kelley experiences vivid and detailed apparitions. As soon as the angels appear in the stone, they
 “give thanks to God, and Wellcome to the good Creature.” Then they demand the angel’s name. These
 steps are all consistent with the texts of ritual magic. In the second action, Dee is told that the method
 of invoking the archangel Michael is by “the Seven psalmes.” This is also consistent with the
 grimoires.59
 The apparitions do not always seem confined to the crystal.60
Edward Kelley, the Magician
 Edward Kelley was born on 1 August 1555. He was thus 28 years younger than Dee. He attended
 Oxford under the alias of Edward Talbot, but left after some trouble. He was later pilloried in
 Lancaster for forgery. He was 26 when he arrived at Dee’s door on 10 March 1582.61
 By this time,
 Kelley was well versed in the occult arts, including Agrippa’s works. He also possessed various
 texts on magic, at least some of which were regarded as “devilish.” Kelley was also an alchemist.
 His only book is on alchemy, and his final months were occupied with alchemical experiments for
 Rudolph II. Elias Ashmole says, “Mr. Lilly told me that John Evans informed him that he was
 acquainted with Kelly’s sister in Worchester, that she shewed him some of the gold her brother had
 transmuted, and that Kelly was first an apothecary in Worcester.”62
 He also had a brother, Thomas.
 Kelley later married Jane Cooper.
The Sigillum Aemeth and Its Variations
 The use of the Sigillum Aemeth (or Emeth) is central to Dee’s system, as well as to other forms of
 magic. The earliest examples of the Sigillum Aemeth are found in the Liber Juratus (see appendix 1).
 Most manuscripts describe the seal in great detail, but don’t actually draw it out. The versions that do
 exist vary, probably because they were based on the written description. Liber Juratus calls this seal
 the “seal of God . . . which is the beginning,in this art.”63
 Between the outer circles is to be written
 the 72–letter name of God, or Schemhamphoras. Both Agrippa and Reuchlin refer to a seal by this
 name, although I have been unable to find any descriptions or drawings of it in their writings. Dee
 was well aware of the fact that variations existed, since he asks the angels to provide a definitive
 version for his works. The version by Athanasius Kircher, which appears many years later in his
 monumental work Oedipus Aegyptiacus, is highly corrupt.64
 Dee was originally told by the angels to use a version found in one of his books. He thereupon
 consulted several sources and asked the angels to resolve the discrepancies. This prompted them to
 deliver a radically new version of the sigil.
 An examination of Dee’s original wax sigil (see figure 1, page 42), now preserved in the British
 Museum, shows differences from that found in Sloane 3188.
The Holy Table and Its Variations
 Dee’s scrying was conducted on a specially constructed table, two versions of which were described
 to him by the angels. The first, whose design is now lost, was later declared by the angels to be false.
 The second design is apparently similar to the first. It consists of a large hexagram containing a
 square of letters. Surrounding the hexagram is a border containing additional letters. Although the
 original table does not appear to have survived, it was described in detail by Elias Ashmole, who
 saw it in John Cotton’s library. It was “composed of 3 boards broad-waies besides the borderings; of
 a fine grained wood & very heavy, but the scent now lost.” He described the Enochian letters as
 painted in red on a gold background, between two blue lines. The seven sigils, or “ensigns of
 Creation” were also painted with red letters and blue lines. The lines of the hexagon were gold, and
 the central square had gold letters and blue lines.65
 (The engraving found in Dee’s True and Faithful
 Relation . . . does not correspond exactly with the description in Sloane 3188. See figure 3, page 43.)
 As with the Sigillum Aemeth described above, this design is a variation of designs found in magic
 texts. It is likely that Dee employed one of the conventional designs in his early scrying before the
 angels revealed their version.
 The instructions given in the grimoires concerning the holy table probably give a fairly accurate
 idea of how Dee proceeded in these experiments. In appendices 3, 4, and 5, I present excerpts from
 the Theurgia Goetia, Art Pauline, and Ars Almadel. The Art Pauline seems particularly close to
 Dee’s method. The table contains a hexagram with the seven planetary seals arranged around it (see
 figure 5, page 44). The spirit’s seal is placed on the appropriate planetary seal. Dee was instructed
 that the seven seals could be constructed separately and arranged around the table, or they could be
 painted onto the table.
 The third example is from the Ars Almadel. This gives a method for calling forth the spirits that
 govern the four directions, north, south, east, and west. Here, we also find a hexagram on the holy
 table, and the use of wax sigils. This time, there is a border around the table with holy names drawn
 around it. In the center of the hexagram is a small triangular seal with more names (see figures 6 and
 7, pages 45–46). Aldaraia sive Soyga also contains diagrams reminiscent of Dee’s (see figure 4, page
 44).
Other Ritual Implements
 According to the Key of Solomon,66
 Heptameron, Lemegeton,67
 and other magical texts, the master
 should wear on his chest a lamin with a hexagram. Dee is likewise told to prepare a lamin to be used
 for this purpose, but his was triangular, thus symbolizing his name (∆ = Dee). He is later given a new
 version, the original version having been declared false. The final version has Enochian lettering.
 Dee is also instructed to prepare another ritual implement, the ring of Solomon. Solomon’s magical
 ring appears in early magical literature. For example, in the Testament of Solomon (first to third
 century A.D.), Solomon is given the magical ring by the archangel Michael.68
 He uses it to call and
 control the demons. The archangel Michael likewise reveals Solomon’s ring to Dee, stating that it
 was by it that Solomon worked all his wonders. The Testament of Solomon was known in medieval
 manuscripts and could have been known to Dee.69
The Spirits
 Five archangels are central to Dee’s actions: Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, and Annael. This
 grouping is common in medieval and Renaissance occult works. In Liber Juratus, the first four are
 known as the “Angels of the 4 winds.” Agrippa calls them the “four angels ruling over the corners of
 the world.”70
 The Magical Calendar gives the same.71
 The names of the first four are also found
 written on the frame that holds the scrying crystal in Trithemius’ method of calling angels into a
 crystal.72
 Michael and Gabriel are the only two angels mentioned by name in the Old Testament.
 Raphael is mentioned in the Apocryphal Book of Tobit, and Uriel is well known in noncanonical lore.
 Annael is relatively unknown.
 The meanings of the Hebrew names and their compass allocations are:
 During their first scrying session, Dee and Kelley called three angels: Anchor, Anachor, and Anilos.
 These names also occur in mainstream occult sources. In the Heptameron or Magical Elements of
 Peter de Abano, they are mentioned in the oration to be said when the vesture is put on.73
 It is known
 that Dee made use of that book, but he must have been following another source here, since the names
 are not exactly the same. A likely source is Sloane 3849, article 1, “Manner of preceding in order to
 discover in the crystall,” where these three angels are central.
 It would be interesting to try to trace the development of this oration. The Heptameron version is
 as follows:
 Ancor, Amacor, Amides, Theodonias, Anitor, by the merits of thy Angel, O Lord, I will put on
 the Garments of Salvation, that this which I desire I may bring to effect: through thee the most
 holy Adonay, whose kingdom endureth for ever and ever. Amen74
 The Clavicula Salomonis gives the following:
 Amor, Amator, Amides, Ideodaniach, Pamor, Plaior, Anitor; through the merits of these holy
 Angels will I robe and indue myself with the vestments of Power, through which may I conduct
 unto the desired end those things which I ardently wish, through Thee, O most Holy ADONAI,
 whose Kingdom and Empire endureth forever. Amen.75
The Lemegeton gives:
 By the figurative mystery of these holy vestures I will clothe me with the armour of salvation in
 the strength of the Most High, ANCHOR; AMACOR; AMIDES; THEODONIAS; ANITOR; that
 my desired end may be effected through Thy Strength, Adonai; unto whom the praise and glory
 will for ever and ever belong. Amen.76
 Liber Juratus contains the earliest version with which I am familiar. It is numbered oration 17:
 O Jesu the sonne of the incomprehensible god,
 hancor hanacor hamylos iehorna theodonos heliothos phagor corphandonos norizane corithico
 hanosae helsezope phagora.
 ELEMINATOR candones helos helee resphaga thephagayn theundyn thahonos micemyahe
 hortahonas nelos behebos belhores hacaphagan belehothol ortophagon corphandonos born in the
 shape of a man for us sinners and yow holy angells heliothos phagnoraherken and teche me and
 gouerne me [hic oic petitionem tuam sed p visione diuina dic ut sequitr] that I may come to
 obtayne the visyon of the deyte throwgh thee glorious and moste gentle and moste almightie
 creator oure lyuyng lorde holy infinite godely and euerlastinge to whome be prayse honor and
 glorye worlde withowt ende. Amen.77
 The Ars Notoria has a very similar oration, numbered 24 and called “The Oration of the Physical
 Art.” Its purpose is for determining the condition of a sick person:
 Ihesus fili Dominus Incomprehensibilis:
 Ancor, Anacor, Anylos, Zohorna, Theodonas, helyotes Phagor, Norizane, Corichito, Anosae,
 Helse Tonope, Phagora
 [another part of the same orison:]
 Elleminator, Cardones helosi, Tophagain, Tecendum, Thaones, Behelos, Belhoros, Hocho
 Phagan, Corphandonos, Humanae natus & vos Eloytus Phugora: Be present ye holy Angels,
 advertise and reach me, whether such a one shall recover, or dye of this infirmity.78
 The Ars Notoria reproduces most of the Orations found in the Liber Juratus, though in slightly altered
 forms.
 In Liber II, two other conventional lists of angels are given. The first is: Zaphiel, Zadkiel, Cumael,
 Raphael, Haniel, Michael, and Gabriel. The second is: Zedekieil, Madimiel, Semeliel, Nogahel,
 Corabiel, and Leuenael. Most of these names are identical to those given by Agrippa in his “Scale of
 the number seven.” The first list corresponds to the “seven angels which stand in the presence of
 God.” This also corresponds to the list of seven archangels according to Geonic lore, as well as that
 of Pseudo-Dionysius.79
 The second list corresponds to the Hebrew names for the seven planets, with
 the name of God, “EL,” added to each. It is also found in Agrippa, book 3.
Description of the Manuscript
 One of the most remarkable things about Dee, as exemplified by these records, is his meticulous
 attention to detail. In fact, Dee’s are probably the most detailed records of the actual practice of
 ceremonial magic extant.
 The title of the book is slightly ambiguous. “Mysteriorum,” as in Mysteriorum Libri, can mean
 either mysteries or secret rites. Both meanings seem fitting in this context.
 The manuscript consists of 104 folios, mostly in Dee’s hand. It measures approximately 320mm by
 205mm. It contains a short preface by Elias Ashmole, and is bound with notes by Ashmole, many of
 which are in his stenographic notation.80
Synopsis of Dee’s “Mystical Experiments” (1581–1583)
 In his Mysteriorum Libri Quinque, Dee records prophetic visions (e.g., the Spanish Armada),
 visions of angels, magical instruction, and religious teachings. A few of the key messages of the
 angels include:
 • Flesh is vile and corrupt (Gnostic or Neoplatonic attitude);
 • Mercy for the repentant is necessary;
 • Temptation of the faithful is necessary in order to show God’s mercy;
 • The immanent coming of the antichrist;
 • The immanent fall of existing political and religious establishments as punishment for
 mankind’s corruption, to be replaced by new, righteous ones.
 Although a lot of material remains obscure, especially passages from the “holy book,” I believe
 Christopher Whitby is correct in dismissing the theory of cryptographic messages hidden in these
 records.81
 There is suprisingly little discussion of alchemy in these records, especially in view of the fact that
 Dee pursued it actively during this period.82
 Perhaps Dee did not mention it here because he didn’t
 want to reveal his alchemical work to Kelley, who probably came to Dee for that purpose. Perhaps
 this helps explain Kelley’s bouts of anger at Dee. One might also wonder if Kelley brought the scroll,
 book, and red powder in order to entice Dee into letting him in on Dee’s own secret alchemical work.
 The evidence that there was more to the visions than simply conscious deception from Kelley will be
 discussed later.

The Book of Angelic Wisdom
 Dee seems to have had an almost obsessive facination with the lost Apocrypha, especially the Book
 of Enoch, which is mentioned and even quoted in the Bible (Jude 14), and Esdras. He is told by the
 angels that the Apocrypha are not lost, but in the keeping of the Jews.83
 Most of his mystical exercises
 are focused on recovery of the lost wisdom that these books represented to him.
 The core of this book describes the revelation of a book of angelic wisdom, Liber Loagaeth (so
 named by Dee in A True and Faithful Relation . . . ). It is reported to be in the tongue of the angels.
 Only a few angelic words are translated in these manuscripts. The first parts of this book were
 dictated by Kelley and recorded meticulously by Dee in Sloane 3188. Later parts were written by
 Kelley directly and are now found in Sloane 3189. The latter manuscript is incomplete in that it does
 not repeat the earlier material. It is also bound with four tables from the Book of Soyga, written in
 Dee’s handwriting. Since the angels state that the angelic book contains forty-nine leaves (one of
 which cannot be revealed), it is clear that the four tables from Soyga do not belong to it.
 Dee was instructed to rewrite the book in the delivered script, but this does not seem to have been
 done. One copy was to be bound in blue. Another, “whose skin shall bear Silver,” was to be “in
 length; 8 [inches], in breadth 7. ”84
 The importance of Liber Loagaeth cannot be overemphasized. From it would “be restored the holy
 bokes, which haue perished euen from the begynning, and from the first that liued.” The truths it
 contains will end religious disputes and restore religious unity. “Which when it hath spread a while,
 THEN COMMETH THE ENDE.”85
 In short, it will usher in the new age. Since the book is so central
 to these angelic communications, it is amazing that it has remained unpublished.
Synopsis of Dee’s True & Faithful Relation
 The record of Dee’s experiments continues in later manuscripts. The bulk of the later material was
 published in 1659 by Meric Casaubon as A True & Faithful Relation . . . Between Dr. John Dee . . .
 and some Spirits. These records were published by Casaubon with the intent of discrediting Dee and
 Kelley. The Casaubon edition, it should be noted, is full of typographic errors. Reliance on it alone,
 without the manuscript sources, has sadly resulted in the perpetuation of many errors.
 A True & Faithful Relation takes up where Mysteriorum Libri Quinque left off. It goes on to
 describe their six-year missionary journey to the continent. The revelations of the mystical heptarchy
 were followed by that of the 30 “Aethyrs,” the “48 Claves Angelicae,” and the four “Enochian
 Tables.” The later material included a second language popularly known as “Enochian.”
 Dee’s mission to the court of Rudolph II in Prague cannot be considered a success. An occultist
 himself, Rudolph proved very unsupportive. In fact, Dee and Kelley narrowly escaped the papal
 nuncio and the possibility of facing the deadly Inquisition. Dee returned to England in 1589. Kelley
 remained behind and had limited success in alchemical experiments for Rudolph. He died trying to
 escape in 1595.
Dee’s Later Life
 The final period of Dee’s life and career have been judged variously as one of disgrace and failure,
 or as one of continued success and renown. I think William Sherman has made a credible case for the
 latter view.86
 While it is clear that his mission to the continent cost him politically, Dee continued to
 maintain his contacts and influence, and even served in an official capacity to King James I when he
 succeeded Queen Elizabeth in 1603. He continued his scrying experiments, but never again achieved
 the dramatic results he had seen with Kelley. While the promised new age never materialized in the
 dramatic and apocalyptic way he had visualized, history has acknowledged Dee’s vital role in
 shaping our modern world.
Adaptation of Dee’s System by Later Occultists
 Dee’s activities and writings have made a deep impact on later occult movements. Among the fruits of
 his labor is a heavy influence on the German Rosicrucian movement, whose manifestos began to
 appear around 1610.87
 As mentioned above, Dee’s experiments also had a great influence on the Golden Dawn.
 Unfortunately, the process of adapting and assimilating Dee’s system was undertaken with uncritical
 methods and incomplete materials. In particular, these efforts have been based almost entirely on
 Casaubon’s True & Faithful Relation, with all its typographic errors. In many particulars, the
 Casaubon edition is impossible to understand without the Mysteriorum Libri Quinque.
The Four Angelic Tablets
 Four tables of letters were produced during the later conferences.88
 These tables served two different
 purposes: the production of ninety-one names that correspond to the ninety-one parts of the world (as
 catalogued by Agrippa in his Occult Philosophy I, chap. 31), and the production of invocations
 (“Tabula Bonorum”) to be used with the names. The Golden Dawn adaptation of Dee’s system places
 heavy emphasis of these tables.
 Christian Wilby has written an excellent article on the four angelic tablets. There he states:
 Unfortunately for later day occultists, the so-called synthetic genius—I prefer to call it rampant
 eclecticism—of McGregor Mathers has obscured the field of vision on this problem for too
 long. For some reason best known to himself, Mathers was content to use the originally received
 tablets and ALL of the emmendations of the “corrected” version. This has produced, to the
 detriment of everybody, one of the biggest mish-mashes ever to grace the Tradition.89
 Another inaccuracy in the Golden Dawn system is the compass allocations used for the four angelic
 tablets. The original allocations given to Dee were later corrected by the angels.90
 The correct
 allocations are also given by Dee in his synopsis of his magical system (see Sloane 3191). These
 errors have been perpetuated by more recent writers.
History of the Manuscript
 In addition to the preface by Elias Ashmole, further history of the manuscript is found in the following
 notes written on the end sheets:
 Ms A. 3188./XVI F
 This volume is in Dr. Dee’s own handwriting, as far as fol 108.
 A fair copy of it by Elias Ashmole was purchased at Sir Joseph Jekyll’s sale, Jan 1739/40 (lot
 465) and is now Ms. Sloane 3677.
 The original Mss. of the remaining Books are in the Cottonian Collection, Appendix XLVI but
 were formerly (erroneously) numbered as Add. Mss. No. 5007 A.B.C.
 J.M. Jan 1856
 Dr. John Dee’s Conference with Angels from Dec 22 1581. to May 30 1583. being what
 preceeds the other Conferences printed by Dr. Meric Causabon [sic] Lond. 1659. in folio.
 With a preface by Elias Ashmole An: 1672.
Notes on This Edition
 This edition of John Dee’s spiritual diaries was prepared from the original manuscript in Dee’s own
 handwriting. The original manuscript is preserved in the British Library.91
 of this material in a short manuscript, De Heptarchia Mystica.92
 Dee prepared a synopsis
 This latter manuscript provides
 some material that has been lost from the original manuscript, along with additional explanatory
 notes. All material used by Dee in his synopsis are printed in bold font to indicate its special
 importance. Additional notes from De Heptarchia Mystica are marked -D (HM).
 The text has been normalized in some particulars. The personal pronoun thee is sometimes written
 thé or the in the manuscript. These have all been resolved into thee. The tittle—or macron (~),
 usually indicating a missing “m” or “n”—has been expanded in nearly all cases. Except for these
 particulars, everything else has been preserved, including spelling, capitalization, punctuation, and
 underscores. Marginal notes are incorporated into the text as footnotes. Square brackets and
 parentheses are Dee’s. All editor’s notes are denoted by -Ed.
 Ashmole’s notes are denoted by -E.A. Bound with the manuscript are partial transcriptions and
 notes on this manuscript and the printed diaries by Elias Ashmole. Most of this is in Ashmole’s
 shorthand cipher. Some of these notes have also been included in this edition. Asmole’s “fair copy” is
 full of careless errors.This is very surprising, since he apparently thought the book of utmost
 importance.
 In preparing this edition, I took the opportunity to review Christopher Whitby’s doctoral thesis.
 Garland Press printed a limited edition of this in 1988. It was poorly reproduced from his typewritten
 thesis, making it completely illegible in many spots. I found Whitby’s introductory material very well
 researched and useful, although I was surprised at the number of errors in transcription and
 translation. Also unfortunate is the fact that Whitby doesn’t compare Sloane 3188 with Dee’s
 manuscript Heptarchia Mystica, where Dee collects excerpts from the Mysteriorum Libri
 Qunique.93
 These compensate greatly for much of the damage and illegibility of the latter, much more
 so than Ashmole’s transcriptions. Although Whitby makes note of its importance, he doesn’t make
 much use of it.
Conclusions: The Evidence
 Colin Wilson has written: “Dee is one of the few great magical adepts of the past who can present us
 with some practical evidence of the existence of non-human entities.”94
 How solid is this evidence?
 The most convincing evidence is perhaps the “Enochian” language revealed by the angels. Enochian
 has been extensively studied by Donald Laycock, a prominent linguist. His comments indicate that he,
 for one, is not entirely convinced.95
 The second body of evidence is the word and credibility of John Dee. It must be remembered that
 he was regarded as one of the most educated people of his age, acknowledged to have impressive
 scientific credentials. In at least two places, he reports firsthand experience of supernatural events. In
 his diary, he writes, “I had sight in Crystallo offerd me, and I saw.”96
 And in the Mysteriorum Libri
 Quinque, he reports, “I fele: and (by a great thundring noyce, thumming thuning myne eares) I
 perceyue the presence of some spirituall creature abowt me.”97
 He also witnessed the seemingly
 miraculous materialization of the stone (21 November 1582). On the other hand, it must be admitted
 that Dee was highly motivated to believe, and thus was more likely to misinterpret events.
 The largest body of evidence comes in the form of the word and credibility of Edward Kelley.
 Views of him range from that of a highly gifted scryer to an outright charlatan. I am inclined to believe
 that the truth lies somewhere in the middle. Clulee concluded that Kelley
 . . . may well have consciously fabricated everything to deceive Dee, but his bouts of emotional
 anxiety and arguments with the spirits in the course of his visions, his reluctance to continue
 except for Dee’s desperate pleadings, and his admission of the visions to religious authorities in
 Prague when that might have had serious consequences all suggest that more than conscious
 deception was involved (TFR, 64, 102, 370).98
 Although Kelley often questioned the divine
 character of the angels, he seems to have believed in their reality as firmly as Dee, and while it
 is clear that the revelations of the angels through Kelley were often prejudiced in favor of
 Kelley’s interests in particular circumstances, they also reflect what Kelley knew of Dee’s
 interests. In a number of places in the minutes Dee has noted the similarity of the angelic
 revelations to material in Agrippa, Reuchlin, Trithemius, and Peter of Abano, and since Kelley
 lived with Dee and had access to his library, the revelations are very likely the joint product of
 Kelley’s imagination and stock of knowledge and what he knew of Dee’s thinking from their
 discussions and his reading among books of current interest to Dee.99
 Dee and Kelley’s actions may be compared with so-called UFO abductees’ recovered memories,
 wherein a “hypnotist” puts the “witness” into a suggestible state, and, through leading questions,
 manages to arrive at all sorts of “memories.” The process may not be unlike the art of taking political
 polls. Of course, the better therapists and pollsters are trained to avoid biased results.
 Another similarity with the UFO phenomena is the apparent trickster nature of the entities. They
 seem to combine convincing elements with apparent nonsense in a way that has led some researchers
 to theorize deep psychological manipulation.100
 Uri Geller’s suspicion that there was just some
 “goddam little clown that is playing with us” sounds hauntingly similar to many of Kelley’s
 complaints.
Other significant evidence lies in the various accurate predictions (e.g., Mary’s beheading, the
 Spanish Armada, the homecoming of the Jews). These must, however, be weighed against those
 predictions that weren’t accurate (e.g., prophecies of doom, Laski’s future).101
 Another event that
 deserves mention is a secret conversation between Dee and the angels, held in Greek in order to
 prevent Kelley from understanding it. Aside from this incident, the angels’ use of Latin seems to
 reflect Kelley’s limited schooling in that language. When using Latin, they tend to deliver fixed
 speeches and avoid discourse. Also, as noticed by Calder, the angels “increase in fluency through the
 years.”102
 A quick survey of how practical the angel magic was to Dee is even less convincing. Although
 Dee’s aims were not only practical, but mystical as well, the results do not seem to be very reliable:
 Some of the instructions, such as those concerning etymology and geography, are straight out of
 textbooks. This is also true of the names of angels, their descriptions, offices, and so forth. The
episode of the dictation of the table can easily be seen as evidence that Kelley was fabricating the
 “revelations.” First Dee is told that the sigil Aemeth was correct in his books, but when confronted by
 conflicting versions, the “angels” produce yet another version. At one point, Kelley takes the sigil to
 his room to correct it. Later, he frequently interrupts sessions when the extraction methods fail. This
 may mean that Kelley needed time to figure out where his mistakes were. And what are we to make of
 the episode in which Kelley produces a drawing in his own handwriting that appears to be a
 prototype of one of the diagrams? He proclaimed it a counterfeit, and Dee congratulated himself in
 not succumbing to doubt, but trusting God.
 Indeed, the angels often seem to be telling Dee and Kelley what they want to hear to gain their
 cooperation, but their reasons are not apparent.
 Figure 1. Dee’s wax Sigillum Dei Aemeth.
 © The British Museum
Figure 2. Excerpt from. Aldaraia sive Soyga.
 Figure 3. The Holy Table, from Causabon.
Figure 4. Diagrams from Aldaraia sive Soyga.
 Figure 5. Art Paulina.
Figure 6. Ars Almadel.
Figure 7. The Almadel from Hermann Gollancz, Sepher Mafteah Shelomoh, 1914.
PREFACE
 BE IT REMEMBERED, that the 20th of August 1672, I received by the hands of my servant Samuell
 Story, a parcell of Dr: Dee’s manuscripts, all written with his owne hand; vizt: his Conference with
 Angells, which first began the 22th of Dec: Anno: 1581, & continued to the end of May Anno: 1583,
 where the printed booke of the remaining conferences (published by Dr: Cawsabon) begins, & are
 bound up in this volume.
 Beside these, the booke intituled, The 48 Claves Angelicae,103
 Auxilij & Victoria104
 also, Liber Scientia Terrestris
 (these two being those very individuall bookes which the angells commanded to
 be burnt,105
 & were after restored106
 by them as appeares by the printed Relation of Dr: Dee’s
 Actions with Spirits pag: 418 & 419) The booke intituled De Heptarchia Mystica Collectaneorum
 Lib: Primus,107
 and a booke of invocations or Calls, begining with the squares filld with letters,
 about the black cross. These 4 bookes I have bound up in another volume.108
 All which, were a few daies before delivered to my said servant, for my perusall (I being then at
 Mr: William Lillies109
 house at Hersham in Surrey) by my good freind Mr: Thomas Wale, one of his
 maiesties warders in the Tower of London.
 The 5th of Sept: following Mr: Wale (having heard of my retourne to towne) came to my office in
 the Excise Office in Broadstreete, & told me he was content to exchang all the foresaid bookes, for
 one of myne, vizt: The Institution, Lawes & Ceremonies of the most Noble Order of the Garter, to
 this I agreed, and provided one, which I sent him fairely bound, & gilt on the back.110
 On the 10th: of the said Sept: Mr: Wale came thither to me againe, & brought his wife with him,
 from her I received the following account of the preservation of these bookes, even till they came to
 my hands, vizt: That her former husband was one Mr: Jones111
 a confectioner, who formerly dwelt at
 the Plow in Lumbardstreet London, & who, shortly after they were married, tooke her with him into
 Adle streete among the joyners, to buy some houshold stuff, where (at the corner house) they saw a
 chest of cedarwood, about a yard & halfe long, whose lock & hinges, being of extraordinary neate
 worke, invited them to buy it. The master of the shop told them it had ben parcell of the goods of Mr:
 John Woodall Chirurgeon (father to Mr: Thomas Woodall late Serjant Chirurgeon to his now Maiestie
 King Charles the 2nd: (my intimate friend) and tis very probable he bought it after Dr: Dee’s death,
 when his goods were exposed to sale.
 Twenty yeares after this (& about 4 yeares before the fatall fire of London) she & her said husband
 occasionally removing this chest out of its usuall place, thought they heard some loose thing ratle in it,
 toward the right hand end, under the box or till112
 thereof, & by shaking it, were fully satisfied it was
 so: Hereupon her husband thrust a peece of iron into a small crevice at the bottome of the Chest, &
 thereupon appeared a private drawer, which being drawne out, therein were found divers bookes in
 manuscript, & papers, together with a litle box, & therein a chaplet of olive beades, & a cross of the
 same wood, hanging at the end of them.
 They made no great matter of these bookes &c: because they understood them not, which
 occasioned their servant maide to wast about one halfe of them under pyes & other like uses, which
 when discovered, they kept the rest more safe.
 About two yeares after the discovery of these bookes, Mr: Jones died, & when the fire of London
hapned, though the chest perished in the flames, because not easily to be removed, yet the bookes
 were taken out & carried with the rest of Mrs: Jones her goods into Moorefields, & being brought
 safely back, she tooke care to preserve them; and after marrying with the foresaid Mr: Wale, he came
 to the knowledge of them, & thereupon, with her consent, sent them to me, as I haue before set downe.
 E. Ashmole
Anno 1581: 1582
 Mysteriorum Liber Primus
 Mortlaci
 *1*
 Præter alias meas extemporaneas preces, et eiaculationes ad Deum vehementiores: Hæc una,
 maximè usitata fuit
 Oratio mea Matutina, Vespertinaque: pro Sapientia.113
 In nomine Dei Patris, Dei Filij, Dei Spiritus Sancti.
 Amen.
 Omnipotens, Sempiterne, vere, et viue Deus, in adiutorium meum intende: Domine Dominantium,
 Rex Regum, Jeouah Zebaoth, ad adiuuandum me festina:
 Gloria Deo, Patri, Filio, et spiritui Sancto: Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper et in sæcula
 sæculorum: Amen.
 Recte sapere, et intelligere doceto me, (Ô rerum omnium Creator,) Nam Sapientia tua, totum est,
 quod volo: Da verbum tuum in ore meo, (Ô rerum omnium Creator,) et sapientiam tuam in corde meo
 fige.
 O Domine Jesu Christe (qui sapientia vera es, æterni et Omnipotentis tui Patris) humilimè tuam oro
 Diuinam Maiestatem, expeditum mihi ut mittere digneris, alicuius pij, Sapientis expertique Philosophi
 auxilium, ad illa plenissimè intelligenda perficiendaque, quæ maximi valoris erunt ad tuam laudem et
 gloriam amplificandam: Et si Mortalis nullus iam in terris viuat, qui ad hoc munus aptus sit: vel qui
 ex æterna tua providentia, ad istud mihi præstandum beneficium assignatus fuerit: Tunc equidem
 humilimè, ardentissimè et constantissimè a tua Diuina Maiestate requiro, ut ad me de cælis mittere
 digneris bonos tuos Spirituales Ministros; Angelosque, videlicet Michaëlem, Gabrielem, Raphaëlem
 ac Urielem: et (ex Diuino tuo fauore) quoscunque, alios, veros, fidelesque tuos Angelos, qui me plene
 et perfecte informent et instruant, in cognitione, intelligentiaque vera et exacta, Arcanorum et
Magnalium tuorum (Creaturas omnes tuas, illarumque naturas, proprietates, et optimos usus,
 concernentium) et nobis Mortalibus Scitu necessariorum; ad tui nominis laudem, honorem, et gloriam;
 et ad solidam meam, aliorumque (per me,) plurimorum tuorum fidelium consolationem: et ad
 Inimicorum tuorum confusionem, et subversionem. Amen. Fiat Jeouah Zebaoth: Fiat Adonay, fiat
 Elohim. O beata, et superbenedicta Omnipotens Trinitas, Concedas mihi (Joanni Dee) petitionem
 hanc, modo tali, qui tibi maximè placebit.114
 Amen.
 Ab anno 1579. hoc ferè modo: Latinè, vel Anglicè; (ast circa annum 1569 alio et peculiari,
 particulari modo: interdum pro Raphaële, interdum pro Michaële) ad Deum præces fundere: mihi
 gratissimum fuit: Mirabilem in me faciat Deus Misericordiam suam.115
 Amen
 John Dee his Note
 116
 ,117
 ,118
 ,119
 ,120
 ,121
...icensia ...... rig122
 Ad Deum Omnipotentem Protestatio fidelis: 
ad perpetuam rei memoriam123
 Anno 1582.
 O God Almighty, thow knowest, & art my director, and witnes herein, That I haue from my youth up,
 desyred & prayed unto thee for pure & sownd wisdome and understanding of some of thy truthes
 naturall and artificiall: such, as by which, thy wisdome, goodnes & powre bestowed in the frame of
 the word might be browght, in some bowntifull measure under the Talent124
 of my Capacitie, to thy
 honor & glory, & the benefit of thy Servants, my brethern & Sistern, in, & by thy Christ our Saviour.
 And for as much as, many yeres, in many places, far & nere, in many bokes, & sundry languagis, I
 haue sowght, & studyed; and with sundry men conferred, and with my owne reasonable discourse
 labored, whereby to fynde or get some ynckling, glyms, or beame of such the forsaid radicall truthes:
 But, (to be brief) after all my forsaid endevor I could fynde no other way, to such true wisdome
 atteyning, but by thy extraordinary gift: and by no vulgar Schole doctrine, or humane Invention. And,
 Seing, I haue red in thy bokes, & records, how Enoch enioyed thy favor and conversation, with
 Moyses thow wast familier: And allso that to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Josua, Gedeon, Esdras,
 Daniel, Tobias, and sundry other, thy good Angels were sent, by thy disposition, to instruct them,
 informe them, help them, yea in worldly and domesticall affaires, yea and sometimes to satisfy theyr
 desyres, dowtes & questions of thy Secrets: And furdermore Considering, the Shew-stone, which the
high preists did use, by thy owne ordering: wherein they had lights and Judgments in theyr great
 dowtes: and considering allso that thow (O God) didst not refuse to instruct thy prophets, (then,
 called Seers) to give true answers to common people of things æconomicall, as Samuel, for Saul,125
 seeking for his fathers asses being gon astray: and of other things vulgar true predictions, whereby to
 wyn credyt unto thy waightier affayres: And thinking with my self, the lack of thy wisdome; to me, to
 be of more importance, then the Value of an Asse or two, could be to Cis, (Saul his father): And
 remembring what good cownsayle thy Apostle James giveth, saying, Si quis autem vestrûm indiget
 sapientia, postulet a Deo, &c.126
 And that Salomon the wise, did so, euen immediately by thy self,
 atteyne to his wonderfull wisdome. Therfore, seeing I was sufficiently towght and confirmed, that this
 wisdome could not be come by at mans hand or by humane powre, but onely from thee (Ô God)
 mediately127
 or immediately) And having allwayes a great regarde & care to beware of the filthy
 abvse of such as willingly and wetingly, did invocate & consult (in diuerse sorts) Spirituall creatures
 of the damned sort: angels of darknes, forgers & patrons of lies & untruthes: I did fly unto thee by
 harty prayer, full oft, & in sundry manners: sometymes Crying unto thee, Mittas lucem tuam et
 veritatem tuam, que
 me ducant &c,128
 sometymes Recte sapere et intelligere doceto me, Nam
 sapientia tua totum est quod volo: &c,129
 tuam in corde meo fige &c.130
 sometymes, Da verbum tuum in ore meo, et sapientiam,
 And having perceyued by some slight experiens with two diuerse
 persons, that thow hadst a speciall care to give me thy light, and truth, by thy holy and true ministers
 Angelic and Spirituall: and at length, hearing of one, (a master of Arte, a preacher of thy word
 admitted) accownted as a good Seer,131
 and skryer of Spirituall apparitions, in Christalline
 receptacle, or in open ayre, by his practise procured: and trusting to frame him, by my ernest &
 faithfull prayers unto thee (my God) to some my help in my forsayd Studies: tyll, thow (o hevenly
 father) woldest by thy unserchable proveydence, send me some apter man or means thereto.
 Thereuppon trying him and using him, I fownd great diuersity betwene his private usuall manner, and
 intente of practise, and my pure, sincere, devowte, & faithfull prayer unto thee onely. And therfore
 often & fervently I exhorted him to the good; and reproved both him, and his ministers, with my no
 small daunger, but that thow (in manner unhard of) didst pitch thy holy tente to my defence, and
 cumfert, in conflict most terrible: as thow best knowest O God, and I willed him thereuppon to preach
 thy mercyes, & the verity of the kingly prophet his testimony, Castrametatur Angelus Domini, in
 Circuitu timentium eum.132
 Natura,133
 And out of Roger Bachon his boke written De mirabili potestate Artis et
 (where he writeth against the wycked Diuel callers) I noted unto him this sentence,
 Facilius (sine comparatione a Deo134
 utile reputare &c135
 impetrandum foret, vel a bonis spiritibus, quicquid homini
 which my cownsayle he promised me to follow, as thow art witnes, ô our true &
 almighty God. And as thy good spirituall creatures neyther had delight in the man, neyther wold so
 playnely & preistly give me theyr answers or informations by him, that he might be hable to perceyve
 the pith therof: So was he at length very unwilling to here him self rebuked for his nawghtynes, and to
 be barred from the Mysteries of thy truthes understanding; which were the onely things that I desyred,
 throwgh thy grace, o our most mercifull God. Therfore, as well for a Memoriall answerable to the
 premisses, as for the better warrant of my Such exercises to be made accownt of, hereafter: (leaving
 all unto thy infinite mercies, and unsearchable providence,) I haue thowght it not impertinent, to note
 downe, even in this place one of the last Actions, which I had with the forsayd preacher: when I made
 ernest & faythfull petition unto thee (o the true and Almighty God) for sending, unto my cumfort &
 eridition, (yf it were thy blessed will,) thy holy, & mighty Angel Annael: of whome and of all the
Hierarchies hevenly all prayer honor & thanks, be rendred unto thy diuine maistie: now & euer: &
 worlde without ende. Amen. Amen. Amen.
Anno 1581 Decembris 22. Mane
 136
 Mortlak
 Δ: After my fervent prayers made to God, for his mercifull cumfort and instruction, throwgh the
 ministery of his holy and myghty Angel, named Anael,137
 (yf it wer his diuine pleasure) I willed, the
 Skryer, (named Saul) to loke into my great Chrystaline Globe, yf God had sent his holy Angel Anael,
 or no: And Saul loking into my forsayd stone, (or Chrystall Globe) for to espie Anael, he saw there
 one,138
 which answered to that name. But being ernestly requested of me to tell the Truthe yf he were
 Anaël, An other did appere very bewtifull, with apparell yellow, glittering, like gold: and his hed had
 beames like ster beams, biasing, and spredding from it; his eyes fyrie. He wrote in the stone very
 much in hebrue letters, and the letters seamed all transparent gold: which, Saul was not able eyther
 presently to reade, that I might write after his voyce, neyther to imitate the letters in short tyme. A
 bright ster, did go up and down by him. There appeared allso a white dog, with a long hed.139
 And
 many other visions appeared, with this second: The first being voyded quite away. Thereuppon I
 sayd, as followeth,
 Δ: In nomine Jesu Christi, Quis tu es?140
 He answered to Saul his hearing.
 AN: Potestas omnis, in me sita est.141
 Δ: Quake?142
 AN: Bona, et mala.143
 Δ: Then appeared in the stone, these two letters M. G. I then axing him some questions, de
 Thesauro abscondito:144
 He answered,
 AN: Ne perturbes: Nam hæ sunt Nugse.145
 And withall appeared many dedd mens
 skulls, on his left hand. He sayd to me,
 AN: Ubi est potestas tua?146
 Δ: Cur quæris de potestate aliqua mea?147
 AN: Cur? Signifi, non mihi placet.148
 Δ: I, thereuppon, set by him, the stone in the frame:
 and sayd,
 Δ: An bonus aliquis Angelus, assignatus est huic speculo?149
AN: Etiam.150
 Δ: Quis?151
 AN: He answered, by the shew of these letters in the stone.
 Δ: Bonus ne ille Angelus, de quo in scripturis fit mentio?152
 AN: Maximè.153
 Δ: Fieri ne potest, quod ego eundem videam, et cum illo agam?154
 AN: Ita.155
 And therewith appeared this character—
 Δ: Quid per hoc, significare velis?156
 AN: Alterius Angeli character est.157
 Δ: Cur hîc, et nunc ostendis?158
 AN: Causam ob magnam.159
 Make an ende: It shalbe declared, but not by me.
 Δ: By whome then?
 AN: By him that is assigned to the stone: but not, tyll after the feast. And then thow must prepare
 thyself, to prayer and fasting.160
 In the Name of God, be Secret: and in all thy doings praying, tyll thow hast thy desyre: which shall
 not be far of. After Newyeres tyde, Deale, But not on the Sabaoth day. Pray contynually. When it shall
 pleas god, to stir thee up, Then procede. In the brightest day, When the Sonne shyneth: In the morning,
 fasting, begynne to pray. In the Sonne Set the stone. Deale both Kneeling, and sitting. I haue done for
 this tyme.
 My name is ANNAEL.
 I will speak ones more to thee: and than farewell: for thow shalt not haue me any more.
 Be not to hasty in wrath.
 Δ: Is this, that, you ment to speak?
 AN: I. Do good to all men. God hath sufficient for thee, and for all men.
 Farewell.
 Δ: Gloria patri et filio et spiritui sancto. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc et semper: et in sæcula
 sæculorum.161
 Amen.
Δ: Remember, that diuerse other particulars, mowght haue byn Noted of this dayes Action: but these
 may suffice: And yet it is not to be forgotten, that as he sayd his name was Annael (with a dubble n)
 so he allso confessed himself to be the same Annaël which is prepositus orbis veneris:162
 and allso
 Chief governor Generall of this great period, as I haue Noted in my boke of Famous and rich
 Discoueries.163
 Consider and Remember: That this Note, of the Action, (had with holy ANNAEL), is, of prince
 Befafes, (otherwise called Obelison) accownted as the Prolog of my first boke of mysticall exercises
 Anno 1582. Nouembris 20. Vide post.
 At Mortlak
 In nomine Jesv CHRISTI.164
 Amen.
Anno 1582. Martij die. 10. hora 11¼ Ante meridiem. Saterday
 Δ: One165
 Mr. Edward Talbot cam to my howse,166
 and he being willing and desyrous to see or shew
 some thing in spirituall practise, wold haue had me to haue done some thing therein. And I truely
 excused myself therein as not in the, vulgarly accownted Magik, neyther studied, or exercised: But
 confessed my self, long tyme to haue byn desyrous to haue help in my philosophicall studies throwgh
 the Cumpany and information of the blessed Angels of God. And thereuppon, I browght furth to him,
 my stone in the frame,
 (which was given me of a frende) and I sayd unto him, that I was credibly informed, that to it (after a
 sort) were answerable Aliqui Angeli boni:167
 And allso that I was ones willed by a Skryer, to call for
 the good Angel Anchor, to appere in that stone to my owne sight. And therfore I desyred him to call
 him: and (yf he wold) Anachor and Anilos likewise, accownted good Angels, for I was not prepared
 thereunto. &c. He than settled him self to the Action: and on his Knees att my desk (setting the stone
 before him) fell to prayer and entreaty &c. In the mean space, I, in my Oratory did pray, and make
 motion to god, and his good Creatures for the furdering of this Action. And within one quarter of an
 howre (or less) he had sight of one in the stone. but he still expected for two more: deeming this to be
 one of the three (namely Anchor Anachor Anilos). But I then cam to him, to the stone: And after some
 thanks to God, and Wellcome to the good Creature, used, I required to know his name. And he spake
 plainly, (to the hearing of E.T.) that his name is URIEL.
 Δ: Are you one of them (sayd I, John Dee) that are answerable, (uppon due observations
 performed) to this stone?
 URIEL: I am.
 Δ: Are there any more besyde you?
 UR: Michael and Raphaël. But, Michael est princeps in operibus nostris.168
 Δ: Ys my boke, of Soyga,169
 of any excellency?
 UR: Liber ille, erat Adæ in Paradiso reuelatus, per Angelos Dei bonos.170
 Δ: Will you give me any instructions, how I may read those Tables of Soyga?
 UR: I can - But solus Michaël illius libri est interpretator.171
 Δ: I was told, that after I could read that boke, I shold liue but two yeres and a half.
 UR: Thow shallt liue an Hundred and od yeres.172
Δ: What may I, or must I do, to haue the sight, and presence, of Michael, that blessed Angel?
 UR: Præssentias nostras postulate et invocate, sinceritate et humilitate. Et Anchor, Anachor, et
 Anilos, non sunt in hunc Lapidem invocandi.173
 Δ: Oh, my great and long desyre hath byn to be hable to read those Tables of Soyga.
 UR: Hæc maximè respiciunt Michaëlem. Michaël est Angelus, qui illuminat gressus tuos. Et hæc
 revelantur in virtute et veritate non vi.174
 Δ: Is there any speciall tyme, or howre to be observed, to deale for the enioying of Michael?
 UR: Omnis hora, est hora nobis.175
 Δ: After this, there appered176
 ensuing:
 in the stone a strange seale, or Characterismus of this fashion
 Δ: What is the intente, or use of this?
 UR:177
 Sigillum hoc in auro sculpendum, ad defensionem corporis, omni loco, tempore et
 occasione: et in pectus gestandum.178
 Δ: So we ceased, with thanks to god: and I mused much uppon this Action: and layd all up in
 mynde, and writing.
 Δ: Soli Deo Honor omnis, et gloria.179
 Amen.
The same Saterday after none. Hora. 5.
 Δ: After that Mr. E.T. had called Uriel, and I was come to the stone and had used a short speche of
 thanks giving to God: I then required some instruction for the purpose of Soyga.
 UR: Peace. You must use Michael.
 Δ: I know no meanes or order to use in the invocating of Michaël.180
 UR: He is to be invocated by certayn of the psalmes of Dauid, and prayers. The which psalmes, are
 nothing els, but a means unto the seat and Maiestie of God: whereby you gather with your selues due
 powre, to apply your natures to the holy Angels. I mean the psalmes, commonly called the Seven
 psalmes.181
 You must use pleasant sauours: with hand and hart: whereby you shall allure him and
 wynn him (thorowgh Gods fauour) to atteyn unto the thing, you haue long sowght for. There must be
 Coniunction of myndes in prayer, betwyxt you two, to God Contynually. Yt is the wyll of God, that
 you shold, ioinctly, haue the knowledge of his Angells to-gither. You had atteyned unto the sight of
 Michaël, but for the imperfection of Saul. Be of good Cumfort.
 Δ: The chayre cam into the stone againe: and I axed what it ment.
 UR: This is a seat of perfection: from the which, things shall be shewed unto thee, which thow
 hast long desyred.
 Δ: Then was there a square Table browght into the stone: and I demaunded, what that Table
 betokened.
 UR: A Mysterie, not yet to be known. These two, shall remayn in the stone, to the sight of all
 undefyled creatures.
 You must use a fowre square Table, two cubits square: Where uppon must be set Sigillum
 Dei,182
 which is allready perfected183
 in a boke of thyne: Blessed be God, in all his Mysteries, and
 Holy in all his works. This seal must not be loked on, without great reuerence and deuotion. This
 seale is to be made of perfect wax. I mean, wax, which is clean purified: we haue no respect of
 cullours. This seal must be 9 ynches in diameter: The rowndnes must be 27 ynches, and somwhat
 more. The Thicknes of it, must be of an ynche and half a quarter, and a figure of a crosse, must
 be on the back-side of it, made thus:
 The Table is to be made of swete wood: and to be of two Cubits high: with 4 feete: with 4 of the
former seales under the 4 feet.
 Δ: The fashion of the 4 feet, standing uppon the foresayd rownd seales, was shewed: so as the
 uttermost circle conteyning the letters, did seme to be clean without184
 the cumpas of the fete, equally
 rownd abowt the same fete. And these seales were shewed much lesser than the principall seal.185
 Under the Table did seme to be layd red sylk, two yardes square. And ouer the seal, did seme
 likewise red sylk to lye fowr square: somwhat broader then the Table, hanging down with 4 knops or
 tassells at the 4 corners thereof.
 Uppon this uppermost red silk, did seme to be set the stone with the frame: right ouer, and uppon
 the principall seal: sauing that the sayd sylk was betwene the one and the other.
 The Table was shewed to haue on the fowre sides of it, Characters
 186
 and names, these, that are
 here in a schedule annexed, in 4 diuerse rowes.
 UR: The characters and words on the sides of the square Table, are to be written with yellow,
 made of perfect oyle, used in the church.
 Δ: What oyle is that?
 UR: That oyle shalbe opened unto you. The oyle, is perfect prayers: of other oyle I haue no respect.
 We sanctifie, bycause we are holy: and you sanctify bycause of your holines.
 UR: There is a spirit, named Lundrumguffa using you who seketh your destruction, in the hatred of
 men, in the hurt of thy goods. Discharge him to morrow with Brymstone.187
 He haunteth thy howse,
 and seketh the destruction of thy dowghter. His pretence was to haue maymed thee in thy Sholder the
 last night, and long ago. Yf thow do not dischardg him to morrow, he will hurt, both thy wife and thy
 dowghter.188
 He is here now.189
 Giue him a generall discharge from your familie and howse. He will seke Sauls death, who is
 accursed.190
 Δ: I know no means, or art to do this by. For I did burn in flame of Brymstone, Maherion his name
 and Character, whan I fownd Saul priuilie dealing with him (which manner of wicked dealing I had
 oft forbydden him) and yet he cam after, and wold haue carryed Saul away quick: as Robert Hilton,
 George,191
 and other of my howse can testify.
 UR: The cursed will come to the cursed.
 Δ: I beseche you to discharge him: and to bynde him somwhere far of, as Raphael did (for Thobias
sake) with the wycked spirit Asmodeus.
 UR: But Thobias did his part.192
 Art is vayne, in respect of God his powre. Brymstone is a mean.
 Δ: Whan shall I do this?
 UR: To morrow at the tyme of prayers.
 Δ: Gloria Patri et filio et Spiritui Sancto,
 sicut &c.193
 Amen.
1582 Martij 11
Sonday. a Meridie hora .3. a circiter.194
 Δ: Uriel being called by E.T. there appeared one, clothed with a long robe, of purple: all spanged
 with gold, and on his hed, a garland, or wreath of gold: his eyes sparkling: of whome I axed Whether
 the characters noted for the Table, wer perfect: He answered,
 They are perfect:195
 Δ: Are you Uriel?
 Than presently196
 There is no question.
 cam in One, and threw the brave197
 spirit down by the sholders: and bet him
 mightyly with a whip: and toke all his robes, and apparell of him: and then he remayned all heary and
 owggly: and styll the spirit was beaten of him, who cam-in after him. And that spirit, which so bet
 him, sayd to the hearing of my Skryer,
 Lo, thus are the wycked skourged.
 Δ: Are you Uriel, who speaketh that?
 Uri: I am he. Write down and mark this: for it is worthy of the Noting.
 This was thy persecutor Lundrumguffa. I browght him hither to let thee see, how God hath ponished
 thy enemy.198
 Lo, thus, hath God delt for thee: Lo thus haue I delt for thee: Thank God.
 Δ: Blessed be his holy name; and extolled, world with out ende.
 E.T: He drew the wycked spirit away, by the leggs, and threw him
 into a great pitt,
 and washed his
 hands, as it were, with the sweat of his own hed: for he seamed to be all in a sweat.
 Δ: Here-uppon, my skryer saw Uriel go away: and he remayned out of sight a little while. Then he
 cam-in agayn: and an other with him: and iointly these two said to gither, Glorifie God for euer
 .
 And than Uriel did stand behinde: and the other did set down in the chayre, with a sworde in his
 right hand: all his hed glystring199
 like the sonne. The heare of his hed was long. He had wings: and
 all his lower parts seamed to be with feathers. He had a roab ouer his body: and a great light in his
 left hand. He sayd,
 Michaël: We are blessed from the begynning: and blessed be the name of God for euer.
 Δ: My skryer saw an innumerable Cumpany of Angels abowt him: And Uriel did lean on the
 square Table by. He that sat in the chayre (whom we take to be Michaël) sayd Than,
 Go forward: God hath blessed thee.
 I will be thy Guyde.
 Thow shallt atteyne unto thy serching.
 The World begynnes with thy doings.
 Prayse God.
 The Angels under my powre, shall be at thy commaundement. Lo, I will do thus much for thee.
 Lo, God will do thus much for thee.
 Thow shalt see me: and I will be seen of thee.
 And I will direct thy liuing and conversation.
Those that sowght thy life,200
 are vanished away.
 Put up thy pen.
 Δ: So he departed.
 Δ: Gloria, laus, honor, virtus et Imperium Deo immortali, invisibili, et Omnipotenti, in sæcula
 sæculorum.201
 Amen.
Martij 14. Wensday. mane circa horam 9ã.
 Δ: Being desirous to procede in this matter, by consent, we bent our selues to the Action. And after
 that E.T.
 had called Uriel and saw him, I cam to the desk from my oratorie. There did contynually
 appeare, the chayre and the Table. I than being affrayde that any other shold come into the stone,
 instead of Uriel, did ernestly require the spirituall creature appearing, to shew who he was, and what
 was his name: At length he answered, and sayde to the hearing of E.T.,
 Uriel is my name, with diuerse called Nariel.202
 Stay.
 Δ: Then he went away, for a while: and cam agayn, and sayd thus,
 Ur: The strength of God, is allwayes with thee. Dost thow know, what thow writest?
 Δ: In two senses, I may understand it: eyther that the good Angel Gabriel203
 is allwayes with me,
 thowgh invisibly: or els, that the strength, and mighty hand of God, allwayes is my defense.
 Ur: Fortitudo Dei, tecum semper est.204
 Δ: He went away agayn, and cam agayn, following or wayting uppon an other: and before that
 other, was a man hauing his hed all couered with blak. Then he that cam so in the middle, did sit
 down in the chayre, and spake this worde following:
 Mi: Note.
 Δ: This was Michael, with his sword in his right hand. Then cam Uriel to the man (hauing his hed
 all hyd, as it were in a blak hode) and toke-of that blak hode: and then lifted-up the Table cloth. He
 looked under it, and put it down againe: and lifted it up again. The man stode still before Michael.
 Then Michael rose; and toke-of all the mans clothes, and left him, as it were, onely in his shirt. Then
 Uriel toke a little rownd Tablet, as it were, of the bignes of a sixpence, hauing two letters in it, thus:
 and gaue it to Michaël. Uriel lifted up the Table cloth: and, from thence, seamed to take apparaile,
 and put on the man. It semed to be sylk: and very full of wrynkles, or plights. And the man kneeled,
 and held-up his hands. Uriel toke like a lawrell bush, and set uppon the mans hed. And than the man
 kneeled before Michaël. Michaël toke the rownd thing, with the letters: and gaue it the man to eat: and
 he did eat it.
 Ur: Lo, things are covered.
 Δ: Then he couered the Table and pluckt the cloth over it, down to the grownd, on euery side. The
 man rose up: And Michaël dubbed him on the hed with his sworde. Then the man stode-up. Then the
 man turned his face toward E.T
 . the skryer: and the man did resemble me (John Dee) in cowntenance.
 And then he turned to Michaël agayn. Michael wrote uppon the mans back, thus,
 ANGELVS TVÆ PROFESSIONIS.205
Δ: Then E.T. asked me, yf there were such Angels of a mans Profession: and I answered yea; as in
 Agrippa206
 and other, is declared.
 Mi: Leaue your folly: Hold thy peace. Haue you not red, that they that cleaue unto God, are made
 like unto him.
 Δ: Yes, forsoth.
 Mic: Thow camst hither to lern, and not to dispute. Laudate Dominum in operibus suis.207
 Δ: The man kneled down, and so went out of sight.
 Mi: He hath eaten strength against trubble: He hath eaten nothing: and in eating, he hath eaten all
 things. The name208
 NA, be praysed in trubbles.
 Δ: Now Michael thrust out his right arme, with the sword: and bad the skryer to loke. Then
 his sword did seame to cleaue in two: and a great fyre, flamed out of it, vehemently. Then he
 toke a ring out of the flame of his sworde: and gaue it, to Uriel: and sayd, thus:
 Mic: The strength of God, is unspeakable. Praysed be god for euer and euer.
 Δ: Then Uriel did make cursy unto him.
 Mi: After this sort, must thy ring be: Note it.
 Δ: Then he rose, or disapeared, out of the chayre, and by and by, cam again, and sayde, as
 followeth.
 Mi: I will reveale thee this ring: which was never revealed since the death of Salomon: with
 whom I was present. I was present with him in strength, and mercy. Lo, this it is. This is it,
 wherewith all Miracles, and diuine works and wonders were wrowght by Salomon: This is it,
 which I haue revealed unto thee. This is it, which Philosophie dreameth of. This is it, which the
 Angels skarse know. This is it, and blessed be his Name: yea, his Name be blessed for euer.
 Δ: Then he layd the Ring down uppon the Table: and sayd,
 Note.
 Δ: It shewed to be a Ring of Gold: with a seale graued in it: and had a rownd thing in the myddle of
 the seale and a thing like a V, throwgh the top of the circle: and an L, in the bottome: and a barr
 ————cleane throwgh it: And had these fowre letters in it, PELE.209
 After that, he threw the ring on the borde, or Table: and it semed to fall throwgh the Table:
 and then he sayde, thus,
 Mi: So shall it do, at thy commaundement.
 Without this, thow shalt do nothing.
 210
 Blessed be his name, that cumpasseth all things:
 Wonders are in him, and his Name is WONDERFVLL
 : His Name worketh wonders from
 generation, to generation.
Δ: Then he went away: and cam-in agayn by and by.
 Mi: Note.
 Δ: Then he browght-in the Seale, which he shewed the other day: and opened his sworde, and
 bad the skryer, reade, and he red, EMETH.211
 Then the sword closed up agayn: and he sayde,
 Mi: This I do open unto thee, bycause thow mervayledst at SIGILLVM DEI. This is the Name
 of the Seale: Which be blessed for euer. This is the seale self. This is Holy: This is pure: This is
 for euer. Amen.
 Δ: Then the seale vanished away. And I sayd to my frende (the Skryer) In dede, this other day, I
 considered diuerse fashions of the seal: and I fownd them much differing, one from an other: and
 therfore I had nede to know, which of them I shall imitate: or how to make one perfect of them all.
 Mi: Dowt not for the making of it: for God hath perfyted all things. Ask not the cause of my
 absence, nor of my apparell: for that Mysterie, is known to God. I haue no cloathing, as thow thy self
 shalt see.
 I am a Spirit of Truth, and Vertue.212
 Yea you shall see me in Powre, and I will viset you in
 HOPE. Bless you the Lorde, and follow his wayes, for euer.
 Δ: Then he went away: and Uriel followed him. And then I sayde to my skryer: It were good, we
 had euer some watch-word, when we shold not loke for any more matter at theyr hands, euery tyme of
 theyr visitting of us. Whereuppon, (unlooked-for, of us,) he spake agayn.
 Mi: We lead tyme, Tyme leadeth not us:
 Put up thy pen.
 The Name of God, be blessed for euer.
 Δ: Then they lifted up theyr hands to heuenward (which heven, appeared allso in the stone) and
 turned toward us, and sayd,
 Valete.213
 Δ: So they departed: and at theyr going, the chayr, and the Table, in the stone, did seme to shake.
 Δ: Soli Deo omnis honor Laus et Gloria.214
 Amen.
Martij 15. Thursday. Hora 1¼ a meridie.
 Δ: After E.T.
 his calling into the stone, appeared a tall man, with a sceptre (very great) of gold,
 glittring. His body all red: and out of his hed, did shote out beames of light, like the sonne beames.
 Δ: Being desirous, to know who he was, and his name, I requested him ernestly thereto. But he
 answered, as followeth,
 Invocate nomen Domini, et agnoscetis eum.215
 Δ: Then I prayed the psalme, Deus misereatur nostri, et benedicat nobis &c.216
 I am mighty.
 Δ: Bycause he delayed to declare his name, E.T.
 After that, he sayd,
 the skryer did require him, in the name of God the
 father, Jesus Christ his sonne, and of the holy ghost, to express his name: and he answered in speche.
 So I will by and by.
 Δ: Then he seamed to take from his hed little bright sparcks, like little candells endes: and to stick
 them abowt the chayre: and he went rownd abowt the chayre: and than he spake, as followeth,
 I am mighty, and working wonders: I am SALAMIAN.217
 I rule in the hevens, and beare sway
 uppon erth in his name, who be blessed for euer. Thow doost dowt at me. I am the servant of God, in
 his light: I serve him. I say, I serve him, with feare and reverence. My name is SALAMIAN: Mighty
 in the Sonne, worker of wordly actions, as well internall, as externall: known unto God: whose name
 I know, and bless for euer.
 Δ: Then appeared a big flame of fyre by him in the ayre.
 Sal: Thow knowest not, or thow wilt not know, that Mamon, with his servants, are present abowt
 thee: whose presence doth hinder the presence of the vertues Adonay our comming. Blessed be God,
 in the highest.
 Amen.
 Δ: He toke the forsaide flame of fyre, and flung it up unto the heven ward.
 Sal: Mamon is a king whome God hateth: whose sect, contynually tempt, provoke and stir-up
 wickednes, against the Lord, and against his annoynted. But he dyeth: blessed be God for euer. Driue
 him away.
 Δ: It is incomparably more easy for you to do. And as for my parte, I fele neyther in body, nor
 sowle, any token of his presence or working. Thereuppon he caused the whole chamber (which we
 were in) to appere very playnely in the stone: and so there shewed a great cumpany of wycked spirits
 to be in the chamber: and among them, One, most horrible and grisely thretting,218
 our heds: and skorning and gnashing at us.
 Sala: God determines his mysteries, by Arte and vertue.
 and approaching to
 Δ: Then he willed me very egerly, to drive them away. And I prayed fervently. And there seamed
 One to come into the stone, which had very long armes: and he draue them away courragiously: And
 so they were driuen away. After that presently, cam one into the stone, all white. Salamian reached
 this white one a Cup. The white man held-up the Cup: and sayd, as followeth,
 Lo, this is my name.
 God shall bless you. Fear not: your faithfullness provoketh me to tell my name, and this it is:
(putting furth the Cup again) for, I am called Medicina Dei.219
 I will shew thee, and I will shew you,
 the Angel of your Direction, which is called OCH.220
 Δ: This name he spake: he shewed it allso on the Table (before him) written.
 Raph: He is mighty in the sonne beames: He shall profit thee hereafter.
 Δ: Then cam in an other, and sat down in the chayre: and he sayde, as followeth,
 The strength of God liueth: and God raigneth for euer. I am Fortitudo Dei.
 Δ: Why, then, you are Gabriel: and I toke you hitherto to be Michaël. How shall I then amend my
 boke, in respect of your name, allwayes before, written Michael?
 For.Dei:
 What thow hast written, that hast thow written: and it is true. Write down this name.
 POLIPOS.221
 Dost thow understand it?
 Δ: No, God knoweth.
 For.Dei:
 When that day commeth, I will speak with thee: yf
 commaunded thee.
 222
 thow
 observe that which I haue
 As truely, as I was with SALOMON, so truely will I be with thee.
 Δ: Then cam in an other, whom we toke to be Uriel: for he went allso, as he was wont, and leaned
 at the Table.
 For.Dei:
 Search for wisdome and lerning, and the lord will deliuer it unto you.
 Δ: I wold to god, I knew your name truely, or what peculier letter I might set for you, to Note your
 words and Actions by.
 For.Dei:
 Name I haue none, but by my office. SALAMIAN cam not hither, but by me. He is a
 mighty Prince, governing the hevens, under my powre. This is sufficient for thy Instruction. I was with
 Salomon, in all his works and wonders: and so was this, whome God had appointed unto him. The
 Diuines know his name: and he is not hidden from the face of the erth: His name is written in the boke
 which lyeth in the Wyndow.
 Δ: Do you mean Agrippa his boke? And is it there expressed by the name SALAMIAN?223
 For.Dei: I haue sayde.
 Δ: What order will you appoint unto us two, in respect of our two beings to-gither? My frende
 here, may haue other intents and purposes of his affayres, then will serve me, for his ayde hauing in
 these Actions.
 For.Dei:
 Joyne in prayers. For God hath blessed you: Dowt not.
 Consider these mysteries.
 Δ: Then they in the stone used talk to gither: but not well to be discerned of the eare of E.T.
 At length F.D.
 talked very much, and spedily to E.T.
 and disclosed unto him (which he expressed
 not to me, at the stone but afterward) all the manner of the practise, and the Circumstance abowt the
 Action intended, with the Gold lamin, the ring, the seales &c. And after I had spoken somwhat, in
 requesting him, to shew me the manner, How I shold artificially prepare euery thing spoken of, he
 sayd,
 F.D:
 [. . . Use me, in the Name of God, for all occasions.224
 Blessed
 225
 be God,
 who revealeth all
 Mysteries,
 &c
 . . .]
 . I am strength
 in nede. And Lo, here is
 Medicine for the sore. We bless the Lord: We gouern the erth, by the societie of Gabriel: whose
powre, is with us: but he not here. &c.
 Use Patience.
 Ur: I liued with Esdras: I liued in him, in the lord, who liueth for euer.226
 Raph: I liued with Tobie: Tobie the yonger.227
 Δ: This was the white creature, that spake this.
 F.D:
 We liue in the Lorde: who be praysed for euer.
 Δ: I stode silent a good while.
 FD:
 What wilt thow?
 Δ: I did attend, what you wold say.
 F.D:
 I haue sayd.
 Δ: I haue byn long at this tyme, in my dealing with you. I trust, I do not offend you therewith. But,
 for my parte, I could finde in my hart to contynue whole dayes and nights in this manner of doing: euen
 tyll my body shold be ready to synk down for wearines, before I wold giue ouer. But I feare, I haue
 caused wearines to my frende here.
 F.D:
 In vertue is no wearines.
 Δ: Now he stode up, out of his chayr: and he, and they all, ioinctly blessed us, stretching theyr
 hands toward us, Crossingly. And so they went away. The Table and the chayre remayned and the
 glyttring sparckles, or drops of streaming little lightes were of the chayre immediately.
 Δ: Glorie, thanks, and honor be unto the Almighty Trinitie.
 Amen.228
[Mysteriorum Liber Secundus]
 . . . mysteryes,229
 . . . 
. . . ow toward a thing, r . . . 
. . . howse is hollow, it is empty and voyde . . . 
. . . ants: The God of heuen and erth, will send into . . .
 NOTE. We bring tydings of light
 * . The Lord is owr . . . you and we prayse to gither. His name
 be praysed for ever. O . . . in his Mysteries: O holy and eternall God.
 Δ: He bowed down to the Chayre and then to the table, and sayd, Benedictus qui venit in,230
 (and
 there stayed a little) and sayd agayn, Benedictus qui venit in, nomine Domini.231
 Δ: Than cam in Michael, with a sword in his hand, as he was wont: and I sayd unto him, are you
 Michael
 .232
 ?
 Mich: Dowt not: I am he which reioyce in him that reioyceth in the Fortitude and strength of
 God
 Δ: Is this Forme, for the Great Seale perfect?
 Mi: The forme is true and perfect. Thow shalt sweare by the liuing God, the strength of his Mercy
 ,
 and his Medicinall vertue, powred into mans sowle neuer to disclose
 Δ: Yf No man, by no means, shall perceyue any thing herof, by me
 well.
 Mi: Nothing is cut from the Church of God
 these Mysteries.233
 , I wold think that I shold not do
 . We in his Saincts are blessed for euer.
 We separate thee, from
 fyled and wycked persons
 : We move thee to God.
 Δ: I vow, as you require: God be my help, and Gwyde, now and euer, amen.
 MIC: This is a Mystery, skarse worthy for
 us ourselues
 then, so Contented?
 , to know, muche lesse to Reueale
 Δ: I am: God be my strength.
 Mic: Blessed art thow among the Saincts: And blessed are you both.
 I will pluck thee, from among the wycked [he spake to my skryer.]234
 . Art thow,
 Thow Commyttest Idolatry.
 But take hede of Temptation: The Lord hath blessed thee. This is a Mystery.
 Dee, what woldest thow haue?
 Δ: Recte sapere et Intelligere &c.235
 Mic: Thy Desyre is graunted thee. Use . . .
 . . . with236
 . . . 
. . . they are corrupted . . . 
[Michael: -]:237
 . . . they haue byn used to the wycked. Ther . . .
 I will shew thee in the mighty hand and strength
 are: The true Circle of his
 of God, [what] his Mysteries
 æternitie Comprehending all vertue: The whole and Sacred Trinitie.
 Oh, holy be he: Oh, holy be he: Oh, holy be he.
 Uriel answered, Amen.
 Mic: Now what wilt thow? Δ: I wold full fayne procede according to the matter in hand.
 Mic: Diuide the owtward circle into 40 æquall partes: whose greatest numbers are fowre. See
 thow do it presently.
 Δ: I did so. Diuiding it first into fowre: and then every of them into ten. He called Semiel, and
 one cam in and kneled down: and great fyre cam out of his mowth.238
 Michael sayde, To him, are the Mysteries of these Tables
 known.
 Michael sayde, Semiel (agayn) and by and by, he239
 said, O God thow hast sayd and thow
 liuest for euer. Do not think here I speake to him. Δ: He spake that to us, least we might dowte of his
 last speches, as being spoken to Semiel: which he directed to the æternall god and not to Semiel.
 Semiel stode up, and flaming fire cam out of his mowth: and than he sayd, as followeth,
 Sem: Mighty Lord, what woldest thow with the Tables?
 Mic: It is the will of God, Thow fatche them hither.
 Sem: I am his Tables
 .
 Behold these are his Tables. Lo where they are.
 Δ: There cam-in 40 white Creatures
 , all in white Sylk long robes and they like
 all they fallyng on theyr knees sayd,
 Thow onely art Holy among the highest. O God, Thy
 Name
 ,240
 chyldern
 : and
 be blessed for euer.
 Δ: Michael stode up out of his chayre, and by and by, all his leggs semed to be like two great
 pillers of brass:241
 and he as high as half way to the heven. And by and by, his sword was all on
 fyre and he stroke, or drew his sworde ouer all theyr 40 heds. The Erth quaked: and the 40 fell
 down: and Michael called Semiael, with a thundring voyce, and sayd,
 Declare the Mysteries of the Liuing God, our God, of one that liueth for euer.
 Sem: I am redy. Δ: Michael stroke ouer them, with his sword agayne: and they all fell down,
 and Uriel allso on his knees. And commonly at the striking with his sword, flamyng fier like
 lightening did flash with all.
 Mi: Note: here is a Mysterie.
 Δ: Then stept furth, one of the 40, from the rest, and opened his brest which was couered
 with Sylk, and there appeared a great T all of Gold.242
 Mi: Note the Number. ∆: Ouer the T, stode the figure of 4, after this manner:
 The 40, all, cryed, Yt liueth and Multiplyeth for euer: blessed be his
 name
 .243
∆: That creature did shut up his bosome, and vanished away, like unto a fyre.
 Mi: Place that, in the first place. It is the name of the Lorde.244
 ∆: Than there seamed a great clap of thunder to be. Then stepped (before the rest) one other of
 the 40, and kneled as the other did before. And a voyce was herd saying, Prayse God, for his name is
 reuerent.
 Michael sayd to me, say after me thus,
 Deus Deus Deus noster, benedictus es nunc et semper: Amen.
 Deus Deus Deus noster, benedictus es nunc et semper: Amen.
 Deus Deus Deus noster, benedictus es nunc et semper: 245 Amen.
 
∆: Then this Creature opened his breast, and fyre cam oute of the stone as before and a great
 romayne G appeared.246
 Mi: Write with reuerence, These Mysteries are wunderfull, the Number of his name, and
 knowledge: Lo, this it is, 9. Behold, it is but one, and it is Marveylous.
 ∆: Then this Creature vanished away . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
 Mi: The Seale of Gods Mercy: blessed be thy name.
 ∆: It semed to rayne, as thowgh it had rayned fyre from heuen. Then one other of the 40 was
 browght furth: The rest all fell down and sayd, Lo, thus is God known.
 Then he opened his brest, and there appered an n, (not of so big proportion as the other), with the
 number of 7 over it.248
 Mi: Multiplicatum est Nomen tuum in terra.249
 ∆: Then that man vanished away as it were in a golden smoke.
 Mi: Thow must not write these things, but with great devotion. He Liueth. ∆: Then cam an other
 furth. Then all falling down sayde, Vidimus Gloriam tuam Domine.250 They were prostrate on theyr
 faces. Then this Creature opened his breast and he had there a Tablet all of Gold (as it were) and
 there appered a small t uppon it: and the figure of 9 under this letter t.251
 Mi: Mark it, for this is a Mysterye. ∆: Then that Shewer (of the 40) seamed to fly up into the ayre,
 like as it were a white garment.
 Mi: Illius Gloria sit nobiscum.252 ∆: All sayd, amen: and fell down.
 ∆: Then stode up an other, and opened his bosom, and shewed on his brest bare (being like syluer)
 a small h;253 and he pointed to it, and ouer it was the number of 22.
 Mi: Et est numerus virtutis benedictus. Videte Angelos Lucis.254 ∆: This shewer went away like a
 white Cok flying up.
 ∆: There cam an other in, and sayd,
 Et sum Finis et non est mihi Numerus. Sum Numerus in numero Et omnis Numerus est mihi
 Numerus. Videte.255
 ∆: There appeared a small n256 on his skyn, being all spotted with Gold. Then he went away like
 three fyres, red flaming, and coming to gather agayn in the myddst of the firmament.
 ∆: You must Note that in the stone the whole world in a manner did seme to appere, heuen, and
 erth, &c.
 Mi: (∆ he cryed with a lowde voyce,) Et est vita in cælis.257
 ∆: Then stepped furth one and sayd, Et ego viuo cum bene viuentibus, 258 and withall he kneeled
down: and Michael stepped furth and toke of his veale on his brest and he made Cursy and stode up.
 Mi: Viuamus Halleluyah. O Sanctum Nomen.259
 ∆: All fell down on theyr faces, and Michael stroke ouer them with his sword and a great flash of
 fyre: And this man his brest seemed open, that his hart appeared bleading, and therein the letter m,260
 and 6, over it thus 
Mic: Benedictus est Numerus Agni.261
 ∆: Hereuppon They all fell down.
 Mi: Orate invicem.262 ∆: Hereuppon we prayed a psalme; my skryer saying one verse, and I the
 other &c.
 Mi: Omnia data sunt a Deo.263 ∆: Then cam one in, hauing a rownd Tablet in his forhed and a little
 o264 in his forhed: and 22 ouer it.
 Mi: Et non est finis in illo.
 Benedictus es tu Deus.265 ∆: And then that shewer vanished away: He flew up, like a rownd
 raynbow knyt togither at the endes.
 
Mi: Angeli a nomine tuo procident Domine.
 Tu es primus O Halleluyah.266
 ∆: One stode up and the rest fell down, and out of his mowth that stode, cam a sworde: and the
 point, a Triangle, and in the myddest of it a small a267 thus , of pure gold, grauen very depe: Et
 Numerus tuus viuit in cæteris,268 sayd this shewer. The number was  20269 over the a. This shewer
 went away with great lightening covering all the world.
 Mi: Nomen illius est nobiscum.270 ∆: He stroke agayne with his sword ouer them. Then stode one
 up: who, uppon his garment had an n: and he turned abowt: and on his back were very many (ens)
 n.271
 Mi: Creasti tu Domine Angelos tuos ad Gloriam tuam.272 ∆: Ouer the ‘n’ was the number of 14,
 ouer that n (I meane) which was onely on his brest.
 Mi: Et te primus Creauit Deus.273 Δ: Then the shewer flew up like a star. And an other cam in, all
 his cloth being plucked up: and so seamed naked: He hath a little ‘a’.274 This ‘a’ did go rownd abowt
 him, begynning at his feete: and so spirally upward: and he seemed to be all Clay. Ouer the ‘a’ was
 the number 6.
 Mi: Et Creata sunt et pereunt in Nomine tuo.275 Δ: And therwith this shewer fell down all into dust
 on the Earth: and his white garment flew up like a white smoke: and allso a white thing did fly out of
 his body.276
 Surgit Innocentia ad faciem Dei.277
 Δ: Michael did ouer them agayn with his sworde, and it seemed to lighten. He began to speak, and
 he stopped suddenly, and the fyre flew from his mowth.
Mi: Innocentium Nomina, et sanguinem vidisti Domine a Terra
 , et Iustus es in operibus tuis.278
 Δ:
 Then cam one in, with a garment all bluddy
 . He was like a chylde, he had a ball in his hand of
 perfume which smoked: and he hath uppon his forhed a little ‘h’
 Michael sayd, Numerus tuus est infinitus, et erit finis rerum.280
 .279
 He bowed to Michaël: and
 Δ: This shewer seemed to powre him
 self awaye like a flud of
 blud: and his garment flew upward
 .
 Mi: Non est illi numerus. Omnia pereunt a facie Dei,
 et a facie Terræ.281
 Δ: Then stepped one furth, like a water running rownd abowt him, and he cryeth miserably, O
 benedictum Nomen tuum Domine. Numerus perijt cum illis.282
 Δ: A little ‘o
 ’ with 18 ouer it,
 appered.283
 Δ: This shewer seemed to vanish away, and to cause a great water remayn ouer all.
 Mi: L
 ux manet in tenebris. Gloriosum est Nomen tuum.284
 Δ: Then stept one furth from the rest, who fell down, as theyr manner was.
 Δ: Note: All the Cumpanies of these 40, stode five to gither, and five to gither, and so in eight
 Cumpanyes; each, of fiue.
 Δ: This was a very white one: The upper partes of his throate, seemed open and there seemed to
 cum out of it fyre, in very many and diuerse cullours.
 He sayd, Trinus
 sum.285
 Mi: Benedictum sit nomen El
 .286
 Δ: Than in the myddle of the fyres or smoke semed an ‘1
 ouer the ‘1’ the number 26.
 ’287
 Δ: This shewer seemed to haue three mens heds and
 thrise placed, on a bluddy cross, and
 to vanish away in a myst with a thunder.
 Mi: L
 abia mea laudant Dominum.288
 Δ: Then cam a very fayre yong one in with long heare hanging on her (or his) sholders: and on her
 belly appered a great scotcheon;289
 it.
 Mi: Et hic est El:290
 to hir, or him, Michael gaue a flame of fyre: and she, or he, did eat
 and so appeared a little ‘1’ on the scotcheon, and it waxed bigger and bigger:
 and a fyre did seeme to go rownd abowt it.
 Mi: Benedicta sit æ
 tas tua:291
 Δ: And there appeared ‘30’ under the 1.
 Δ: There cam a great many of little fyers and did seeme to eleuate this yong woman (or child) out
of sight.
 Michael stroke his sword ouer them agayn, and sayd,
 N
 atus est illa Lux.
 Ille est Lux noster.292
 Δ: Then stept out an other and opened his white silk garment uppermost: and under it, he seemed to
 be sowed up in a white silk cloth. He had in his forhed an ‘n’
 hand an ‘n’.
 Mi: Numerus tuus est benedictus.294
 293
 in his brest an ‘n’ and in his right
 Δ: They all fell down, saying, N
 umerus tuus est N
 obiscum:
 Nec adhuc nouimus finem illius Venies cum numero tuo
 O unus in æternum.295
 Δ: And they fell all down agayn. This shewer departed clyming up into the ayre
 clymed on a ladder.
 Mi: Linguis suis cognouerunt eum.296
 Δ: All sayd, Benedictus est qui sic et sic est,297
 throwing up into the ayre
 , as if he had
 thre cornerd trenchers298
 of this fashion all of Gold. The one side of the trenchers was thus marked, and the other side had
 nothing on.
 Δ: Then stept one oute: and fyre cam out and in of his mowth. He kneeled, the rest fell down. This
 seemed a transparent body, and he had in his eyes a small 1:
 299
 Mi: Note this, under. I meane the figure 8. Thus, 
Δ: All sayd, Et es verus in operibus tuis:300
 and in his forhed the figure of 8.
 and so he vanished away in a flame of fyre.
 Mi: Gaudete omnes populi eius, gaudete omnes populi eius, ab hinc Gaudete.301
 Amen.
 Δ: One stept furth saying, Incipit virtus nostra,
 302
 Δ: All sayd,
 he being covered under his robe, all with armor:
 and hath a great G303
 on his armor and the figure of ‘7’ ouer it. He went 
behynde
 Michael
 and so
 vanished away.304
 Mi: Recte viuite omnes Sancti eius.305
 Δ: One stept furth: and opening his brest, there appered a boke, and turning ouer the leaves there
 appeared nothing but a little ‘r’306
 awaye.
 Mi: H
 and 13 over it. He went behinde
 the Chayre and so vanished
 ic est Angelus Eccliæ meæ, qui doceat Ille viam meam.307
 Δ: There stept oute a playn man, and under his garment a gyrdel, and under his gyrdle a Rod: and in
308
 uppon his sworde
 his hand he had a Sworde, and in his mowth a flame of fyre: he had a great H
 and under it 22. He went behynde
 the chayre &c. Michael standing up still uppon his leggs, like
 pillers of brass.
 Δ: I axed him yf I shold not cease now, by reason of the folk tarying for us to come to supper.
 Mic: Lay away the world. Contynue your work: Coniunxit
 spiritum mentibus illorum.309
 Δ: Then stept out one, hauing under his garment a little Chest, and therein a mans hart raw: and the
 hart was thus with two letters, one on the one side ‘o’ and on the other a ‘g’.310
 [Δ: As in scotcheons of armes, where the man and his wifes armes ar ioyned perpale, as the heraulds
 term it.] This shewer shut up the chest and went his way.
 Mi: Numerus illius est sine numero.311
 Δ: Then cam in an other, saying,
 Tempus est. Deum vestrum agnoscite.312
 Δ: This shewer his armes reached down to his feete:
 ‘t’313
 he shewed furth his right hand and in it a little
 and 11 under it.
 Mi: Stay; place this, in the second place. This went away.
 Mi: Y
 mago tua, (mors,) est amara.314
 Δ: Then cam one in, with a big belly, and fat cheekes: an half sword perced his hart, and a little
 ‘y’315
 written on it. Iustus est malis deus noster. 316
 Mi: Place it in the former place.
 Mi: O
 pera fidelium, Delectatio mea.317
 Δ: The number of 15 under it.
 [Δ: Then cam one in.] Hic est Deus noster.318
 the letter of o
 Mi: E
 on his naked brest, and the figure of 8 under it. He went away.
 cce, Iniquitas regnat in domo mea.319
 Δ: Then stept one oute very lean, all his body full of little e
 ,320
 He shewed
 and under euery one of them, 21. He
 went away behynde
 Mi: B
 the chayre.
 estia deuoravit populum meum, peribit autem in æternum.321
 Δ: Then stept out one in bluddy apparell, all his body full of serpents heds and a b
 322
 and the number of 10 ouer it. He went away.
 Mi: Iniquitas A
 on his forhed,
 bundat in templo meo, et sancti viuunt cum Iniquis.323
 Δ: One very lean, hunger sterued cam out, an A on his brest, and, 11 over it, and so went away.
 Δ: There cam in another.
 324
 Mi: Iniqua est Terra malitijs suis.325
 Δ: Then cam in one who drew out a bluddy sworde on his brest a great romayn I, and 15 over it.
 He went his way.
Mi: Angeli eius ministrauerunt sanctis.326
 Δ: Then stept one oute with a Target and a little a on it,
 and ouer it the number of 8.327
 Mi: R
 He went away.
 egnabit Iniquitas pro tempore.328
 Δ: They all cryed, Halleluyah.
 Δ: Then stept one furth with a golden crown, and a great arming sworde: his clothing all of gold,
 with a letter ‘r’ on his sword and 16 ouer
 it, and so he went away.
 Mi: N
 ulla regnat virtus super terram.329
 Δ: Then stept one oute, hauing all his body under his white
 sylken habit (as they all, had) very braue after the fashion of those dayes, with great ruffs, cut hose, a
 great bellyed dubblet, a veluet hat on his hed, with a feather: and he advanced him self braggingly: He
 had burnt into his forhed a little n: and Michael sayd, Non est numerus illius in Cælis.330
 awaye.
 Mi: A
 ntiquus serpens extulit caput suum deuorans Innocentes.331
 Δ: He went
 Halleluyah.
 Δ: Then cam one who put of his white habit: and he toke a sword, and smote up into the ayre, and it
 thundred: and he had a seal (suddenly there) very gorgeous of gold and precious stones: he sayd,
 Regnum meum. Quis Contradicet?332
 Δ: He hath proceding out of his mowth, many little (enns,) n, and on his forhed, a great A.
 Mi: Non quòd est A, sed quod contradicit A.
 Nec portio, nec numerus eius invenitur in cælo.
 Habet autem Numerum terrestrem
 Mysterium.333
 Δ: He shewed three figures of ‘6’ set in triangle thus, 6 6 6
 Mi: Vobis est Mysterium hoc, posterius reuelandum.334
 Δ: And there cam a fyre and consumed him, and his chayre away, suddenly.
 Mi: Perturbatur terra iniquitate sua.335
 This shewer, his garments, white, under: his face as brass: his body grevous with leprosy:
 hauing uppon his brest an O, with the number of 10 under it: and so departed.336
 Mi: Surgite O Ministri Dei: Surgite (inquam) Pugnate: Nomen Dei est æternum.337
 Δ: Then cam two oute to gither: they had two edged swordes in theyr hands, and fyre cam oute of
 theyr mowthes. One had a G, and 5 ouer it, the ot
 her had...
 [Δ: We fell to prayer, whereuppon Michael blessed us.]
 The o
 ther had an h
 Mi: O
 on his sword, and 14 under it: and so they went away.
 mnis terra tremet ad vocem tubæ illius.338
 Δ: One stept out, and under his habit had a trumpet. He put it to his mowth, and blew it not. On his
 forhed a little ‘o’
 and 17 under it. He went awaye.
 Mi: S
 erua Deus populum tuum, Serua Deus populum tuum Israel, Serua (inquam) Deus populum
 tuum Israel.339
 Δ: He cryed this, alowde.
 Δ: One appeared with a fyry sword, all bluddy, , his vesture all bluddy, and
 he had s
 .340
 Est numerus in numero.341
 Δ: He went away.
 Δ: I understand it to be a letter, and the number 5 also.
Δ: He had an a
 on his forhed and the Number 5 under it.
 Mi: So it is.
 Δ: There cam one in with diuerse owgly faces, and all his body skabbed.
 Mi: Nunc sunt Dies tribulationis:342
 Mi: Hic est Numerus predictus.343
 Mi: Audite, consummatum est.344
 grauen, a
 . This had a great pot of water in his hand and uppon the pot,
 with 5 under it. He departed in fyre.345
 Mi: A
 ngele preparato Tubam tuam.346
 A: Then cam one oute with a Trumpet. ----- Venite Tempus.347
 Δ: He offered to blow, but blew it not. On the ende of his Trumpet was a little a
 and 24 under it. He
 went away.
 Δ: They all now seemed to be gon: Michael and all. He cam in agayn and two with him. And he
 sayd, Hij duo Cælati sunt
 adhuc.348
 They two went away.
 Mi: Vale. Natura habet terminum suum.349
 Δ: He blessed us and florished his sword towards, and ouer us, and so went away: and Uriel after
 him: who all this while appeared not.
 Δ: After supper Mr. Talbot went up to his chamber to prayers: and Uriel shewed himself unto him:
 and told him that somwhat was amyss, in the Table or seale which I had byn occupyed abowt this day.
 And thereuppon, Mr. Talbot cam to me into my study: and requyred the Seale (or Tables) of me: for he
 was wished to correct somthing therin, (sayd he). I deliuered him the seal, and he browght it agayn
 within a little tyme after, corrected: both in the numbers, for quantyty and some for place ouer or
 under: and also in one letter or place omitted.
 Which I denyed, of any place omitted by me, that was
 expressed unto me. And the rather I dowted, uppon Michael his words last spoken, uppon two
 places
 then remayning yet empty: saying, Hij duo cælati
 more than two haue wanted.351
 sunt adhuc.350
 But If I had omitted any, there shold
 Whereuppon we thowght good to ax Judgment and dissoluing of this
 dowte, by Michael. And comming to the stone He was redy. I prepownded this former Dowte. He
 answered,
 Mi: Veritas est sola in DEO. Et hæc omnia vera sunt.352
 told you. But the skryer omitted
 to declare unto you.353
 You omitted no letter or history
 Δ: May I thus recorde it?
 Yt is iustly reformed by Uriel: the one being omitted of the descrier
 that was
 and the other not yet to us
 declared, might make that phrase meete to be spoken, Hij duo cælati
 sunt adhuc.354
 Mi: Thow hast sayd. Δ: I pray you to make-up that one place yet wanting. Then he stode up on his
 great brasen leggs agayn:
 He called agayn, Semiæl Semieil. Then he cam, and kneled down.
 Consummatum est.355
 Δ: The shewer (a white man) pluckt oute a trumpet, and put it to his mowth,
 as thowgh he wold blow, but blew not: and there appeared at the ende of the Trumpet the greke ω
 .
 There arose a myst, and an horrible Thunder.
Mi: It is done. Δ: Then of the three 6 6 6 before Noted, with his finger he put oute the two
 lowermost: and sayd, Iste est numerus suus.356
 357
 And Michael did put his finger into the Trumpets
 ende, and pulled furth a rownd plate of Gold, wheron was the figure of ‘i’ with many circles abowt it,
 and sayd, Omnia unum es
 Δ: The forme of the world which appered before, vanished away: and Se
 myeil358
 went away, And
 Michael cam and sat in his chayr agayn: and his brasen leggs wer gone, and uppon our pawsing he
 sayd,
 Mi: Go forward. Do you know what you haue allready written?
 Laudate Dominum in Sanctus eius.359
 Note: The Circumference (which is done) conteyneth 7 names:
 7 names, conteyn 7 Angels:
 Euery letter, conteyneth 7 Angels:
 The numbers are applyed to the letters.
 Whan thow dost know the 7 names, thow shalt understand the 7 Angells.
 The Number of 4,360
 thow shalt next
 pertayning to the first T, is a Number significatiue: signifying, to what place
 apply the eye: and being placed aboue, it sheweth removing toward the right hand:
 Taking the figure for the number of the place applyable to the next letter to be taken. The under
 number, is significatiue: declaring, to what place thow shalt apply the next letter in the
 Circumference, toward the left hand.
 Which thow must reade, untyll it light uppon a letter, without
 number, not signifying. This is the Whole. So shalt thow fynde the 7 principall Names: known with us,
 and applyable to thy
 practise.
 Make experience.361
 Δ: Then telling from the T, 4 more places (toward the right hand) exclusiuely, I finde in that fowrth
 place, from T, (but being the fifth from the beginning, and with
 ouer
 the begynning) this letter h: with 22,
 it. Therfore, I procede to the right hand, 22 places: and there I finde A, and 11 over it. Going
 then toward the right hand 11 places furder: I finde a little a
 with 5 under it: by reason of which under
 place of 5, I go toward the left hand, 5 places, exclusiuely, where I finde o
 with 10, under it:
 wheruppon I procede to the left hand, farder by 10 places, and there I see the letter t, and 11, under it:
 and therfore going to the left hand 11 places, I see there the letter h alone without any number.
 Wherfore, that letter, endeth my word, and it is in all, ThAaoth. Ys this, as it shold be?
 Mi: That is not the name. Thow shalt understand all in the next call
 .362
 The Rule is perfect. Call
agayn within an howre and it shalbe shewed.
 The howre being come we attended Michael his retorn to make the Practise euydent of his first
 Rule.
 Mi: Saluete.363
 Thow diddest erre: and herein hast thow erred: and yet notwithstanding no error in thee, bycause
 thow knowest not the error
 . Understand that the 7 Names must Comprehend, as many letters in the
 whole, as there are places in the Circle: Some letters are significatiue of them selues. In dede no
 letters, but dubble numbers
 , being the Name of God
 . Thow hast erred in the first name, in setting
 downe ‘Aa’; that is, twise a
 togither, which differ the word. Which thow shalt Note to the ende
 work: Wheresoever thow shalt finde two ‘aa’
 of thy
 togither the first is not to be placed within the Name,
 but rather left with his inward power
 . Thow shalt fynde 7 Names proceding from three generall partes
 of the Circumference: My meaning is, from three generall letters
 letter A.364
 : and onely but one
 letter, that is, this
 Accownt thow, and thow shalt finde the names iust. I speak not of any that come in the
 begynning of the word but such as light in the myddest: Proue, proue:365
 thow hast ‘go’, it is to be red ‘og’. This is the whole.
 and thow shalt see. Whereas
 Δ: I haue red in Cabala of the Name of God of 42 letters: but not yet of any, of 40 letters: That of 42
 letters is this,
 id est: Pater Deus, Filius Deus, spiritus sanctus Deus: Tres in uno, et unus in tribus. Vel Trinitas in
 unitate et unitas in Trinitate.367
 Or thus, which in Latin is, Pater Deus, Filius Deus, et Spiritus Sanctus,
 Deus, attamen non tres Dij sed unus Deus.368
 And as this is of God, Unitie in Trinitie, so of Christ
 onely (the second persone of the Diuine Trinitie) the Cabalists haue a name explained of 42 letters, on
 this manner,
That is in Latine, Sicut anima rationalis, et caro, homo unus, ita Deus et homo Messias unus.369
 I
 am not good in the hebrue tung, but, you know my meaning.
 Mi: The letters being so taken oute, being a name, and a number, doth certefye the old rule of 42
 letters
 , whan you restore them
 in agayn.370
 Mi: Note, Oute of this Circle371
 meaning is, if he be defyled:
 shall no Creature pass, that entreth, yf it be made uppon the earth. My
 This shalt thow proue
 to be a mysterie unknown to man. Beasts, birds,
 fowle and fish do all reuerence to it: In this they were all Created
 tyme thow shalt finde it, in ADAMS Treatise from Paradise.
 . In this, is all things conteyned. In
 372
 Looke to the Mysteries: for they are
 true. A and ω: Primus et Nouissimus; unus solus Deus viuit nunc et semper: Hic est, et hic erit: Et hîc,
 sunt Nomina sua Diuina.
 Dixi:373
 Thow art watcht all this night: who is euen now at the Dore: Clerkson. Blessed are those, whose
 portion is not with the wicked.
 Benedicamus Dominum.374
 Halleluyah.
Tuesday the 20 of Marche: circa 10ã mane.
 Δ: Are you Uriel?
 Ur: I am. We thank thee for thy great good will
 thow shalt use us.
 Δ: Fiat voluntas Dei.376
 .375
 We cannot viset thee now. At the twelfth howre
A meridie circa 2ã
 Δ: At the twelfth howre, my partner was busyed in other affayres, and so contynued tyll abowt 2 of
 the Clok: when; we comming to the stone, fownd there Michael and Uriel: but Michael straight way377
 rose up and went out, and cam in agayn, and one after him, carrying on his right shulder, 7 little
 baskets,378
 of gold they seamed to be.
 Mi: Shut up your doores. Δ: I had left the uttermore dore of my study, open: and did but shitt the
 portall dore of it.
 Δ: He toke the 7 Baskets, and hanged them rownd abowt the border of a Canapie, of beaten gold,
 as it were.
 Mi: Ecce, Mysterium est. Benedictus Dominus Deus Israel.379
 Δ: Therewith he did spred oute, or stretch the Canapy: whereby it seamed to couer all the world
 [which seamed to be in the stone, allso, heven, an erth] so that the skryer could not now see the heven.
 And the baskets, by equall distances, did seeme to hang in the border of the horizon.
 Mi: What wold you haue? Δ: Sapientiam.380
 Mi: Rede the names thow hast written. Δ: I had written these according to the Rule before giuen, as
 I understode it:
 Thaaoth 
Gal as 
Gethog 
Horlωn 
Innon
 A ^aoth 
Galetsog
 Mi: Loke to the last name. Δ: I had written, (as appeareth) Galetsog, by misreckening the numbers,
 where I fownd it shold be Galethog with an h and not s.
 Mi: Lo, els thow hadst erred. They are all right, but not in order. The second is the first (his name
 be honored for euer), The first here, must be our third, and the third here, must be our second: thus set
 downe.
 1. Galas
 2. Gethog
 3. Thaoth
 4. Horlωn
 5. Innon
 6. Aaoth
 7. Galethog
Mi: Work from the right, toward the left, in the first angle next unto the circumference. 
Δ: He shewed than, thus, this letter
 .
 Mi: Make the number of 5 on the right hand, (that is, before it) at a reasonable distance, thus 
Δ: After that he shewed the second letter, a great roman A, thus A+ 24.
 Then he shewed this compownd letter, with the circle and cross:
 5.
 He willed me, at each corner of these Segments of circles, to make little Crosses, and so I did.
 Δ: After euery of the 7 letters shewed he did put them up in his bosom as sone as he had shewed
 them fully. The plates wheron those letters were shewed, hath the forme of the segment of a circle,
 thus and seemed to be of pure gold. When the 7 letters were placed, he sayd,
 Omnia unum est.381
 Then he pulled all the 7 plates out of his bosom, and Uriel kneeled down before him. Then the
 plates did seeme to haue two wings (eche of them) and to fly up to heven382
 under the Canapye.
 Δ: After this, one of the 7 baskets, (that which is in the east) cam to Michael, and he sayd,
 Mi: Seal this:383
 For This was and is for euer.
 Δ: Then he stode agayn on his leggs like brasen pillers, and sayd,
 Mi: Oh how mighty is the name of God, which rayneth in the heavens, O God of the faithfull, for
 thow rayneth for euer.
Δ: He opened the basket, and there cam a great fyre out of it.
 Mi: Diuide the 7 partes of the circle next unto that which thow hast done, euery one, into 7.
 Note: (for the tyme wilbe Long) Seuen, rest in 7: and the 7, liue by 7: The 7, gouern the 7: And by
 7, all Gouernment is. Blessed be he, yea blessed be the Lord: praysed be our god. His Name be
 magnified. All honor and Glory be unto him now and for euer. Amen.384
 1. Δ: Then he toke oute of the fire in the basket, a white fowle like a pigeon. That fowle had a Z
 uppon the first of 7 feathers which were on his brest. That first feather was on the left side.
 Mi: Note. There is a mysterie in the seuen, which are the 7 governing the 7 which 7 gouern
 the earth
 . Halleluyah.
 Mi: Write the letters. Δ: Now, a small 1 in the second fether. Then he couered those first
 two letters, with the other feathers. The third an 1, like the other. Then he couered that allso.
 The fowrth an R. He covereth that. The fifth a great roman H. He couereth it. The sixth feather
 hath a little i. Then he hid that feather. The last feather had a small a.
 Mi: Prayse God.
 Δ: Then he put the fowle into the basket: and set it down by him. Then he hong it up in the
 ayre by him.
 Δ: Then he lift up his sworde over us, and bad us pray.
 Δ: We prayed.
 2. Δ: Then he stretched out his hand and there cam an other basket to him, and he pluckt out a
 white byrd, much bigger than the other: as big as a swan: with ‘7’ feathers on his brest.
 Mi: Dixit et factum est.385
 Mi: Note. Δ: The first feather hath a little a on it: and it went away. The next a Z great as
 the first. Then a C great. Then a little a
 . Then an other little a. Then a feather with a little c
 .
 Then one with a little b. Δ: Then he couered them all.
 Mi: Thow hast truth.
 Δ: Then he put up the fowle into the basket, and hung it up by the other in the ayre.
 Δ: Than the third Basket cam to him: and he toke out a byrd all green as grass, like to a
 peacok
 in form and bignes.
 Mi: Et viuis tu cum illo: et:
 regnum tuum cum illis est.386
 Δ: There started out of this birds brest, 7 fethers, like gold, and fyrie.
 Mi: Pray.
 3. Mi: Note. Δ: On the first feather a small p
 .
 Then a small a
 A little u.
 . 
Then a small p.
 Then a small n
 . 
Then a small h
 Then a small r
 . 
. Then he put the fowle up into the Basket &c.
Δ: Then there cam an other basket to his hand.
 Mi: Dedit illi potestatem in cælus.
 Potestas illius magna est. 
Orate.387
 Δ: We prayed.
 4. Δ: Then he pluckt out a fowle, greater than any of the other, like a griphen (as commonly they
 are figured) all red fyry, with skales like brass. Then on seuen skales, appered letters.
 Mi: Note. Δ: First a little h.
 A little d. 
A little m. 
Then a little h. 
Then a little i. 
Then a little a
 . 
Then a little i.
 Δ: Then he put up the fowle, & hung the basket in the Ayre.
 Δ: Then there cam an other Basket to him.
 [Δ: Note: All this while the firmament was not to be seen.]
 Mi: Magnum est DEVS in Angelis suis.
 et magna est illorum potestas in Cælis.
 Orate.388
 Δ: We prayed.
 5. Δ: Then he pluckt out a bird like an Egle all his body like Gold, and he had a little circle of
 feathers on his brest: and in it, betwene fowre parallell lines, twelue equall squares: and on
 the top, on the myddle, one, like the other twelue, thus:
 Δ: Then he put up the Egle &c.
 Δ: Then cam an other Basket.
 Mi: Nuncius tuus est magnus in cælis.
Orate.389
 Δ: He, and the Basket that wer opened, shut, and set aside, seamed all to be gon: and the
 Baskets remayning, still hanging on the border of the Canapie. Then he cam agayn, and went
 awaye agayne. Then cam URIEL and held the Basket: and his leggs seemed to be such great
 tall pillers of Brass: as Michael did stand on before.
 UR: This is a Mysterie.
 He is here
 , and not here which was here before.390
 6. Δ: He opened the Basket and pluckt out like a phenix [or pelican Δ] of the bignes of a swan:
 all fyrie sparkling. His byll is bent into his brest and it bled. In his brest was a quadrangle
 made with his own feathers, thus. He put it up, and hung it by the other Baskets.
 Then cam the last basket. Uriel stode still and sayde,
 UR: Dedit angelis potestatem in lumine Cæli.391
 Orate. Δ: We prayed.
 7. Δ: Then cam Michael and toke the Basket of Uriel and becam standing on the great brasen
 legs, as before.
 Δ: He toke out of the basket a strange fowle with many wings: This fowle had in his forhed
 a Tablet of this fashion:
these Mysteries: Go to, in the name of
 Mi: Et Coniunxit illos DEVS in unum.392
 Δ: All the Baskets flew up: and so the Canapie vanished away, and the Heaven appeared.
 Δ: Now he cam and sat down in his chayre.
 Δ: Michael sayd to Uriel, It is thy part, to expownd
 our God.
 Δ: Uriel cam and stode before him and sayde, What will you: Ô our fellows and seruants to
 GOD?
 What will you?
 Δ: Perfect knowledg and understanding, such as is necessary for us.393
 UR: Looke uppon, and see if thow canst not understand it: We will depart for a little space:
 and come to thee agayne.
 Δ: So they went: and left all the stone in fyre, so that neyther the Chayr or Table could be
 seen in it.
 Δ: After a quarter of an howre, Michael and Uriel cam both agayne.
 Mi: Loke into the 7 angles: next unto the uppermost Circumference.
 Δ: Uriel cam and stode before Michael.
 UR: Those 7 letters394
 are the 7 Seats of the One and everlasting GOD. His 7 secret Angels
 proceding from euery letter and 
Cross so formed
 : referring in substance to the FATHER: in forme, to
 the SONNE: and Inwardly to the HOLI GHOSTE
 . Loke uppon it: it is one of the Names, which thou
 hast Before: euery 
letter
 conteyning an Angel
 of brightness
 : comprehending the 7 
in
 ward 
powres
 of
 God
 : known to none, but him self: a Sufficient BOND to urge all Creatures to life or Death, or any
 thing els conteyned in this world.395
 Waters
 , strengtheneth the Just
 Yt banisheth the wicked
 , exalteth the righteous
 , expelleth euyll spirits
 and destroyeth the Wicked
 : qualifieth the
 . He is ONE in
 SEVEN. He is twise THREE.396
 He is seuen in the Whole. He is Almighty. His Name is euerlasting:
 His Truth can not fayle. His Glory is incomprehensible. Blessed be his name. Blessed be thow, (our
 God) for euer.
 UR: Thow must refer thy numbers therin conteyned, to the upper circle. For, From Thence, all
 things in the inward partes, shalbe comprehended.
 Looke if thow understand it.
 Δ: I finde it to be GALETHOG.
 UR: It is so. Δ: I thank God and you, I understand now (allso) the numbers annexed.
 UR: As this darknes is lightened, by the spirit of God, herein; so will I lighten, yea so will the
 Lord lighten your Imperfections, and glorifie your myndes to the sight of innumerable most holy
 and unspeakable Mysteries.
 UR: To the next part. Δ: Michael sat still, with his sword in his hand.
 UR: The parte wherein thow hast labored, conteyneth 7 Angels
 . Dost thow understand it? Δ: Not
 yet. Ur: Oh how far is mans Judgment from Celestiall powres? Oh how far are these secrets hidden
 from the wycked? Glory be unto him, which seeth for euer. Δ: Amen, Amen, Amen.
UR: Note: We cannot tary long. Thow must set down these letters onely, by 7, in a spare paper,
 thus:397
 UR: Rede----------------Begyn at the first, and rede downward.398
 Δ: I rede thus, Zaphkiel, Zadkiel, Cumael, Raphael, Haniel, Michaël, Gabriel.399
 Ur: Thow hast red right.
 Δ: Praysed be God.
 Ur: Thus dost thow see, how mercifully God dealeth with his seruants.
 Euery letter here, conteyneth or comprehendeth the number of 72 Vertues
 shalt know
 :400
 Whose names thow
 : skarse yet revealed to the world. Uriel and Michael iointly togither pronownced this
 blessing on us.
 Δ: Michael with his sword, and flame of fyre florished ouer our heds.
 Yet I will thus much shew you, for your Cumfort
 beside
 . What seest thow? Δ: He spake to the
 skryer. And he saw an innumerable multitude of Angels in the Chamber
 bewtifull with wyngs of fyre.
 Then he sayd,401
 Lo, thus you shalbe shaddowed402
 or study abowt us, very
 from the wicked. Kepe these Tables secret
 . He is secret that
liueth for euer.
 403
 Man is frayle. Fare well.
 ¶ He must go for the bokes, els they will perish.
 Δ: He ment that my partner Ed. Talbot, shold go
 to fatch the bokes from Lancaster (or therby) which were the L. Mowntegles404
 Mort yet hath: wherof mention is made before.
 Ended hor. 5. a meridie
 Tuesday the 20 Martij
 1582.
 bokes, which Mr.
Wensday 21 Martij, circa 2ã a meridie.
 Δ: After appearance was had, there cam in one before Michael (who sat in his seat) and Uriel leaned
 on the table (as he, usually did). This seemed to be a Trumpeter:405
 he was all in white, and his
 garments bespotted with blud. He had nothing on his hed. His heare very long hanging behynde him on
 his sholders. The Trumpet seamed to be gold. The sownd therof was very playne.
 Δ: I axed of my skryer, in what manner Uriel now shewed, (and Michael likewise.) Then Michael
 sayd, I warned
 thee for axing of my apparell
 or manner.406
 Et hæc est Gloria illius, quæ non
 commouebitur ab impijs.
 Mi: Quid vultis? Δ: Iuxta voluntate Dei, Sapientiam nobis necessariam &c.
 Mi: Sapientia mundi, nihil est, peribit autem in æternum. Veniat æternitas DOMINI, ab uniuersis
 mundi partibus. Venite, venite, sic vult DEVS ADONAY
 fac officium Phanaël.407
 Δ: This Phanael was the Trumpeter, (above mentioned) who thereupon blew his Trumpet, lustily,408
 turning him self rownd abowt, to all the world. Then, from 7 partes of the world, (being equally
 diuided abowt the Horizon,) cam 7 Cumpanyes of Pillers all of fyrye cullour glittring. And euery
 Cumpany of Pillers high and great and as thowgh they were Pillers of fyre. The Heauen, the Sonne,
 and, Mone and Sterrs seemed to tremble.
 Mi: Multiplex est Deus Noster.409
 Mi: Mark this Mystery. Seuen comprehendeth the Secrets of Heven and erth. seuen knitteth mans
 sowle and body togither (3, in sowle
 , and 4 in body)
 In 7, thow shalt finde the unitie.
 In 7, thow shalt finde the Trinitie.
 In 7, thow shalt finde the Sonne, and the proportion of the Holy Ghoste.410
 Thy Name (O God) be praysed euer, from thy 7 Thrones
 Δ: Amen, Amen, Amen.
 Mi: In 7, God wrowght all things
 .
 Mi: Note. In 7, and by 7 must you work all things
 .
 , from thy 7 Trumpets
 O God, O God, O god,
 , and from thy 7 Angels
 .
 . O Seuen tymes Seuen, Veritie, vertue and
 Maiestie. I Minister by thy licence. This expownd, by thy Vertue (Δ: Michael spake that, pointing to
 Uriel.)
 Δ: Michael and Uriel both kneeled down, and the Pillers of fyrie and brasen cullour, cam nere,
 rownd abowt them uniformely.
 Mi: Sic est DEVS noster.411
 Δ: One of the pillers leaned toward the skryer, and had like a pommel or mace hed, on the top of it.
 And Michael with great reuerence toke out of the top of it a thing like an S.
 Δ: Than leaned down 6 Pillers more: and Michael, cryed lowd,
 Vnus est DEVS noster, Deus Deus noster.412
 Δ: Then orderly he opened all the pillers heds: and then the 7 ioyned all togither, distinctly to be
 discerned.
 Mi: Note. Δ: There appeared a great
Δ: Then the sides closed up, and hid those letters first shewed. After that appered two letters more
 Δ: He made Cursy, and semed to go from ward, and vanished away.
 Mus∊ρoν est.413
 Δ: The Pillers all ioyned togither at the tops, making (as it were) One Mace or Pommell, and so
 flew up to heven wards.
 Δ: There seamed two pillers more to come down
 from heven (like 
place there, where the other 7, stode, which went away.
 Δ: Michael with his sword, Cut them asunder: and cryed out,
 Away you workers of Iniquitie
 Perijt Malus cum malis.415
 . 414
 Δ: The pillers fell down, and the grownd swallowed them up.
 Tanta est tua audacia Sathan
 416
 sed DEVS noster viuit.417
 the other
 in forme) and toke
 Δ: The pillers which before ascended, cam down ioyntly: and oute of them a Voyce saying, NON
 SVM.418
 Δ: Then the 7 pillers next his right hand, bowed to Michael, And oute of them, a voyce sayd,
 SVM.419
 Δ: Then one of the Pillers stode higher than his fellows, and Michael opened all the tops of them,
 and sayd,
 Orate.420
 Δ: We prayed.
 Mi: Write the Name down in the Tables.
 Δ: Then he toke of, 3 of the heds of the Pillers, and sett them downe and there appered, BTZ, great
letters in hollow places like square cumfet 421
 boxes.
 Mi: Ista sunt secreta secretorum.
 422
 Invocate Nomen eius, aut nihil agere possumus. 423
 Δ: We prayed.
 Note Key
 The key of Prayer
 openeth all things.
 Δ: Then the other 4 pillers, bowingly shewed 4 letters thus, KASE, and the number 30 with a
 prik under. Then the Pillers ioyned theyr heds togither very close, and flew up into the firmament
 with Thunder.
 Sic Domine, Sic, Sic.424
 Mi: Place these in the Table. Δ: I wrote and he sayd, Thow hast done right. Laudate nomen Domini
 qui viuit in æternum.425
 Δ: A voyce cam out of the next cumpany of the 7 pillers (ioyning them selues togither) saying,
 Ipse.426
 Mi: Et Misericordia tua Domine magna est.427
 Δ: Michael kneled whan he sayd this.
 Δ: Michael shewed out of 4 of theyr heds, of the pillers, (and with all sayd,)
NO, NOT the Angels of heuen, (but I,) are priuie of these 
things
 . Δ: So there appeared, 4 letters,
 HEID.
 Δ: Then the other 3 pillers were opened and had ENE on theyr tops.
 Dominus collocatur in numero suo.428
 Δ: The 7 pillers mownted up into the ayre, and it thundred at their going.
 Δ: Then the fowrth Cumpany of pillers bowed to Michael: out of them cam a voyce: Viuo sicut
 LEO
 in medio illorum.429
 Mi: Et tua potestas magna est ubique.430
 Δ: Then Michael pluckt of, fiue of the tops. There appered Δ:
 then they ioyned all togither: then
 appered EIMO.
 Mi: Hoc non est sine præce.431
 Δ: The other two opened, and there appeared  A.
 Δ: Then they closed up, and went away, with a great thunder.
 Δ: Then cam 7 other pillers to Michael, and a Voyce oute of them, saying, Serpens
 sum, et deuoraui
 serpentem.432
 Mi: Et bonis et malis serpens es Domine.433
 Δ: Then they closed all up; and Michael sayd, Orate. Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Then Michael toke of, the heds of 4: then appeared first an I, then MEG. Then he opened the
 other 3, and CBE appeared.
 Mi: Numerus illius, est nulli cognitus.434
 Δ: They ioyned theyr heds all togither, and ascended up to heuenward: and great lightening after
 them.
 Δ: Then cam an other Septenarie of Pillers: and oute of them a voyce, saying,
 Ignis
 sum penetrabilis.435
 Mi: Et sit nobiscum, Ȏ Deus.436
 Pray. Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Then he opened 4 of theyr heds and appered in them ILAO.
 Δ: They closed togither agayne.
 Δ: Then one other was opened, and I appered.
 Δ: Then . appered, and did shut up agayn.437
 Δ: Then he smote fyre out of the last pyller, and it thundred and there seemed to come out of it
 innumerable Angels like little
 Children with wings, and there appered N
 , and suddenly did shut up.438
 Sic sic sic Deus noster.439
 Δ: Then they ioyned all togither, and flew up.
 Mi: Note down in the table. Δ: I Noted them down.
 Δ: Then cam the last 7 pillers, and out of them this Voyce,
 Finis.
 Gaudium et Lux nostra Deus.440
Δ: Then they closed all in One.
 Mi: Orate. Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Then 6 of the heds opened and appered I H R L A A.
 Δ: Then the seuenth opened: Then seamed trees to
 be trubbled, and thrown up
 .
 leap up, and hills, and the seas and waters to
 Δ: A voyce cam out of the Pillers: Consummatum est.441
 Δ: There appeared in that Piller  .
 Δ: They ioyned togither and flew up to heven ward.
 Mi: VNVS VNVS VNVS.
 Omnis caro timet vocem eius.442
 Pray. Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Note: my skryer was very faynt, and his hed in manner gyddy, and his eyes, dasyling, by reason
 of the sights seen so bright, and fyrie, &c. Michael bad him be of good cumfort, and sayd he shold do
 well.
 Mi: Cease for a quarter of an howre.
 Δ: After we had stayed for a quarter of an howre, we comming to the stone agayne, fownd him
 come all ready to the stone: and Uriel with him. Who, allso, had byn by, all the while, during the
 Mysterie of the ‘7’ pillers.
 Mic: Set two stoles in the myddst of the flowre. On the one, set the stone: and at the other let him
 knele. I will shut the eares of them in the howse, that none shall heare us. I will shew great Mysteries.
 Michael than, with a lowd voyce sayd,
 Adeste Filiæ Bonitatis: 
Ecce DEVS vester adest: 
Venite.443
 Δ: There cam in 7 yong women apparelled all in Grene
 , having theyr heds rownd abowt attyred all
 with greene silk, with a wreath behinde hanging down to the grownd.444
 Michael stroke his sword
 ouer them, no fyre appearing: Then they kneeled: And after, rose agayn.
 Mi: Scribe quæ vides.445
 Δ: One of them stept out, with a little blue tablet on the forhed of her: and in it written, El.
 Δ: She stode a side, and an other cam in, after the same sort, with a great M, and a little e, thus,
 Me.
Δ: They all togither, sayd, Nos possumus in Cælis multa.
 446
 Δ: Then they went theyr way, suddenly disäpering.
 Mi: Note this in your next place but one. Δ: I did so.
 Mi: Go to the next place. Stay.
 Mi: Adeste, Filiolæ Lucis.447
 Δ: They all, cam in agayn, and answered, Adsumus Ô tu qui ante
 faciem 
449
 450
 451
 452
 DEI stas.
 448
 Δ: Then cam in 7 yong men, all with bright cowntenance, white
 uppon theyr heds, pendant behinde as the
 women had.
 453
 apparaled
 , with white silk
 One of them had a rownd purifyed pece or ball of Gold in his hand.
 One other had a ball of siluer in his hand.
 The third a ball of Coper.
 The fowrth a ball of Tynne in his hand.
 The fifth had a ball of yern.454
 The sixth had a rownd thing of Quicksyluer, tossing it betwene his two hands.
The last had a ball of Lead.455
 They wer all apparayled of one sort.
 Mi: Quanmvis456
 in uno generantur tempore, tamen unum sunt.457
 Δ: He that had the gold ball, had a rownd tablet of gold on his brest, and on it written a great
 Then he with the syluer ball, cam furth, with a golden tablet on his brest likewise, and on it
 written
 He with the Copper ball, had in his tablet
 He with the tyn ball, had in his tablet
 He with the yern ball, had in his tablet
 He with the Mercury ball, had written
 The yong man with the leaden ball, had
 Mi: Facite pro illis, cum tempus erit
 .458
 Δ: All answered, Volumus.
 459
 Mi: Magna est Gloria Dei inter vos. Erit semper. Halleluyah.460
 Valete.461
 Δ: They made cursy, and went theyr way, mownting up to heven.
 Mi: Dixit Deus, Memor esto nominis mei:
 Vos autem immemores estis.462
 I speak to you. Δ: Hereupon, we prayed.
 Mi: Venite, Venite, Venite.
463
 Filiæ Filiarum Lucis Venite.
 Qui
 habebitis fil
 ias venite nunc et semper.464
 Dixit Deus, Creaui Angelos meos, qui destruent Filias Terræ.
 Adsumus,465
 Δ: Sayd 7 little wenches which cam in. They were couered with white silk
 robes, and with
 white abowt theyr hed, and pendant down behinde, very long.
 Mi: Vbi fuistis vos?466
 Δ: They answered: In terris, cum sanctis et in cælis, cum
 glorificatis.
 467
 Δ: These spake not so playn, as the former did; but as though they had an impediment in theyr
 tung.
 Δ: They had, euery one, somwhat in theyr hands, but my skryer could not iudge what things
 they were. Mi: Non adhuc cognoscetur Mysterion hoc.
 468
 Δ: Eache had fowre-square Tablets on theyr bosoms, as yf they were of white Ivory.
 Mi: Quid istis facietis?
 Erimus cum illis, in omnibus operibus illorum.
 469
 They answered.
 Mi: Valete.470
 Δ: 
Δ: They answered, Valeas et tu Magnus O in Cælis.471
 Δ: And so they went away.
 Mi: Orate.472
 Δ: We prayed.
 Mi: Et misit filios filiorum, edocentes Israel.
 Mi: Dixit Dominus, Venite ad vocem meam.
 Adsumus, 473
 hanging sleues
 Δ: Sayd 7 little Childern which cam in, like boyes couered all with purple, with
 like preists or scholers gown sleues: theyr heds attyred all (after the former
 manner) with purple sylk.
 Mi: Quid factum est inter filios hominum?
 Male viuunt (sayd they) nec habemus locum cum illis tanta est illorum Iniustitia. Veh mundo,
 scandalis: vel scandalizantibus, Veh illis quibus Nos non sumus.474
 Δ: These had tablets (on theyr brests) three cornerd, and seemed to be very grene and in
them, letters. The first had two letters in one: thus, of EL:
 The first ---------- ----- Δ: He sayd, Nec nomine meo timet Mundus.475
 The second ---------- An ----- Nullus videbit faciem meam.476
 The third ---------- Aue ----- Non est virgo super terram cui dicam.477
 [Δ: And pointed to his tablet, wherein that word, Aue, was written.]
 The fowrth ---------- Liba ----- Tanta est infirmitas sanctitudinis Diei. Benefacientes decesserunt
 ab illo.478
 The fifth ---------- Rocle - Opera manuum illorum sunt vana. Nemo autem videbit me.479
 The sixth shewed his Tablet and said, Ecce -- Hagonel480- Qui adhuc Sancti sunt, cum illis
 viuo.481
 482
 The seuenth had on his tablet -- Ilemese -- Hij imitauerunt doctrinam meam. In me Omnis sita est
 Doctrina.
 Δ: I thowght my skryer had missherd, this word Imitauerunt, for Imitati sunt.483
 smyled and seemed to lawgh, and sayd, Non curat numerum Lupus.484
 minimam detrahet à virtute, virtutem.
 Mi: Estote cum illis
 : Estote (inquam cum istis)
 Δ: So they went, making reuerence,486
 and went up to heuen.
 Mi: Dictum est hoc tempore.487
 Mi: Note this in thy Tables. Dost thow understand it? Loke if thow canst.
 Δ: He sayd to Uriel, It is thy part, to interpretate
 Ur: Omnis Intelligentia est a Domino.
 Mi: Et eius Nomen est Halleluyah.
 489
 Compose a table, diuided into 7 parts, square.490
 And Michael
 And farder he sayd, Ne
 Estote (inquam) mecum. Valete.485
 these things.488
Ur: Those 7 names, which procede from the left hand to the right, are the Names of God
 , not
 known to the Angels
 : neyther can be spoken or red of man. Proue if thou canst reade them.
 Beatus est qui secrete. 
Nomina sua conseruat.491
 Ur: These Names, bring furth 7 Angels: The 7 Angels, and Governers in the heuens 
us,
 492
 which stand allwayes before the face of God
 Sanctus Sanctus Sanctus 
est ille DEVS noster,494
 .493
 next unto
 Ur: Euery letter of the Angels names, bringeth furth 7 dowghters. Euery dowghter bringeth furth her
 dowghter, which is 7. Euery dowghter-her-dowghter bringeth furth
 a sonne. Euery sonne in him self,
 is 7. Euery sonne hath his sonne, and his sonne is 7.495
 Let us prayse the God of Seuen, which was and is and shall liue for euer.
Vox Domini in Fortitudine.
 Vox Domini in Decore.
 Vox Domini reuelat Secreta.
 In templo eius, Laudemus Nomen eius El. Halleluyah.496
 See if thow canst now understand this table. The Dowghters procede from the angle on the right
 hand, cleaving the myddle: where 
theyr
 generation
 ceaseth. The Sonnes from the left hand to the
 right to the middle: so proceding where theyr number endeth in one Centre
 . The Residue thow mayst
 (by this Note) understande.497
 Δ: Then Michael, he stroke ouer us ward, with his sword, and the flame of fire yssued oute.
 Loke to the corner of the right hand, being the uppermost: where thow shalt finde  . Refer thyne
 eye to the upper number, and the letter aboue
 it. But the Number must be fownd under neth, bycause
 his prick so noteth
 .498
 Than procede to the names of the dowghters in the Table: and thow shalt see
 that it is the first name of them: This shall teache thee.
 Δ: Loking now into my first and greatest
 Circle for  I finde it with 1 ouer it. I take this to be the
 first Dowghter.499
 Ur: You must in this square Table set E by the  and now write them Composedly in one letter,
 thus  .
 Nomen Domini viuit in æternum.500
 Ur: Giue ouer, for half an howre, and thow shalt be fully instructed.
 Δ: I did so, and after half an howre comming to the stone, I was willed to make a new square table
 of 7: and to write and note, as it followeth.
501
 ,502
 ,503
 ,504
 ,505
 ,506
 ,507
 Vera est hæc Tabula, partim nobis cognita, et partim omnibus, incognita. Vide iam.508
 The 30 by E, in the second place, in the upper right corner, serueth not in the consideration of the
 first Dowghters
 , but for an other purpose.509
 The  by I, serueth for an other
 purpose
 : but not for this Dowghters Dowghter. The 21, is e, and 8
 with the prick under it is 1: which togither maketh El, or thus compownded as if it were one
 letter,  .
 The Names of the great Seale must follow the Orthographie of this Table. Virtus vobiscum est.
 Orate.510
 Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Then there appeared SAAI  M  . Here is an E comprehended in L.
 Ur: Read now the Table.
 Angeli lucis Dei nostri
 Et posuit angelos illius in medio illorum.511
 Ur: In the table are the names of 7 Angels. The first is Zabathiel, beginning from the left uppermost
 corner, taking the corner letter first, and then that on the right hand above, and than that under the first,
and than the third from the first, in the upper row: and then cornerwise down toward the left hand, and
 then to the fowrth letter from the first in the upper row: where there is I with , which maketh el. So
 have you Zabathiel
 .
 Ur: Go forward.
 Ur: This I in the last Syllable augmenteth the true sownd
 of it.
 512
 Ur: Write these names in the Great Seal, next under the 7 names which thow wrotest last: videlicet,
 under , An Aue &c. distinctly in great letters.
 Ur: Make the E and L of Zabathiel, in one letter compownded, thus ZABATHI . In this, so
 fashion your E and L. And this name must be distributed in his letters into 7 sides of that innermost
 Heptagonum. For the other, I will teache you to dispose them. You must make for IEL
 onely)
 (in this name
 I with the  annexed. So haue you iust 7 places.
 Ur: The next fiue names thow shalt dispose in the fiue exterior angles of the Pentacle: euery angle
 conteyning one whole name.
 Ur: Set the first letters of these 5 names, (in Capitall letters) within the fiue acute internall angles of
 the Pentacle: and the rest of eche name following Circularly from his Capitall letter, but in the 5
 exterior obtuse angles of the Pentacle.
 Ur: Set Z, of Zedekieil within the angle which standeth up toward the begynning of the greatest
 Circle. And so procede toward thy right hand.
 Ur: In the middle now of thy Pentacle, make a cross † like a Crucifix and write the last of those 7
 names Leuanael thus,
Uriel: Vidit DEVS, opus suum esse bonum
 et cessauit a Labore suo.
 Factum est.513
 Δ: Michael stode up and sayd,
 The æternall Blessing of God the FATHER,
 The mercifull Goodnes of CHRIST, his SONNE
 The unspeakable Dignitie of GOD the Holy GHOSTE bless you, preserue you, and multiply your
 doings in his Honor and Glory.
 Uriel: AMEN.
 Ur: These Angels are the angells of the 7 Circles of Heven,
 Blessed be GOD in us, and by us,
 Which stand contynually before
 the
 presence of GOD, for euer
 DIXI.515
 .514
 Δ: Whan may we be so bold, as to require your help agayn.
 Mic: Whan so euer you will, we are ready.
 Farewell.
 gouerning the lightes of the 7 Circles
 Δ: Sit Nomen Domini benedictum, ex hoc nunc, et usque in sæcula sæculorum.:
 Amen.516
 .
517
 
Mysteriorum, liber Tertius.
 Anno 1582:
 Aprilis 28: 518
Anno 1582 Aprilis 28 a meridie hora 4.
 519
 E.T: Onely Michael appeared; Δ: And to diuerse my Complayntes, and requests sayde,
 Mi: The lord shall consider thee in this world, and in the world to come.
 E.T: All the chayre seamed on fyre.
 Mi: This is one Action, in one person
 : I speak of you two.520
 Δ: You meane us two to be ioyned so, and in mynde united, as yf we wer one man?
 Mi: Thou understandest.
 Take heade of punishment for your last slaknes.
 Δ: Yf you mean any slaknes on my behalf, Truely it was and is for lak of habilitie521
 prepare things, appointed of you. Procure I pray you habilitie
 to buy and
 , and so shall I make spede.
 E.T: A great hill of gold with serpents lying on it appeared: he smyteth it with his sword, and it
 falleth into a mighty great water, hedlong.
 Mi: Dost thow understand? Δ: No verylie.
 E.T: He razed the hill away, as thowgh there had byn none; and sayd,
 Mi: Lo, so it is of this worldly habilitie
 .
 Δ: I pray you how must the Lamine be hanged?
 Mi: As concerning the lamine, it must be hanged unseen, in some skarf.522
 made, I will lessen
 it according to my pleasure.
 The Ring when it is
 I meane by two Cubites, your usuall yarde. Haste, for thow hast many things to do. Glory be to God,
 Peace unto his Creatures. Mercy to the wicked
 , Forgivenes to the Faithfull: He liueth, Ô he rayngneth,
 O thow art mighty, PELE
 : thy name be blessed. Δ: Amen.
 Venito Ese,523
 Δ: He cryed so with a lowd voyce.
 E.T: He is now couered, in a myghty couering of fyre, of a great beawty. There standeth a thing
 before him. I cannot tell what it is.
 Laudate Dominum in cælis.
 Orate.524
 Δ: We prayed.
 E.T: His face remayneth couered with the fyre, but his body uncovered.
 Mi: Adesdum Ese.
 Adesdum Iana.525
Vobis dedit demonstrationem in Tabulis vestris.526
 E.T: There appeare of the figure, (before, imperfect) two little women
 : One of them held up a
 Table which lightened527
 the myst, and sayd,
 Ex hijs creata sunt,
 terribly: so that all the stone was couered: with a myst. A voyce cam out of
 528
 et hæc sunt nomina illorum.529
 E.T: The myst cleareth, and one of the women held up a Table, being thus written uppon.
 Numerus Primus.530
 Δ: The Table semed square, and full of letters and numbers, and Crosses, in diuerse places,
 diuersly fashioned.
 Numerus Primus531
 A finger cam out of the mist, and wyped oute, the first shew, with the Cross, letters, and numbers.
 The second was in like wise. The Third was a b with the tayle upward thus: g . The 52 with the three
 great BBB, semed to be couered with Gold. The two Crossed ones he did not wipe out with his
 finger.
The next he blotted oute.
 He blotted not oute the three 
with the 8 and 3.
 The two barrs must go clere and not towch the bars.
 The , the square, wherin it standeth, is all gold: and that he let stand.
 Fire cam oute and burnt:
 The is all of a bright cullour, like the brightnes of the Sonne, and that was not put out.
 The places are very blak,
 but where the letters, and numbers do stand.
 E.T. hard a voyce saying, Finis Tenebrarum:
 532
 Halleluyah.533
 E.T: There commeth a hand and putteth the little woman into the clowde.
 Mi: Prayse God: Be inwardly mery.
 The Darknes is comprehended. 
God bless you: God bless you: God blesse you.
 You must leave of for an howre and a half: for you haue .6. other Tables to write to night.
 Prayse God: be ioyfull.
 After supper we resorted to our scholemaster.
 E.T: I here a voyce but see nothing: he sayeth,
 Initium bonum in nomine eius 
et est. Halleluyah.534
 E.T: Three quarters of the stone (on the right side) are dark, the other quarter is clere.
 Mi: Venite filiæ filiarum ESE.535
The nethermost......536
 on this manner:
 E.T: There come six yong maydens, all in white apparell, alike: Now they all be gonne into the
 dark parte of the stone, except one. There cam a flame of fyre out of the dark, and in the flame written
 Vnus537
 She that standeth without, putteth her hand into the dark: and pulleth out a ball of light: and threw it
 oute: and it waxed bigger and bigger; and it Thundred.
 E.T: A voyce sayd --------- Dies primus.
 538
 An other voyce --------- Ubi est Tabula?539
 An answer --------- Est, Est, Est.540
 She wyndeth and turneth her self abowt, begynning at her hed, and so was Transformed into a
 Table, rownde.
 E.T: Three faces do shew and shote oute, and euer returne into one hed agayne: and with it cam a
 mervaylous swete sauour. The Table was of three cullours: white, redd, and a mixture of white541
 and
 red, changeably. A strong sownding cam withall, as of clattring of harness or fall of waters; or such
 like.
 There cam a sterre shoting oute of the dark, and settled itself in the myddle of the Table: And the
 fyre which cam oute with the woman, did cumpas the Table abowt.
A voyce sayd, O honor, laus et gloria, Tibi qui es, et eris.542
 The Table sheweth wunderfull fayre and glorious. Onely seuen priks appeare on the Table.
 The three angles of the triangle open, and in the lower point appeared a great A.
 And in the right upper corner LV. (E.T: The Table trembled.)
 And in the other Corner appeared thre circles of æquall bignes, æqually, or alike intersecting eche
 others by theyr centers.
 A voyce: Unus est, Trinus est; in omni Angulo est.
 Omnia comprehendit: Fuit, est, et vobis erit. 
Finis et Origo.543
 pronownced.)
 (E.T: Ô, Ô; with a dullfull sownd, he 
E.T: The woman sayth, Fui: sum quod non sum.
 544
 A voyce: Lux non erat et nunc est.545
 E.T: The woman being turned, from the shape of the Table, into womans shape agayn, went into the
 dark. Then one part of the darknes diminished
 . In the dark was a mervaylous turmoyling, tossing, and
 stur, a long tyme during.
 A voyce: For a tyme Nature can not abyde these sightes.
 E.T: It is become Quiet, but dark still.
 A voyce: Pray and that vehemently, For these things are not revealed without great prayer.
 E.T: After a long tyme there cam a woman: and flung up a ball like a glass
 : and a voyce was hard
 saying, Fiat. The ball went into the darknes, and browght with it a great white Globe hollow
 transparent. Then she had a Table abowt her neck, square of 12 places.546
 The woman seamed to
 daunce and swyng the Table: Then cam a hand oute of the dark: and stroke her and she stode
 still, and
 becam fayrer: She sayd, Ecce signum Incomprehensibilitatis.547
E.T: The woman is transformed into a water
 , and flyeth up into the Globe
 of Light.
 E.T: A voyce: Est, Est, Est.548
 E.T: One commeth, (a woman) out of the Dark very demurely, and soberly walking, carrying in her
 hand a little rownd ball: and threw it into the dark: and it becam a great thing of Earth
 . She taketh it in
 her hand agayne, and casteth it up
 Fiat.549
 into the rownd Globe and sayd,
 E.T: She turned her back toward E.T. and there appeared a Table diuided into 24 partes. Yt
 seemeth to be very Square.550
A voyce: Scribe. Veritas est.551
 E.T: A sword cam out of the Dark: and cla
 ue the w
 oman
 and the other a woman,552
 a sunder, and the one half becam a man
 ,
 and they went and sat uppon the Ball of cley or erth.
 Now seemeth the Dark part to quake.
 A voyce: Venito Vasedg.553
 E.T: There cometh a woman oute of the Dark: she sayd,
 Vita hijs ex mea manu.554
 E.T: She sheweth a Table squa
 within a rown
 d.
 re full of holes, and many things creeping out of it. This square is
A voyce: O Lux Deus noster.555
 Hamuthz Gethog.
 E.T: Then stept out an other woman hauing a sword in her hand. She toke a thing oute of the dark (a
 bright thing) and cut it in twayn and the one parte she cut into two unæqual partes,
 and the other half
 she cutteth into a thowsand (or innumerable) partes. Then she toke all the partes up into her skyrt. She
 hath a Table, and it hangeth on her shulders. She stept before the other woman, whose hed standeth
 in
 the dark.556
 This woman her Table is fowresquare. She is very bewtifull.
 Note this Cross with the two bees, the 4 and the 6, is one of the Notes annexed to the second Table of
 the 4 of Enoch’s Tables: And the T of Enoch’s Tables semeth to answer with the T first in the Seale of
 Æmeth, and the cross allso.
 She sayd, Lumina sunt hæc Intelligentiæ tuæ.557
 She sayd, Fere nulli Credendus est hic numerus.558
 This woman taketh the little peces, and casteth them up, and they become little Sparks of light: and
 of the things she cast, There were two great rownd things. And they were allso cast up to the white
 Transparent Globe. And she went away into the Dark: which was, now, very much lessened.559
 Then the other woman (who was forestept)
 thrust oute her hed who had the rownd
 conteyning the
Squa
 re, with 36 places. She crymbleth clay, and it turneth to byrds
 . She seameth to be like a witch.
 Into the bosse of her Table, she put her hand and that bosse, was in the Dark and oute of the bosse, she
 seemed to fatch that Clay. She sayd,
 Ad usum tuum Multiplicati sunt.560
 E.T: She went into the Dark.
 E.T: A voyce is hard saying,
 Omnia gaudent fine.561
 E.T: There commeth oute a woman; out of the Dark. She plucketh at the dark, and casteth it on the
 grownd, and it turneth to herbes, and plants becomming like a garden, and they grow up very fast. She
 sayd,
 Opus est.562
 E.T: She hath a fowre square Table before her.
 Then cam one, all in white, and taketh the Darknes, and wrappeth it up and casteth it into the
myddle of the Erthen Globe
 , on which appeared Trees and Plants.
 E.T: Then appered Michael, his Chayre, and Table agayne manifestly: which all this while, were
 not seen.
 Mi: Obumbrabit vestigia vestram veritatis luce.563
 The Actor, The Actor, The Actor: 
One Disposer; he, which is one in all; and All in all: 
bless you from the wickednes of Deceyte
 : Create you new 
vessels: To whome I commyt you.
 E.T: He holdeth his sword over us, in manner, out of the stone.
 Mi: Fare Well. Serue God. Be patient. Hate vayne glorie. Liue iustly. Amen.
 Δ: What spede shall I make for the yard square Table, the Wax, the seale, and the Character? Mi:
 As thow ar motioned
 , so do.
 Δ: Gloria, Pri et F. et S.S. S.e.i.p.e.n.e.s.e.i.s.s. Amen.564
 Δ: Note, All the Tables before were by E.T, letter for letter noted out of the stone standing before
 him all the while: and the 7 Tables following wer written by me as he repeted them orderly out of the
 stone.
Aprilis 29: Sonday: Nocte hora 8¼.
 
E.T: Two appeare, Michael and Uriel.
 Mi: Et posuit illos in ministerium eius.
 Quid desideratis?
 
Δ: Sapientiam et scientiam nobis necessariam, et in Dei servitio potentem ad eius gloriam.
 Mi: Sapere, a Deo: Scire a Creatura et ex creaturis est.
 Ur:565 Venite filiæ.566
 E.T: Seuen women appeare bewtifull and fayre.
 Mi: This work is of wisdom (Δ: Sayd Michael, and stode up.) E.T, sayd to me (Δ), He putteth oute
 his sword and willeth me to sweare, to that, that he willeth me: and to follow his cownsayle.
 Mi: Wilt thow. Δ: Then with much ado, E.T. sayd as followeth,
 E.T: I promise,567 in the name of God the Father, God the sonne and God the holy ghost, to
 performe that you shall will me, so far as it shall lye in my powre.
 E.T: Now they two seeme to confer togither.
 Mi: Now you towche world, and the doings uppon earth. Now we shew unto you the lower
 world: The Gouerners that work and rule under God:568 By whome you may haue powre to
 work such things, as shalbe to god his glorie, profit of your Cuntrie, and the knowledge of his
 Creatures.
 To E.T. he spake, What I do wish thee to do, thow shalt here know, before thow go. We procede to
 One GOD, one knowledge, one Operation.
 Venite filiæ.569
 
Behold these Tablets: Herein lye theyr names that work under God uppon earth: not of the
 wicked, but of the Angels of light. The Whole Gouernment, doth consist in the hands of 49: (in
 God his Powre, Strength, Mercy, and Iustice) whose names are here euident, excellent, and
 glorious. Mark these Tables: Mark them. Record them to your Cumfort.
 This is the first knowledge. Here shall you haue Wisdome. Halleluyah.
 Mighty and Omnipotent art thow, O God, God, God, amongst thy Creatures: Thow fillest all
 things with thy excellent foresight. Thy Glorie be amongst us for euer. Δ: Amen.
 E.T: All the 7 (which here appeare) ioyne theyr Tables in One: Which, before they held apart. And
 they be of this Forme all to-gither. The myddelmost is a great Square and on eche side of it, One, as
 big as it, ioyning close to it. And ouer it ioyned two, which both togither wer æquall to it: and under
 it, wer such other two, as may appear in this little pattern. Being thus ioyned, a bright circle did
 cumpas and enclose them all, thus: but nothing was in the Circle.
[44 E: forte I, as in Baligon.]
 E.T: One stept-furth, and sayde,
 1: Wilt thow haue witt, and wisdome: Here, it is. (Δ: Pointing to the middle table.)
 2: Another sayd, The Exaltation and Gouernment of Princes, is in my hand. (Δ: Pointing to that on
 the left hand of the two uppermost.)
 3: In Cownsayle and Nobilitie I prevayle. (Δ: Pointing to the other of the two uppermost: which is
 on the right hand.)
 4: The Gayne and Trade of Merchandise is in my hand: Lo, here it is.
 Δ: He pointed to the great table on the right side of the myddle Table, that I meane which is
 opposite to our right hand while we behold those 7 Tables.
 5: The Quality of the Earth, and waters
 , is my knowledge, and I know them: and here, it is. (Δ:
 Pointing to that on the right hand: of the two lowermost.)570
 6: The motion of the Ayre, and those that moue in it, are all known to me. Lo here they are. (Δ:
 Pointing to the other Table below, on the left hand.)
 7: I signifie wisdome: In fire
 is my Gouernment. I was in the begynning, and shalbe to the ende. (Δ:
Pointing to the great table on the left hand of the Middle Table.)
 Mi: Mark these Mysteries: For, this knowne, the State of the whole earth is known, and all that is
 thereon. Mighty is God, yea mighty is he, who hath Composed for euer. Giue diligent eye. Be wise,
 mery, and pleasant in the Lorde; in Whose Name, NOTE,
 Begynne the Middle Table &c. Δ: I wrote oute of the stone the whole 7 Tables (as you see them
 here with theyr numbers and letters) while E.T. did vew them in the stone, and orderly express them.
 Δ: As concerning 39 V . 47 L &c in the second Table, where are 7 places: and there but 6 numbers
 and letters, and yet euery place semeth to haue a letter, in the iudgment of E.T. his sight. Which is the
 Number and letter wanting, and where must it be placed?
 Mi: Non potestis hoc videre sine ratione.571
 Δ: The Next day, as I was loking on the Tables being finished, and ioyned all togither in One
 Compownd Figure, E.T. cam to me, and stode by me, and his ey was on the forsayd place which
 I was forced to leaue empty, in the 7th and last. And behold he saw houering and hopping in the
 ayre, two numbers and two letters cuppled to them, ouer the sayd place, and the next before it.
 And that, which I had placed the sixth, was to be put in the seuenth place, and that which was
 wanting, was to be set in the sixth place being 30 N.572
 E.T: Euery of the 7 Tables, as they wer written out of the stone do seme afterward to burn all in
 fyre: and to stand in fyre.
 E.T: After all the Tables wer written, eche toke hir Table aparte agayn and stode in theyr order.
 E.T: Note moreouer. The First, had Bokes in hir hand.
 Kings -------------- The second, a Crown in hir hand.
 Nobilitie -------------- The Third, Robes.
 Merchants - Δ: - Aqua573- The fowrth, animal quadrupes vicium omnim colorum.574
 Terra575
 Aer576- The fifth, Herbes.- The sixth, a fanne.
 Ignis577- The seventh, a Flame of fyre in hir hand. Mi: Decedite in nomine eius, qui vos huc
 misit.578
 E.T: Uriel opened a boke in his own hand, and sayde,
 Ur: The Fontayne of wisdome is opened. Nature shalbe knowne: Earth with her secrets
 disclosed. The Elements with theyr powres iudged. Loke, if thow canst (in the name of God)
 understand these Tables. Δ: No: Not yet.
 Ur: Beholde; I teache. There are 49 Angels glorious and excellent, appointed for the
 government of all earthly
 actions
 : Which 49 do work and dispose the will of the Creator: limited
 from the begynning in strength, powre, and glorie.
 These shalbe Subiect unto you
 ,
 In the Name, and by Invocating
 which doth lighten, dispose and Cumfort you.
 By them shall you work, in the quieting of the estates, in learning
 uppon the Name of GOD
 ,
 of wisdome: pacifying of the
 Nobilitie, iudgement in the rest, as well in the depth of waters, Secrets of the Ayre,
 as in the bowells
 and entralls of the Earth.
 Ur: Theyr Names are comprehended within these Tables. Lo, he teacheth, he teacheth, Lo, he
 instructeth, which is holy, and most highest. Take hede, thow abuse not this Excellency, nor
 overshaddow it with Vanitie, But stick firmely, absolutely, and perfectly, in the love of God (for his
579
 honor) to-gither.
 Be mery in him: Prayse his name. Honor him in his Saincts. Behold him in wisdome: And shew
 him in understanding. Glorie be to him; To thee ô Lord, whose name perseth580
 throwgh the earth.
 Glorie be to thee, for euer. Δ: Amen, Amen, Amen.
 Ur: Lo, I will breifly teache thee; you shall know the Mysteries in him: and by him, which is a
 Mysterie in all things. The letters are standing uppon 7 equall numbers. The Number before them is
 signifying, teaching and instructing (from the first Table to the last,) which are
 the letters that shalbe
 ioyned to
 gither:581
 begynning all, with B, according to the disposition of the number untyll the 29582
 generall names
 be known. The first 29 are more excellent than the rest. Euery Name doth consist
 uppon the quantitie of the place: Euerie place with addition bringeth furth his name, which are 49.------- I haue sayde.----------Δ: I pray you to tell me the first Name. Ur: The first Name is BALI
 GON.
 Mi: I haue to say to thee,583
 and so haue I done:
 Δ: Now he spake to E.T., of the matter he sware him to, at the begynning of this last Instruction: and
 he told me afterward what Michael had willed and moved him unto. Wherat he seamed very sore
 disquietted: and sayd this to me,
 E.T: He sayd that I must betake my self to the world, and forsake the world. That is that I shold
 marry
 . Which thing to do, I haue no naturall Inclination: neyther with a safe Conscience may I do it,
 contrary to my vow and profession
 . Wherfore I think and hope, there is some other meaning in these
 theyr wordes.
 Mi: Thow must of force
 kepe it. Thow knowest our mynde.
 Δ: Deo opt. Max°. omnis honor laus et gloria in sæcula sæculorum. Amen.584
 Ended, hora noctis, 11½a circiter.585
Tabula Collecta: 49 Angelorum Bonorum, Nomina continens [per Δ]586
 Coordinatio Angelorum bonorum 49, per Jo. Dee, ita disposita587
 Liber 4.
Fryday Maij 4: hor 2½ a meridie
 Δ: E.T. wold not willingly now deale with the former Creatures, utterly misliking and discrediting
 them, bycause they willed him to marry.
 Neyther wold he put of his hat in any prayer to god, for the
 Action with them: whereuppon I went into my Oratorie, and called unto God, for his diuine help
 for
 the understanding of his laws and vertues which he hath established in and amongst his Creatures, for
 the benefyt of mankinde, in his seruice, and for his
 glorie &c. And commyng to the Stone, E.T. saw
 there those two, whom hitherto, we wer instructed to be Michael and Uriel.
 E.T: Michael and Uriel, both kneled holding up theyr hands: and Michael seamed to sweat water
 abundantly, somwhat reddish or bluddish
 . There cam 7 Bundells down, (like faggots) from
 heven
ward. And Michael taketh them kneeling. And Uriel taketh a thing like a superaltare and layeth it
 uppon the Table: and with a thing like a Senser doth make perfume at the fowre corners of the Table:
 the smoke ascending up: and the senser, at the last, being set on the Table it seemed to fall throwgh the
 Table.
 URIEL semeth to be all in a white long robe tucked up: his garment full of plightes588
 now to haue wyngs:
 and seemed
 (which, hitherto, from the begynning of these kinde of Actions he did not) and on
 his hed a bewtifull crown, with a white Cross ouer the Crown.589
 Uriel taketh the 7 Bundells from
 Michael: and with reuerence layeth them on the forsayd Superaltare.
 E.T: There commeth a man, as thowgh he were all of perfect pure glistring gold: somtyme seeming
 to haue One eye, and somtyme Three
 . From under the Table commeth a great smoke, and the place
 semeth to shake.
 Uriel lieth now prostrate on his face: and Michael contynually prayed sweating.
 The Glorious man seemed to open the Covering of the 7 bundells (being of diuerse cullored
 sylk,)
 and there appered, that these Bundells seemed to haue in them, of all Creatures some, in most glorious
 shew. The glorious man seemed to stand uppon a little hill of flaming fyre. He taketh-of, of one of the
 Bundells a thing like a little byrd; and it hoouereth affore him as thowgh it had life: and than it rested
 uppon the thing like a superaltare.
 This glorious man590
 seemeth to be open before, and his brest somwhat spotted with blud. He hath
 a berd forked of brownish cullour, his heare of his hed, long, hanging down to his sholders: but his
 face, for beutifull glittring, can not be discerned. His heares do shake, as thowgh the wynde carryed
 them. This man blesseth the bird, making a Cross ouer it
 : and, so he did three tymes. He looketh up to
 heven. Now the byrd, which, before, seamed to be but as byg as a sparrow, seameth to be as great as
 a swanne: very beutifull: but of many cullours.
 591
 Now looketh Michael up, and held up his hands to heven, and sayeth,
 Sic, Sic, Sic, Deus noster.592
 Uriel, (sayd)- Multiplicabit omnia, benedictione sua.593
 The former Bewtifull man taketh this fowle, setteth it on the bundell, and on the place, from whence
 it was taken:594
 And, now, the place where this byrd stode before, seameth allso, to be
 (proportionally) waxen as big as the byrd, (thus enlarged). This man taketh an other byrd,
 and putteth
the wyng of it
 , (encreased, as it
 , behind
 the wyng of the first (as-thowgh he yoked them.)595
 This second byrd, at this his first taking, was as byg, as the first was become
 shewed), and it was allso a very bewtifull ....
 E.T: All is suddenly dark, and nothing to be seen, neyther Chayre, nor any thing els.
 E.T: A voyce was hard, like Michael his voyce, saying,
 It was a byrd, and is a byrd, absent there is nothing but Quantitie.
 A voyce:596
 Wisdome.
 Beleue. The world is of Necessitie: His Necessitie is gouerned by supernaturall
 I, AM
 Necessarily you fall: and of Necessitie shall rise agayne. Follow me, loue me: embrace
 me: behold,
 .
 E.T: Now all the Darknes vanished, the man is gon. Uriel standeth at the Table, and Michael sitteth
 now in his Chayre: and sayd,
 Mi: This doth GOD work for your understanding. It is in vayne to stryve
 : All Government is in his
 hands. What will you els, what will you els?
 Δ: Progressum et profectum in virtute et veritate ad Dei honorem et gloriam.597
 Mi: This hath answered all our598
 cauillations.
 Δ: What hath answered all our Cavillations?
 Mi: Thow hast written.
 One thing you shall see more, as a persuasion to the Infirmitie.
 E.T: The two byrds, which were there, before, and gon out of sight, now are shewed agayn: but
 none of the bundells appere. They seme to
 grow to a huge bignes, as byg as mowntaynes:
 incredibly
 byg: and they seeme to hover up in the ayre, and to fly up toward heuen, and with theyr wyngs to
 towch the sky
 : And one of them with his bill seemeth to take sterrs into
 it: and the other bird to take
 them from the same byrd, and to place them agayn in the Skye. And this they did very often: and in
 diuerse places of the heuen with great celeritie.
 After this they semed to fly ouer Cities
 , and townes, and to break the clowdes in peces, as they
 passed: and to cause all dust to flye from all walls, and towres, as they passed, and so to make them
 clene. And in the streetes, as these two Byrds flew, seemed diuerse brave fellows, like bisshops, and
 Princis and Kings, to pass: and by the wyngs of these byrds, they were striken down. But simple
 seely599
 ones, like beggers, lame and halt, childern, and old aged men, and wemen, seemed to pass
 quiettly, untowched and unouerthrown of these two Byrds.
 And than they seemed to come to a place, where they lifted up, with the endes of theyr wyngs,
 fowre Carkasses of dead men (owte of the grownde) with crownes on theyr heds: wherof one seemed
 to be a Childe. First these 4, seemed leane, and deade: Then they seemed quick600
 liking:601
 and in good
 And they being raysed up: parted eche from the other, and went into 4 sundry wayes, Est,
 West, North and Sowth.
 Now these two fowles hauing theyr wyngs ioyned togither
 , light uppon a great hill
 : and there the
 First fowle gryped the erth mightyly and there appeared diuerse Metalls, and the ^ Fowle spurned
 them away, still.
 Then appeared an old mans hed, heare and all, on; very much wythered. They tossed it betwene
 them, with theyr feete: And they brake it: And in the hed appeared (in steede of the braynes) a stone,
 rownd, of the bignes of a Tennez ball of 4, cullours, White, black, red, and greene.
 One of them (he that brake the skull), putteth that rownd stone to the others mowth or byll. The
 other eateth or nybbleth on it, and so doth the other allso.
 ¶ Now these two byrds, are turned into men: And eche of them haue two Crownes like paper
Crownes, white and bright, but seeme not to be syluer. Theyr teeth are gold, and so likewise theyr
 hands, feete, tung, eyes, and eares likewise All gold.
 On eche of these two men, ar 26 Crownes of Gold, on theyr right sholders, euery of them, greater
 then other. They haue, by theyr sides, Sachels, like palmers602
 bags, full of gold, and they take it oute,
 and seemed to sow it, as corne; going or stepping forward, like Seedmen.
 E.T: Then sayd Michael, This, is the ende.
 E.T: The two men be vanished away.
 Mi: Learne the Mysterie hereof.
 Δ: Teache us (ô ye spirituall Creatures.) Than sayd Michael,
 Mi: Joye and helth giue unto the riche:
 Open strong locks: 
Be Mercifull to the wicked: 
Pluck up the poore: 
Read unto the Ignorant: 
I haue satisfyed thee: Understand: 
Read them ouer: God shall giue thee some light in them. I haue 
satisfyed thee:
 Both, How you shalbe io
 yned,
 By whome, 
To what Intent, and purpose: 
What you are, 
What you were, 
What you shalbe, (videlicet) in Deo.603
 Lok up this Mysterie:
 Forget not our Cownsayle:
 O GOD, thow openest all things: Secret are thy Mysteries and holy is thy name, for euer. The
 vertue of his presence, here left, be amongst you.
 Δ: Amen.
 Δ: What am I to do, with the wax, the Table, the ring or the Lamine? &c.
 Mi: When the things be ready, then thow shalt know, how to use them.
 Δ: How shall I do for the grauing of the ring; May not another man do it, thowgh, E.T. graue it not?
 Mi: Cause them to be made up, (according to Instruction) by any honest man.
 Δ: What say you as concerning the Chamber, for our practise? May my fardermost little chamber,
 serue, yf the bed be taken downe?
 Mi: At my next Call
 , for the Chamber, you shall know what to do.
 Δ: Benedictus Deus in donis suis:
 et sanctus in omnibus operibus eius.604
 Amen. ended hor. 4½605

Quartus Liber Mysteriorum
 A°. 1582
 Nouembris 15.
 Post reconciliationem Kellianam.
 Miserere nostri Deus
 Dimitte nobis, sicut et nos dimittimus606
 Thursday. Nouembris 15.607
 ...
 At the first, Uriel pluckt a thing from under the Covenant Table: and it grew Rownd, Bigger
 &; bigger, (of fyrie Cullour) bigger then all the world: and he sayd to me Δ:
 Uriel: Ultima est hæc ætas vestram, quæ tibi revelata erit.608
 Then cam swarming into the stone, Thowsand yea Inumerable people, Uriel sayd,
 Est in mundo, et incipiet cum illo alter Mundus.609
 and he bad,
 Note the forme of the thing seen. Note the cullour. The forme of the thing seen was a
 Globe Transparent fyre within which the people seemed to stand, Towers and Castells. &c.
 did appere therein, likewise. This Globe did king CARMARA seeme to go uppon, & to
 measure it: and there appeared a very riche chayre to be set: allmost at the top of the
 Convexitie of the sayd Globe. wherein he sat down.
 ...
 Michael: The Mysteries of God haue a tyme: and Behold, Thow art provyded for that
 tyme.
 ...
 All those before spoken of are Subiect to thy Call....
 Of friendship, at any tyme, thow mayst see them: and know what thow wilt.
 Every one (to be short) shall at all times and seasons shew thee direction in any thing....
One thing I answer thee, for all offycis. Thow hast in subiection all officis. Use them
 whan it pleas thee, as thy Instruction hath byn.
 ...
 King CARMARA610- This king, (being called first by Uriel,) appeared, as a Man, very
 well proportioned: clad in a long purple Robe: and with a Triple Crowne of Gold on his hed.
 At his first coming he had 7 (like men) wayting on him: which afterwarde declared them
 selues to be the 7 Princis Heptarchicall. Uriel deliuered unto this king (at his first
 appearing) a rod or straight little rownd Staff of Gold: diuided into three equall
 distinctions, whereof, two were dark or blak: and the third bright red. This red he kept still
 in his hand.
 ...
 King BOBOGEL appeared in a blak veluet coat, and his hose close, rownd hose with
 veluet upperstocks: ouerlayde with gold lace: On his hed a veluet hatcap, with a blak
 feather in it: with a Cape hanging on one of his sholders, his purse hanging abowt his neck
 and so put under his gyrdell at which hong a gylt rapier, his berd was long: he had pantofells
 and pynsons. And he sayd, I weare these Robes, not in respect of my self, but of my
 government, etc.
 Prince BORNOGO appeared in a red Robe, with a Gold Cerclet on his hed: he shewed
 his Seale, and sayde, This it is.
 King BABALEL...
 Prince BEFAFES appeared in a long red robe, with a cerclet of Gold on his hed. He had a
 golden girdle: and on it written BEFAFES. He opened his bosom, & appeared leane: and
seamed to haue feathers under his Robes. His Seale, or Character, is this:
 King BYNEPOR...
 Prince BUTMONO appeared in a red Robe, with a golden Cerclet on his hed:
 His Seal is this:
 King BNASPOL...
 Prince BLISDON appeared in a Robe of many Cullours: and on his hed a Cerclet of
 Gold. His Character, or seale:
King BNAPSEN...
 Prince BRORGES appeared in his red apparayle: & he opened his Cloathes and there
 did issue, mighty & most terrible or grisely flames of fyre out of his sides: whych no mortall
 eyr could abyde to loke uppon any long while. His Seale, or Character is this:
 King BALIGON...
 King BLVMAZA...
 Prince BRALGES appeared in a red Robe with a Cerclet on his hed. This is the Seale of
 his gouernment:
 
 
One611 (of the 7 which was by him) he who stode before him, with his face from ward him, now
 turned his face to him ward.612
 Regnat potestas tua in filijs. Ecce signum Operis.613
 Δ: There appeared these two letters, euersed and aversed, in a white flag and a woman
 standing by, whose armes did not appere.
 
 Note. My name is Carmara.614
 Δ: On the other side of the flag appeared the armes of England. The flag semed old.
 Adhuc duo, et tempus non est.615 (Δ: Sayd the man616 which stode before Carmara,) and lifted up
 his hand and avaunced his body: and the other 6 gaue him place. He spred his armes abroad: and so
 turned rownd toward all the multitude (appering within the Globe:) as if he wold require audience.
 He sayd than thus,
 The Sonnes of men,617 and theyr sonnes, ar subiected unto my commaundent. 618 This is a
 mystery. I haue spoken of it. Note it throwghly. They ar my seruants. By them thow shalt work
 mervayles. I gouern for a tyme:619 My tyme620 is yet to come. The Operation of the Earth is
 subiect to my powre:621 And I am the first of the twelve. My seale is called Barees: and here it
 is.
 
(Δ: This he held in the palm of his hand: as thowgh it had byn a ring, hanging allso over his myddle
 fingers622). With a great voyce he sayd, Come ô ye people of the erth:623
 1. (Δ: Then there cam a great Number of onely Kings, from amongst the rest of the multitude
 within the Globe: They kneele down; and some kyssed his seale and some did stand frowning
at it. Those kings that kissed it, had, eche of them, a sword in one hand, and a payre of
 Ballance in the other: the balances being euen, and counterpeysed.624
 But the other had allso
 ballances, which hong uneven, the one scale lower then the other. The euen balanced kings
 were of glad cheare:625
 but the other wer of a sowre and hevy cowntynance.
 It is, and shalbe so: And the workmanship of this, is to this ende.
 2. Then cam noble men: (Δ: and he held up his hand,) and they parted them selues into two
 Cumpanyes: and ouer the heds of them, appered these two wordes. Vera,626
 Cumpany: and Impura627
 over the other.
 Verus cum veris, et Impurus cum Impuris.628
 3. Come ô ye Princes of Nature
 over one
 . Δ: Then cam in Anncient and graue Cowtenanced men in blak
 gownes: of all manner of sortes.629
 measures:630
 Diuerse of them had bokes: and some had stiks like
 and they parted into two Cumpanies. Eyther cumpany had his principall. One of
 these Cumpanies fell at debate among them selues. The other Cumpany stode still. There
 appeared before eche of these Cumpanyes a great boke. Uppon the bokes was written; on the
 one, Lucem; and on the other, Mundi tenebras.631
 they all fell down: and the boke with Lucem632
 The Forman spred his hands ouer them, and
 on it waxed bright: and they which attended on
that boke (Lucem) departed.
 Gather, by these few spriggs the Cumpas of the whole field. Δ: I demaunded of him, what
 his name was: and he answered,633
 I am Primus et Quartus634 Hagonel.
 
Δ: This Pri. Quar, shewed his635 seal  to the Multitudes and they beheld it, and of them some
 florish, som stand, and some fall.
 1. [Δ: Then he sayd,] The first were the Kings of the earth; which tell the priks of the last  ,
 take place, are, and shall be. In this thow mayst lern science. Note a mysterie. Take a place, is
 as much, as, Ende with place.
 Δ: Then he threw down a great many of them before him. Here is his name, (pointing to 
[Δ = Carmara636] on the upper part of the Globe.) Not withstanding I am his Minister - [D in
 generall particularly Blumaza.]
 There are kings fals and uniust, whose powre as I haue subuerted and destroyed, so
 shalt thow. Thow seest the weapons.637 The Secret is not great.
 Δ: I know not what the weapons are. Pri. Quar. sayd, Write, and I will tell thee. Δ: The
 three, of eche side did syt down while Pri Quar did thus speake.
 I am the first of the fowrth Hagonel.
 Δ: I had thowght that ye sayd before, you had byn the first and the Fowrth of Hagonel.
 Pri Quar. I am HAGONEL, and govern HAGONEL. There is Hagonel the first, Hagonel the
 second, and Hagonel the third, I am the first that gouern the three. Therfore I am the first and
 last of the fowre.638
 Δ: In the meane space of the former multitude some were falln deade, of some theyr
 mowthes drawn awry: of some theyr legs broken &c. And then, pointing to  (Δ: =
 Carmara) he sayd,
 In his name, with my name, by my character and the rest of my Ministers, are these
 things browght to pass.639 These that lye here, are lyers, witches, enchanters,
 Deceyvers, Blasphemers: and finally all they that use NATVRE, with abuse: and
 dishonor him which rayneth for euer.
 2. The second assembly were the Gouerners of the Earth, whose glory yf they be good, the
 weapons which we haue towght thee, will augment: and Consequently, if they be euill,
 pervert.
 3. The third assembly are those which taste of Gods mysteries, and drink of the iuyce of
 Nature, whose myndes are diuided, some with eyes looking toward heaven, the rest to
 the center of the Earth. Ubi non Gloria, nec bonitas nec bonum est.640 It is wrowght, I
 say, it is wrowght (for thy understanding) by the seuen of the seuen which wer the
 sonnes of sempiternitie,641 whose names thow hast written642 and recorded to Gods
 Glory.643
 Δ: Then he held up his hands, and seemed to speak but was not herd (of EK644) as he
 told me: and theruppon Pri Quar sayd, Neyther shalt thow heare, for it is Vox hominibus
 non digna. Illi autem cum filijs suis laudauerunt Deum. Benedictus est qui fiius est unicus,
et Gloria mundi.645
 EK saw like a black cloth646
 come-in and cover all the forepart of the stone, so that nothing
 appeared in the stone. Then was hard a voyce saying, Loke for us no more at this tyme: This647
 shalbe a token, (from this tyme forth) to leaue.648
 Δ: Laus et Honor sit Deo Immortali et Omnipotenti nunc et semp. Amen.649
1582 Die ♀ A meridie: hora 5. Nouemb. 16.
 Δ: He with the triple Crown on his hed, in the long purple robe
 , had now onely that part of the
 rod in his hand, which was clere red: the other two parts being vanished awaye. He shoke his
 rod, and the Globe under him did quake. Then he sayde, Ille
 enim est Deus, Venite.650
 Δ: All the
 7 did bow at his speache. He holdeth up the flag, with the picture of a woman paynted on it, with
 the (as before was noted) on the right side of her.
 And on the other side of the flag, were the Armes of England
 . He florished with the flag very
 muche, and went as thowgh he did marche, in warlike manner uppon the upper and utterparte of
 the Globe. He pointed up to the Flag
 and sayde, There is two to come,
 there is no more.
 651
 All
 the people in the Globe seamed to be glad and reioyce. Now he setteth down the Flag, and sayd,
 Come, Come, Come; And the 7 cam all before him. They hold up all togither,
 Heptagonum
 stellare, seeming to be Copper
 .652
 1: The first Holder,653
 sayd, Me nosti:654
 and so pulled his hand of from the Heptagonum.
 2: The second of the .7. taketh his hand of and doth reverence and sayd, I am he which
 haue powre to alter the In
 corruption of NATVRE. With my seale, I seale her and she is
 become perfect.
 I prevayle in Metalls
 : in the knowledge of them
 : I haue byn in Powre
 with many, but Actually with few. I am of the first of the
 655
 twelue the Second of the
Seuen
 . Wilt thow know my name?
 Δ: Full gladly.
 I am BORNOGO
 : this is my Seale: This is my true Character. What thow desyrest in
 me shalbe fullfilled.
 Glory to God. Δ: He kneled down, and held up his hands toward the
 Heptagonum.
 3: The next (or third) sayd, I am the Prince of the Seas
 : My powre is uppon the waters. I
 drowned Pharao: and haue destroyed the wicked. I gaue 
life unto the
 seas: and by me the
 Waters move. My name was known to Moyses. I liued in Israel: Beholde the tyme of Gods
 visitation.
 I haue measured, and it is ‘8’.656
 This is a mysterie. God be mercifull to his people.
 Behold, Behold Lo, behold, my mighty powr consisteth in this. Lern wisdome by my
 words. This is wrowght for thy erudition
 , what I enstruct thee from God: Loke unto thy
 charge truely. Thow art yet deade
 : Thow shalt be reuiued.
 blessing that God giueth me, I will bestow uppon thee
 But oh, bless God truely: The
 by permission.
 Ô, how mighty is our god which walked on the waters; which sealed me
 with his name
 ,
 whose Glory is without ende. Thow hast written me, but yet dost not Know me. Use me
 in the name of God
 . I shall at the tyme appointed
 be ready. I will manifest the works of
 the seas and the miracles of the depe shalbe knowne
 . I was Glorifyed in God. I Skurged
 the world. Oh oh oh, how they do repent.
 Misery is theyr ende, and Calamitie theyr meat.
 Behold my name is print..... for euer: behold it. Δ: He opened his bosom and seamed leane:
 and seemed to haue feathers
 657
 BEFAFES
 under his robes. He had a golden gyrdel: and on it, written
 . Than he sayd, Blessed be thow Ô God, God, God, for euer. I haue said.
 Δ: He toke his hand of from the Heptagonum.
 Δ: The blak Cloth was drawn: which is now appointed to be our token from them, that
 we must leave of for that instant.
 Δ: Deo soli, omnis honor, et Gloria.658
 Amen.
Friday. After drinking at night, circiter horam 8 ã.
 
Δ: On the left side of H (sitting in the Chayre) appeared yet three, holding up the Heptagonum,
 on one on the other side below. He sat with his face from EK toward me. I stode and my face
 sowthward. EK he sat at the same table, with his face Northward.
 
4: The Fowrth659 (holding below) Cryed: Earth, Earth, Earth.
 EK: He speaketh Hollow, so that I understand nothing. Δ: Than he answered, They are the
 wordes of my Creation, which you are not worthy to understand. My Powre is in Erth:660 and I
 kepe the bodies of the Dead.661 Theyr numbers are in my bokes. I haue the key of Dissolution.
 Behold, Behold, All things, yea All things, haue theyr workmanship with me. For I am the
 ende of working. EK: He falleth down prostrate, and speaketh, I know not what, Δ: Than he
 sayd, I haue the light of his anger,662 and I will destroy it. Ô, Ô, Behold, It is a light left
 within the bottomles pit. It is the ende and the Last. O blessed shall thy name be, Blessed shall
 thy name be for euer. Behold this is my seale:
 
Behold, the bowels of the earth are at my opening. Δ: Than I requested him to help me with
 some portion of Threasor hid,663 to pay my detts withall and to buy things necessarie &c. He
 answered, O wordling thow shalt be satisfyed with welth of this world. Behold Behold Lo, lo
 Behold, vehemently I say Behold. I haue, horded Threasor, for the sonne of perdition,664 the
 first Instrument of his destruction. But, lo these Cauerns. Δ: He shewed to EK the Cavernes of
 the earth, and secret places therof and afterward sayd: Mark this, All spirits, inhabiting
 within the earth, where, their habitation is, of force, not of will, (except the myddest of
 my self. which I know not), are subiect to the powre hereof. Δ: Pointing to his Seale.665
 With this you shall govern, with this you shall unlok. With this (in his name who rayneth)
 you shall discouer her entrayles. How say you now? Can you do it? Ar not your Magiciens
 acquaynted with me? Yt greueth me to regester the bones of the Wycked. Prayse him Butmono,
 Prayse him Butmono, prayse him. Δ: Is that your name, I pray you tell me. He answered, yea it
 is my name. It is the ende666 of all things. EK: Now he sitteth down.
 5. Δ: Now the Fifth turned his face toward EK (Who [EK] sat before me, and opposite unto me)
 and stepped furth and sayd: I am life and breath in Liuing Creatures.667 All things liue by me,
 the Image of One excepted.668 Behold the face of the Earth. EK: There appeareth all Kindes of
brute beastes, fowles, Dragons, and other. Δ: He Clapt his hands to gither and they all,
 vanished away at ones: they cam agayn: and went then away and retorned no more. But the
 people within the Globe remayned still as from the begynning: he sayd while the beastes were
 yet in sight, Lo, all these, do I endue with life: my seale is theyr Glory. Of God I am
 Sanctifyed: I reioyse: (1) the Liuing, (2) The ende, and (3) begynning of these things,669 are
 known unto me: and by sufferance I do dispose them untyll my Violl be run. EK: He taketh owt
 of his bosom a little vyol glass: and there seameth to be fiue or six sponefulls of oyle in it. Δ:
 He answered and sayde, That it is: and it is a mysterie. Δ: I spake somwhat of this oyle, and
 he answered me, and sayd, Thow sayst true. In token of God his Powre and Glory, write down
 BLISDON. EK: He taketh his hand of from the Heptagonum.
 6. The sixth pulleth open his Clothes and red apparell, and there yssueth mighty fyre oute of his
 sides. [Δ: Note, the cote of the first of these seuen is shorter670 then any of his fellows coats
 are.] The sight of the fyre is very owgly, grisely, terrible, and skarsly of mans eye can be
 beholden. At length he pluckt his coates to gither, and sayd to EK, Ô I wold shew thee, but
 flesh and blud cannot see. Write shortly, (it is enowgh) Noui Januam Mortis.671 Δ: Than sayd
 he to me in an ernest muse, Ô, Muse not, My words ar dark; but with those that see, light
 enowgh. Et per cussit Gloria Dei, Impiorum parietes. Dixi.
 Δ: In mervaylous raging fyre, this worde BRORGES673 did appeare, tossed to and fro
 in the furious flames thereof, so abundantly streaming out, as yf all the world had byn on fyre,
 so that EK, could not endure (without great annoyance to his ey sight) to behold the same. And
 finally he sayd, Mysteria in animis vestris imprimite.674 And so the fyre vanished away.
 7. EK: The stone semeth all Blew: and onely One now beholdeth the Heptagonum: all the
 rest being set down: who semed now to extend theyr hands one toward an other, as
 thowgh they played, now being rid of theyr work. Now the last putteth his hand to the
 Heptagonon and turned his face to EK hauing his face (all the while before) turned toward D.
 He sayd, The Creatures liuing in my Dominion,675 ar subiect to my powre. Behold I am
 BRALGES.676 The powres under my subiection are Invisible. Lo what... are. EK: All the
 world semed to be in brightnes or w... fire: and therin appered Diuerse little things like
 little smokes without any forme.677 He sayd, This is the seale678 of my Gouernment.
 Behold I am come, I will teache the names without Numbers. The Creatures subiect unto me
 shalbe known unto you.
 
¶ Beware of wauering. Blot out suspition679 of us for we are Gods Creatures, that haue
 rayned, do rayne & shall raigne for euer. All our Mysteries shalbe known unto you.680
 EK: All the 7 vanished away, onely H remayning who sayd (being stand up, and leaning uppon his
 Chayre, and turned to EK), Behold, these things, and theyr mysteries shalbe known unto you,
 reseruing the Secrets681 of him which raigneth for euer: [EK: The voyce of a multitude,
 answered singing,] Whose name is Great for euer. H Open your eyes, and you shall see from the
 Highest to the lowest.682 The Peace of God be uppon you.
 Δ: Amen. EK: The blak Cloth was drawn before all the things conteyned in the stone: which was
 the Token of Ceasing for that tyme:
 Sanctus sanctus sanctus Dominus Deus noster.683

Anno 1582: Saterday. Die 17. Nouemb: A meridie hora circiter 1 ã.
 684
 
Δ: The Cloth remayned drawn, a prety while after we had done our prayers to God, and so was all
 the things in the stone kept from sight.
 Δ: The Man with the Crowne,685 (he onely) appeared first, and the transparent Globe with the
 people of the world in it, as before. The Diaphanitie, or (as it wer) the Shell of the forsaid Globe,
 was very glystring bright. The man686 shaked his hand toward me and the bak of the Chayre was
 toward EK. On the globe appered a trace like a seame, of two things ioyned to gither, or rather a very
 narrow path: which began below on the Convex superfices of this globe and went upward to the
 verticall point or (as it wer) the zenith prik of it: but from the lower part of the same to the place
 where the chayre stode, it seamed broder, and more worn, than from the chayre up to the vertex or top
 prik: for that part (which semed to be about the eighth part of the whole) did appere very smalle, and
 unworne, or unoccupyed.
 Δ: He turning his face toward EK, spake thus, I haue declared things past and present. And now I
 speak of things to come. The Whole shalbe manifest. Nam ipse unus et Indiuisibilis est. Gloria Gloria
 Gloria Creatori nostro.687 Two partes688 are yet to come, the rest are finished allready. Δ: He shewed
 the rownd Table689 with letters and numbers which master Kelly sent me: and than he toke it away
 agayn. Then he sayd,
 Venite gradatim repetamus,690 opera Dei.691
 
Δ: The first of the .7. which had yesterday appeared, did now appere with the short robe,692 as he
 did before. Than H sayd smylingly (being turned to EK),
 Hæc sunt documenta tua,693 quæ nondum intelligis.694
 
Δ: Than the man with the short robe, the Forman of the 7 (yesterday appearing) sayd,
 Unus est Deus, et Unum est opus nostrum.696
 
Δ: Then cam very many uppon the Globe his convex superficies and they sayd,
 Parati sumus seruire Deo nostro.697
 
Δ: Eche of these had somwhat in theyr hands. Som had crownes, some garments &c.698
 The number of them was: 42: and stode in this order:
and sayd embracing (as it wer) the whole number of this Cumpany,
 Et nomen meum, numerus est totus 
Nec est crimen in numero nostro 
Moyses nos nominauit. 
Potestas istorum, quàm istarum, quamvis non una, 
tamen in uno sunt.700
 
Δ: I sayd that I thowght there wanted at the begynning of this sentence, this word Tam.701 He
 answered, it might be understode by his pointing to them there standing, and sayd farder in respect of
 this my dowt, Quatenus est hæc vanitas vestrorum? Tu nosti numeros hos esse in Deo, in Mundo, et in
 minori mundo. In Deo, id est Nobiscum. In Mundo, quantum apud vos: In minori Mundo, quantum in
 vobis.
 (Combinatur animus tuus cogitatione.) Disseritur apud Phõs., idque maximè) de NATVRA, quæ
 non vobiscum, sed nobiscum (ah, ah, ah) et in nostra potestate est. Videbis Deum. Vidisti opera
 nostra, Opera (inquam) manuum suarum: Digito Dei mouebimur. A Deo venit. Homo, et cum
 hominibus fuit: est enim cum illis. Illius namque potestas, vim, virtutem, et esse dat,702 non nobis
 solum modo, sed operibus nostris.
 Inhumata tibi anima tua, quid quærit?703
 
Δ: I understand you now: He answered Ab humo, homine: Ab homine dictum est.704 I axed thee,
 what thow desyrest.
 Δ: Wisdom, and Veritie, I answered: // then, he answered, H: Thow shalt. Δ: There cam in a
 smyling fellow: and they pluckt him, and towsed him. He cryed he wold tell Newes: and they
 answered, that there was none for him to tell: and he skaped705 from them, or they let him slyp, with
 all his clothes torn of: and he semed to crepe or get away under the globe, and (as it wer) to get
 behinde the Diaphanous Globe.
 Δ: These 42 had all of them somwhat in theyr hands: as eyther whole Crownes, or 3/4 of Crownes,
 or robes &c. Six of them semed more glorious than the rest, and theyr Coates longer: and had cerclets
 (abowt theyr hed) of Gold: and these had perfect Crowns in theyr hands. The second six had thre
 quarters of Crownes, the Third six, haue clothes706 in theyr hands.707 All the rest semed to haue balls
 of gold: which they toss from one to an other: but at the catching they semed empty wynde balls: for
 they gripe them, closing theyr hand, as yf they wer not solid, but empty, like a bladder.708
 Δ: The first six sayd, Our names cannot be expressed: neyther can the names of these that follow.
 Δ: The first six made cursy to the man with the short robe: the second six made cursy to the first,
and the Third to the second, and they all, and the short robed man
 of them here. (Δ:
 , made cursy to H.
 Our workmanship is all one. Δ: Sayd the short robed
 H: The whole day is diuided into 6 partes:710
 man.709
 Euery part occupyeth a part
 Pointing to the 42 standing there.) Therfore yf thow wilt work with Kings
 meaning), finally what so euer thow wilt do in theyr
 (thow knowest my
 estate, Cast thyne eye unto the first place. In all
 good causes
 thow shalt work by six in generall
 . The rest are for Depriu
 ation: I meane the next six
 .
 The residue all do serue to the entents and purposes apperteyning unto Kings. But bycause thow shalt
 not be ignorant, what they are, in name
 , they shall shew forth theyr Tables.
 Δ: Than they, spedyly (eche of them uppon the place of theyr standing
 euery table had but one Letter. The first of the first
 ) made a square table: and
 six did go away, and in his table appeared an O,
 &c, and so of the second six, orderly theyr letters appeared in theyr tables: But the Third six, they
 cowred down uppon theyr letters, and were loath to shew them: but at length, did &c: and at the last
 of euery row, they all cam togither &c.
 H: Remember how they stode, when they wer secondly disposed unto thee: They stode first in six
 rows; and next they wer turned into 7.
 711
 I speak
 of the greater number and not of the less. In speaking
 of the greater, I haue comprehended the lesser.712
 Δ: They went euer away toward the713
 hand.
 The third row went of lamenting: being commaunded by the Short robed
 falling into the Globe
 man. All parted in fire,
 . The fifth row did synk into the Globe, euery one in a sundry fyre by him self.
 The sixth fell with smoke down into the Globe.
 EK: Now remayneth onely the man with the Crown H : he made shew with his hands, beckning
 toward E.K., and sayd, I haue told thee, that theyr workmanship, is to gither.
 Theyr names are uppon
 these tables. The first letter, is the Second letter, of the first
 714
 name of the Table.715
 Thow hast 49 names in those Tables. Those names thow hast in former Tables by thee written: in
 that of 7 tymes 7. Confer it with the rownd Table.
 716
 The first letter717
 from the point of his718
 sword, is B. That B signifieth the number of the Bees,
 begynning the 49 names, environing that Circle. In the former Tables thow shalt fynde B.1. B.2. B.3.
 B.4. &c and so to B.49. Those Bees begynne the names of all the powres that haue governed, do
 gouern, and shall gouern.
 The next letter
 hath his circle and numbers going rownd abowt it: which thow shalt fynde in the
 former Tables. The letter standeth in the myddest of euery square, of euery Circle: thowgh some be
 turned upside down
 : Which onely signifyeth that they are Spirits of Destruction, wrath and Indignation
 in Gods Judgment. There are two numbers: that, on the right hand, over the letter, is the number
pertayning to that letter.
 719
 O in the Circumference is the ninthe letter.
 Gather the former Tables to gither, which thow hast made before, conteyning 49, depending
 onely on B. Where thow shalt finde BOBOGEL,
 a name consisting on 7 letters, and so the rest.
 Reade my instructions--Ihaue sayd.720
 as concerning those Tables, and thow shalt fynde the truth of them.--------
Mighty is thy name, O God of Hostes:
 Blessed is thy name, Ô Lord, for euer.
 Δ:Amen.
After 7 of the clok at night. die .
 721
 
H: Lo, here I byd them do, and they do. I haue appointed them, and they are contented. My Charge is
 not of my self, neyther do I speak darkly, obscurely or without a truth, in affirming that I towght thee
 those Tables: For they are from him, which made and created all things: I am from them722 in powre
 and message, under whome I here rule723 and shall do, tyll the ende724 of all things be:725 Ô, Great
 and bowntifull in his liberall mercy: The mercy of him, whome we prayse and laude and sing unto,
 with Joy for euer. Behold thow desyrest, and art syk with desire.726 I am the disposer thowgh not the
 Composer of Gods medicines . Thow desirest to be cumforted and strengthened in thy labors. I
 mynister unto thee The strength of God.
 What I say, is not of my self, neyther that which is sayd to me, is of them selues, but it is sayd of
 him which Liueth for euer.
 These Mysteries hath God lastly, and of his great mercyes, graunted unto thee.727 I haue answered
 thy dowting mynde.
 Thow shalt be glutted, yea filled, yea thow shalt swell and be puffed up with the perfect knowledge
 of Gods Mysteries, in his mercyes. Abuse them not. Be faithfull. Use mercy. God shall enriche thee.
 Banish wrath: yt was the first,728 and is the greatest729 Commaundement.
 I rayng in him, and liue by him which rayngneth and liueth for euer.
 Δ: I pray you make some of these last instructions, more playne, and euident.
 H: I haue shewed thee perfectly. Behold I teache thee agayn. O how mercifull is God that revealeth
 so great secrets to flesh and blud? Thow hast 42 letters. Thy Tables, last, conteyn so many. Euery
 letter is the name particular by him self of the generall actions, being, and doing of these 42, which
 appeared with theyr workmanship. The first, was theyr Prince: and he gouerneth onely730 theestate,
 condition and being, limited by God unto Kings of the earth. The 7 next him,731 are those that are
 Messagers of God his good gifts to those that beleue him, and faithfully serue him: wherof few re ...
 and rayng now frutefull in his sight.732
 Regnat, Regnat, Regnat ô regnat Iniquitas super faciem totius terræ Cor hominis impletum est
 malitia, et nequicijs. Incipit, incipit enim noua illorum potestas, illis non sine re dedita,733 nec dis . .
 .734
 Vide quæso.735 Δ: He pointed down to the people, in the Globe, all being sore and diseased of
 some sore, ulcer, botch, &c.
 H: All the residue of the Angels, (for so they are in dede) ar ministers of God his wrath and
 indignation uppon the Faythless:736 whose myserie is most lamentable. 7 onely, haue 7 letters
 comprehending the dignitie of theyr vocation:737 The rest are particular, not onely in powr, but allso
 in theyr vocation. Like leaves they spring and grow from one branche.
 These words which thow seest in the last Table, some of them unhable to be pronownced, are
 notwithstanding the names of those 7738 which held the fayr and bewtifull Crownes. Which names (as
 I sayd before) do comprehend not onely the powre, but allso the Being of the rest.739 The whole
 Composition is the truth of the words. I will ones more teach. There were 42 that appeared, besides
him, which was theyr prince. The first 7,740 are called by those names, that thow seest, as OFS &c.
 Δ: And so of AVZNILN &c. H : Thow hast sayde.
 There are but 6 names,741 that are in Subjection. I teache breifly. Doost thow not remember the
 Circle and the prick in the myddest: which was on the right hand742 of him, that was theyr Prince?
 That onely representeth 7 in number which being added unto the rest maketh 49. Read the letters. Δ: I
 red OF &c, and he willed me to strike them out.
 H: That is the name of those of the first of the 7.743 which held the Crownes in theyr hands.
 Note: The second line,744 is the name of the second, and so to the ende of the table. 42 letters: 42
 names: 42 persons.
 The first, where his fote stode, is both his Name and Character.745 And so of the second, Third &c.
 Notwithstanding, Generally these are the names, the first 7, the One presupposed, the rest being six
 in order.
 This is the truth, and the some of the Tables. Yt is easy to be understode and perfect.
 Whan thow wilt work for anything apperteyning unto the estate of a good King: Thow must first
 call uppon746 him which is theyr prince. Secondly the ministers of his powre ar Six:747 whose names
 conteyne 7 letters apece: as thy Tables do manifest: by whome in generally, or by any one of them, in
 particularitie, thow shalt work for any Intent or purpose.
 As concerning the letters particularly, they do concern the Names of 42 which 42, in generally, or
 one of them do and can work the destruction, 748 hindrance or annoyance of the estate, Condition or
 degree, as well for body as government, of any Wicked or yll Liuing Prince. In owtward sense, my
 words are true. I speak now of the use of one of the first, that I spake of, or manifested yesterday.
 Sayd I not, and shewed I not, which had the gouernment of Princes?749 For, as it is a Mystery to a
 farder matter, so is it a purpose to a present use. Yf it rule worldly princis, how much more shall it
 work with the Princis of Creation?
 Thow desyrest use, I teache use, and yet the Art is to the furder understanding of all Sciences, that
 are past, present or yet to come.750
 Frute hath a furder vertue than onely in the eating: Gold his furder condition, property, and quality,
 then in melting, or common use. Kings there are in Nature, with Nature, and above Nature.751
 Thow art Dignified.752
 ∆: Yf I wold haue the King of Spayne his hart to be enclined to the purpose I haue in hand, what
 shall I do?
 H: First Cast thyne ey unto the Generall prince,753 Gouernor or Angel that is principall in this
 world.754 [∆ as yet, is BALIGON or Carmara.]
 Secondly consider the circumstances of thy Instruction.755
 Thirdly place my name,756 whome thow hast all ready.
 Fowrthly, the name of him, which was shewed thee yesterday, whose garments were short, and of
 purple.757
 Fifthly, his power,758 with the rest of his six perfect Ministers.759 With those thow shalt work to a
 good ende. All the rest thow mayst use to Gods Glorie. For euery of them shall minister to thy
 necessities. Moreouer, when thow workest, Thy feete must be placed uppon those tables760 which
 thow seest written last comprehending 42 letters, and names. But with Consideration, that the first
 Character, which is the first of the 7, in thy former boke,761 be placed uppon the top of the Table,762
which thow wast, and art, and shalbe commaunded to haue, and use.
 Last of all, the Ring, which was appointed thee: with the Lamine comprehending the forme of thy
 own name: which is to be made in perfect gold, as is affore sayd.763
 Euen as God is iust, his iudgments true, his mercies unspeakable, so are we the true messagers of
 God: and our words are true in his mercy764 for euer.
 Glory, ô Glory be to thee, ô most high God.
 EK: Now commeth Michael and heaveth in his hand out of the stone and sayeth, GOD Bless you.
 H: As concerning the use of these Tables, this is but the first step. Neyther shalt thow practise them
 in vayne.765
 And whereas thow dost use a demaunde, as concerning thy doings to a good intent and purpose:
 and for the prayse and advancement of Gods Glorie, with Philip the Spanish King: I answer that
 whatsoeuer thow shalt speak, do or work, shalbe profitable and accepted,And the ende of it shalbe
 good.766
 Moreouer wheras thow urgest the absence of thy frende, as an excuse for the ring, No excuse can
 preuayle: Neyther canst thow shew the frutes of a iust mynde, but of a faynting stomack with this
 excuse. God hath retorned him, and wilbe mercifull unto you both. Thy Chargis in worldly affayres,
 are not so great, that God cannot Minister help to theyr necessities. Thow shalt be comforted. But
 Respect the world to come767 (1); (whereunto thow art provided) and for what ende (2): and that, in
 (3) what tyme.
 Serue God truely: Serue him iustly. Great Care is to be had with those that meddle with Princis
 affayres. Much more Consideration, with whome thow shalt medle or use any practise. But God hath
 shaddowed 768 thee from destruction. He preserueth his faithfull, and shaddoweth the iust with a
 shield of honor.
 None shall enter into the knowledge of these mysteries769 with thee but this Worker. Thy estate
 with the Prince (now rayngning,770) shall shortly be amended. Her fauor encreased, with the good
 wills of diuerse, that are now, deceyuers.
 Thy hand, shall shortly be theyr help:771 and thow shalt do wunderfull and many benifits (to the
 augmenting of Gods Glorie) for thy Cuntry.Finally, God doth enriche thee with Knowledge: and of thy
 self, hath giuen thee understanding of these worldly vanities.772 He is Mercifull: and we his good
 Creatures,773 neyther haue, do, nor will forget thee. God doth blesse you both: whose Mercy,
 Goodness, and Grace, I pronownce and utter uppon you. I haue sayd:
 ∆: Laus, honor, Gloria, virtus et Imperium,
 Deo opto. Max°.774
 Amen.
 
H: Yf you will stay775 one half howre, I will say farder unto you.
 ∆: We will: by gods leave.
 
∆: After that half howre passed, (being 10½ noctis 
.777
 :) he sayde,
 H: Venito BOBOGEL Rex et princeps
 Nobilitatis776
 Venito cum ministris: Venito (inquam) Venito cum satellitibus tuis munitus
 ∆: I fele: and (by a great thundring noyce, thumming thuming in myne eares) I perceyue the presence
 of some spirituall creature abowt me.
 EK: And I here the thumming.
 H: Behold, Before this work be finished,778
 shalt be trubbled, with 
the Contrarie
 Powres
 (I meane the Manifestation of these Mysteries) thow
 and beyond any accustomed manner. But take heade,779
 they prouoke thee not to work agaynst our Commaundements. Both thy ey and hand
 shall be manifest
 witness of it: well, this is true.
 EK: They that now come in are ioly
 780
 fellows, all trymmed after the manner of Nobilitie now a
 dayes: with gylt rapers, curled heare: and they bragged up and down. BOBOGEL standeth in a blak
 veluet coat
 , and his hose close, rownd hose of veluet upperstoks: ouer layd with gold lace: he hath a
 veluet hat-cap, with a blak feather in it: with a cape on one of his sholders his purse hanging at his
 neck and so put under his gyrdell, his berd long: he had pantofells and pynsons.781
 Company, are 42. 7 of them, are apparayled 
like
 Of these, in
 BOBOGEL: sagely and gravely: All the rest are
 ruffyn like
 . Some, are like to be men and women: for, in the foreparte they semed women, and in the
 bakpart, men, by theyr apparayle, and these were the last 7
 . They daunsed, lept and kissed.
 EK: The stone is brighter, where the sage and graue 7 do stand
 stone is more dark.
 EK: Now they come to a circle
 , and where the other do stand the
 , the sage and the rest, but the sage stand all to gither.
 ∆: The first of the sage, lyft up his hand a loft, and sayde:
 Faciamus secundum voluntatem Dei: Ille Deus noster est verè nobilis
 & æternus.782
 his right fote, and under it appeared an L.
 Then the last .B. and immediately they grew all to gither in a flame of fyre
 He pluckt up
 and so sonk down into the
 former
 Globe.783
 Of the rest the first pluckt up his fote, and there appered an L &c.
784
 ,785
786
 ,787
 ∆: This I fashioned thus after my first dictata penning of my own fantasie:
∆: Then he sayd, Well, I will shew thee more of these things at the next time.
 God be with you: God bless you both.
 ∆: Amen.
 ∆: When shall that next tyme be? A voyce spake, On monday. ∆: Deo soli omnis Honor et Gloria.788
 Amen.
Monday. Nouembris 19: Circiter 1 ã horã a meridie
 789
 ∆: Long after our comming to the stone (abowt half a quarter of an howre) the Cloth of sylence
 remayned drawn: and nothing appeared: but EK heard a far off very pleasant Musik the while.
 H: He seamed to take the cloth away with his hands. After that (abowt 6 minutes), Nothing altered
 or shewed, other than the standing furniture, usually of late appearing there.
 EK: Now come in 7 men with Musicall Instruments: and before them cam one with a veluet
 Coate,790
 and a hat-Cap, with a sword by his syde, and a Cloke or Cape hanging on one sholder: and
 a blak feather in his hat. &c. Afterward cam 42 more, seeming to be very far behynde
 Their Melody sownded very swetely and pleasantly all the while from the begynning.
 The forme of theyr Musicall Instrument:
 the first 7.
 These Musiciens did play, one with an other, iestingly: they bobbed one an other, and than played
 agayn. The 42, which semed a far of, cam nerer
 and nerer, and seamed to bring a rownd thing, like a
 table791
 in theyr hands. The 7 pipers went
 away: and the Man with the Cape hanging on one of his
 sholders (somwhat like a Nobleman) remayned. Then wer they come at hand, the 42 with the rownd
 table
 792
 with fardingales793
 . These seamed to be of two sortes: Of which, the last 7: on the forepart to behold seamed rather
 wemen,
 very much sprowting out, but theyr face had no peculier attyre of
 wemen. The 42 held the circle794
 Circle down
 (or rownd Table) up,over theyr hed, flat wise
 , and stode rownd abowt it.
 H sayd, Tam mali, quam boni, laudant te,
 Deus, Deus, Deus noster.795
 ∆: The letters appeared to EK, and he told me them, and I began to write:
 H: Thow writest in vayne.Thow hast written them allready
 ∆: It is true: I see them now last before noted down.
 H: Loke the eight name
 . Then they layd the
 LEENARB
 .
 in the Tables. [∆: of 49, collected.]. ∆: That eighth is Bobogel. Loke to his
 Character in the great Circle. Loke the second name in the Table
 with 7 angles.
 ∆: That I finde to be Bornogo.
EK: He with the cape on his one sholder, sayeth, Nomen meum est Bobogel:
 796
 And he that is my
 subiect, is Governor of
 the second
 Angle of the 7.797
 Bob: I weare these robes, not in respect of my self, but of my Government. I am the Prince,
 Chief; [EK: He falleth down on his knees and speaketh wordes which I understand not.] yea the onely
 distributer
 , giver, and bestower of Wisdome and Science.
 798
 I weare this apparayle, for that in
 dede, being a Prince I am a Cownsaylor
 799
 to estate and dignitie. All Dignitie and gouernment that is
 not cownsayled by me, and my subiects, is frustrate, voyde, and cleane800
 Those which thow sawest, (being pipers) signifie praters.
 Instruments: which allwayes seame
 801
 without firm grownd.
 with unaccustomed, and not usuall
 to sownd that, which None but I my self, with my subiects, (yea
 not all
 of them, but the fewest) can performe
 . But I am true Philosophie
 . I am true understanding. Oh
 my descending from him which rayngneth, is euen uncomprehensible of the Angells. Neyther do I
 know, my self: But what I think,I utter
 , and What I measure, I am.
 He sayd, Ordinationem Infinitæ potestatis eleuate.802
 EK: Now come Three803
 out of the 42, and layd theyr fingers uppon the three first letters: and,
 804
 ,805
 806
 EK: They ioyne them selues to gither and become, all One Man
 ; most beawtifull to behold: Whose
 hed and to the brest, seamed to be neare to heven. His brest and myddle part, in the ayre: His feete
 seamed to stand on the earth. There cam like a Fire, oute of the Crown of his hed, and to enter into the
 heven, hard, by it: This great high and fayre man sayde,
 Veritas quæsita,
 nostra est.807
 808
 EK: His apparayle is diuided into two halfes: from the crown of
 his hed to his fete. The one half seemed to be most fresh florishing herbes: The other half seemed to
be of diuerse metalls:809
 810
 He sayd (with an Aposiopesis)
 thus,
 and his right fote seamed to be Leade.
 Beatus est qui Lumen capitis mei &c.811
 EK: The rest, all, quake. He sayd farder,
 Unus in Capite, unus in pectore, unus in pedibus.812
 EK: Then stept oute 9, at ones.
 EK: Then the great man returned, or was restored to his former estate of three particular men
 agayn: and they three leaned to the Ientleman813
 sayde,
 Dee, Dee, Dee, at length, but not to late
 .
 814
 with the Cape on his sholder - BOBOGEL - who
 EK: In the place of the former first thre, appeared L E E.
 EK: Of the 9, which stept out, they of the first Ternarie815
 1. Volumus.
 2. Possumus.
 3. Quid non.816
 sayde, eche thus orderly,
 This Ternarie sayd, Faciamus, quæ fecerunt, nam nos Tres sumus Adam
 ; societate.817
 EK: They become One man, as the other before, but a slender and a weak one
 , neyther so high as
 the first, euer laboring or striving with it self to stand up right, but still it bended, bowed, and inclined
 downward, as thowgh it wold fall for feblenes. The Body of this Compownd man, seamed to be of
 Gold glittring. When they retorned to theyr distinct shape: they semed naked and to be sorry, and
 lament: And Bobogel did put them from him, with his sworde, skabbard and all, as it hanged by his
 side. Theyr letters were ----- N A R.
 EK: Then cam the Ternarie—B L N,818
 and orderly they sayd thus,
124
 {1 Ab illo. 
2 Per illum. 
3 Cum illo819
 Bob: Qui caret hijs tribus,820
 [EK: He whispereth to the first Three leaning to him: and with all,
 seeing me muse at the Aposiopesis, he sayd,] No No, Thow shalt not dowt
 [pointing to me.]
 In ecclesia Dei, laborabit in Vanum.821
 EK: This Ternarie of men becam to haue one onely hed, and three bodyes and that one hed was in
 good proportion
 .
 EK: The side of the Diaphonous Globe opened, and this Transformed Ternarie did point into it,
 toward the multitude: and the people had theyr brests naked, and semed to wepe:
 brests, and where they wiped the place becam fayre.
 822
 and to wipe theyr
 EK: This Ternary did seme to stand uppon a triangular stone , and to turn (as a horsmyll doth,
 abowt one axeltree) orderly agaynst, and by, the hole of the Globe so opened. And euery of the three
 bodyes, in theyr turning, as they cam agaynst the open place of the Globe, they extended, and stretch
 out theyr hands toward the people: The first seamed to hold a rownd ball in his hand being little, but
 very fayre white. The second body, his hand had in it, a little sword flamming with fyre. The third had
 a thing like a hatt band of lawn,
 823
 of many cullours, which ever as his turne cam to be agaynst the
 opened hole, he seamed to cast toward the people, and the people did seme to be drawn to him ward,
 by the Casting of it toward them.
 These three bodyes, thowgh they turned contynually, yet did the face or Cowntenance of that One
 Compownd hed, stedyly and
 immoveably regard or loke into the Globe at the forsayd
 H: A wonder to behold the heuen, much more this.
 EK: Now this Ternarie separated it self, and the hole or clyft
 did sit down
 hole therof.
 in the Globe did shut to
 . These three
 by Bobogel.
 H: Sunt semper, et Cibus illorum est unus.824
 ∆: Note: The first Ternarie, they semed to stand leaning to Bobogel. The Third Ternarie was set
 orderly and vicissim,825
 close by Bobogel his feete, one of these betwene two of the first; euer so that
 orderly one of the first, and one of the Third ternarie, one of the first and one of the third; one of the
 first and one of the third.
 EK: Then cam the Ternarie A N A.826
 They sayd, orderly thus,
 1. Ab illo sed.
 2. Cum illo sed,827
 looking on his own belly
 .
 ∆: Then I demaunded of theyr Apparayle: and EK sayd that these were brauer than the former
 Ternary. Bobogel sayd, Aliqui a dignitate, Cæteri talia quia non sunt Digni.828
 to theyr apparayle. Then the third sayd,
 This he sayd, pointing
3. Per illum, Per illum, Per illum,829 with a frowning cowntenance thrusting furth his hand.
 
EK: They ioyne to gither into one hed and three bodyes.The Hole of the Globe opened very wyde
 now. This one Compownd Hed had many eyes, many noses, many mowthes, as thowgh it were a
 Cahos830 of Faces, in one hed, but three bodyes. One of this bodyes had in his hand a little Ball, like
 the other before, very white, but with twynkling brightnes in it. The other two bodyes, theyr hands
 were emptie.
 EK: They turn in order agaynst the Hole of the Globe: But the People regarded them not: but at the
 comming of the hand with the Ball, against the hole, the people loked a little up at it.
 Bob. sayd, Et quia carebant in ardentibus ignis.831
 EK: These, being dissolued into theyr former state, go and sit (with hevy chere) by them that sat
 affar of from BOBOGEL. Theyr apparaill semed to be simple: theyr good apparayle was gone.
 ∆: Here I fownd a certayn error in my writing of the first Notes: which I haue amended in the
 writing of this: But while that error did trubble me, the spirituall Creature sayd these wordes.
 Bob: The Fawt is in EK his remembrance, and not in his will. Note this,
 LEE ar the Three that stand with me.
 NAR are the Three that I reiect.
 BLN are the Thre which are enterlincked with me.
 ANA are the Three that are reiected.832
 
 
Bob. sayd, Omnes naturam ad, Sed, Nôn in illo.833
 EK: The 30 remayning,834 cam all away, and satt betwene Bobogel and the reiected Cumpany: and
 from that Cumpany835 cam onely 7 to the Circle agayn. Euery of these 7, sett theyr feete, eche uppon a
 letter of the Circle, which letters are these,836
 AOIDIAB.
 
EK: They say, In use,837 we are perfect; Misused, we are Monsters. Sumus septem Januæ Naturæ,
 et sui ipsius qui novit Deum.838
 EK: These 7, seme to vanish into wynde, or white smoke, and to fall into the Globe. And the six
 reiected, turn into a black smoke: and the rest of the 30839 semed also converted into black smoke,
 and to fall into the Globe.
 Bob. sayd, In sexto et septimo sunt omnia.840
 EK: The six that were next him, semed to clyng hard and close to Bobogel. (Bob: Behold.) EK:
 They be ioyned all into One body, and becam like the sonne, into the forme of a bowle or Globe: and
 so moved up or rowled up the small narrow race, or line unworne, which remayned higher then the
 chayre, toward the top of the Diaphanous Globe, as before is declared, so that this Princely Noble
 man, and his six adherents [LEE:BLN], in this manner went out of sight.841
H: Formator horum, Secundus842est in Heptagono.843
 They are diuided into the day, as the other wer, before: But wheras the other are chiefly uppon that
 day which you call Monday, so ar these to be used onely on the Sabaoth day.
 Theyr use, is onely thus (obseruing the former order) with the Circle uppon the grownd.844 The first
 six,845 with theyr King and the seale of theyr Prince, taketh place in the whole body of the day: The
 other being 6 tymes six,846 are diuided into the partes of the day as before. The Letters onely where
 they stode, are theyr names and Characters. What doth the heven behold or the earth conteyne,
 that is not (or may be) subdued, formed and made by these. What lerning, grownded uppon
 wisdome, with the excellencies in847 Nature, cannot they manifest? One in heuen they know.
 One and all in Man, they Know.
 One and all in erth, they know.
 Measure heuen by a parte, (my meaning is, by these few). Let God be Glorifyed: His name
 praysed. His Creation848 well taken, and his Creatures, well used.849
 ∆: I craued for some playner Instruction, as concerning the use of the ... and he answered,
 H: Behold: Are thy eyes so blynde? Dost thow see and wilt not see? Thy mynde telleth thee. Thy
 understanding furdereth, and thy Judgment doth establish it. That as thow sawest a Body in three
 places, and of Three Compositions: Thowgh but two in forme, So shall this work haue relation to 1:
 tyme present and present use, to 2: Mysteries far exceding it, And 3: Finally to a purpose and
 intent, wherby the Maiestie, and Name of God shall and may, and of force must appeare, with
 the Apparition of his wonders, and mervayles, yet unhard of. 850
 Dixi.851
 
∆: Than immediately after he began agayne, as followeth,
 H: Venito, veni (inquam) adesto Veni Rex. O Rex, Rex, Rex Aquarum,852 Venito, venito
 inquam. Magna est tua; maior autem mea potestas. Deus noster, restat, regnat, et est, Quod, et
 sicut fuit.853
 EK: Then cam one and sayd,------------ Parati sumus nomen eius Creatoris nostri, nomen, nomen laudare Nomen (inquam)
 Unius nunc et viuentis.
 Obscura sunt hæc animis obscuris. Vera et manifesta Veris et perfectis.
 Ecce adsunt.854 EK: He that sayd this, is as thowgh he were a king, with a Crown on his hed: His
 apparayle was a long robe whitish: But his left arme was very white, and his right arme, black.855
 EK: There cam after this King a Cumpany of 42: and euery one of them had a letter in his
 forhed,and they were 7 in a row, and six, downward.
The King had written in his forhed, BABALEL.856
 The first 7, (begynning from EK his left hand toward his right) had these letters, and the second,
 Thirdth &c had these letters as here appeare.
 H: At the next tyme, more.
 Δ: Omne quod viuit laudet Deum unum et trinum, in omne æuum.857
 EK: The cloth draws.
 Amen.
Nouemb. 20 Tuesday, a meridie circa 2ã.
 
Δ: After a great half howre attending, and diuerse tymes our prayers to god, The black Cloth was
 pulled upward: and so vanished away. H appered sitting in his chayre, and his face toward me: and
 so looking abowt he paused a while: half a quarter of an howr. In the meane space cam one skypping
 lightly, a little boy, in a grene coate, and sayd, He is here, at an ynche.858 Than he sayd, Hark. To me
 he sayd, Ha-sir-ha. Δ: What wilt thow say to me? [Grene Coate:] I am Multin his minister, wilt thow
 any thing with me? I cannot tarry. Δ: Then this skipiak859 espyed a spirituall creature comming, and
 sayd, Ha, ar you there? Δ: And so went out of sight.
 Δ: This was King BABALEL, with a crown of Gold on his hed, his garment whitish, and his
 right sleue on his arme, blak: and the left sleve very white. He seamed to stand uppon water.
 The other 42 cam likewise and stode.
 Bab: Veni princeps860 7 principum qui sunt Aquarum Principes. Ego sum Rex potens et
 mirabilis in aquis: cuius potestas est aquarum visceribus. Princeps iste861 (Δ: pointing to a Prince,
 new come to sight which had a red long robe, and a cerclet of gold on his hed862) est Tertius
 principum in Heptagonon.863 Δ: I sayd Heptagono: he replyed, Heptagonωn,864 and sayd: Verè planè,
 et perspicuè dixi.
 Bab: Mensurasti aquas?865 Befafes answered, Factum est.866
 Δ: I seemed to dowt of some matter here, and Befafes sayd, Thow shalt be answered in any dowt. I
 am thy frende. I haue fauored thee in many things.867 Ph’ers868 haue imagined vaynely of my name.
 For thy loue towards me, Thow shalt know my name. I was with Salomon; I was also (unknown) with
 Scotus.869 I was, in respect of my powr: unknown, in respect of my name. He called me Mares. Since,
 I was not with any. And I preserued thee from the powre of the wicked, when I told thee things of truth
 to come. When I rid thy howse of wycked ones and was with thee in extremities. I was with thee.
 Behold I was with thee throwghly.
 Δ: Then he bad EK Ax me, yf I knew Obelison. Δ: I had to do with Obelison, but by reason of my
 Skryers nawghtynes, I was in dowt what I might credit. Bef: Thow shalt know this for a most manifest
 truth hereafter. I am Obelison, the fifth of the Seuenth,870 which haue the skowrging of Obelison the
 wicked: but not wicked for euer, neyther accursed to the ende. We Angels haue tymes, and our faultes
 are amended.871
 Δ: Shall I Note your name, by Befafes? He answered, My name is so, in dede: The Ægyptians
 called me Obelison in respect of my nature. Δ: I pray you what is the Etymologie of Obelison? Bef: A
 pleasant deliuerer.872
 EK: The former 7, haue Crownes.873 Theyr letters stand betwene theyr feete.874
 E I L O M F O &c.
 
Bef: Thow hast receyued these letters allready.
 EK: The water seameth, contynually to pass ouer these letters.
 Bab: I Gouern uppon Tuesday.
sayde,
 1. EK: The first seuen take the water and throw it up, and it becometh clowdes.
 2. The second throweth it up, and it becommeth hayle and snow
 . One of the first 7
 Behold, Behold, Behold: All the motion
 of the waters, and the saltnes
 assured by us. We giue good success in battayles,
 thereof is æqually
 reduce ships & all manner of vessells that
 flote uppon the seas: Our make is great. Muse not [Δ], For whan the seas are trubbled, with
 the wickednes or uprore of man, our Authoritie giueth victory from him that is most
 Victorious. Fishes and Monsters
 of the sea, yea all that liueth therein, are well known with us.
 Behold we are (generally) the Distributers of Gods Judgments uppon the waters that 
the earth.
 EK: Than stept furth all the rest.
 3. The Third
 seuen sayd, Some of us conduct the waters
 couer
 throwgh the earthe. Other of us, do
 beawtify Nature
 in her Composition. The rest of us ar distributers
 Threasures and the unknown
 substances of the seas.875
 and Deliuerers of the
 Bab: Praysed be God which hath created us, from the begynning with Glory. His Glory be
 augmented.
 876
 EK: Now the 42 diue into the Water and so vanish away: and Befafes, and Babalel also wer
 suddaynly gon.
 H standing up sayd, LO, Thus thow seest the glory of Gods creatures: Whome thow mayst
 use,
 with the consideration of the day, theyr king, theyr Prince, and his Character. The King
 and prince gouern for the whole daye
 .877
 The rest according to the six partes of the day
 .
 Use them, to the glory, prayse, and honor of him, which created them to the Laude and prayse
 of his Maiestie. Δ day is 24 howres. Δ: But whan doth that Day begyn?
 H: Thow shalt be towght the rest.
 H proceded, and sayd, Vitam dedit Deus omnibus Creaturis. Venite Veni Ignis,
 veni Vita
 mortalium (inquam) Venito. Adesdum. Regnat Deus
 Viuentium.878
 EK: Now there commeth a King.
 879
 . Ô Venite. Nam unus ille Regnat, et est Vita
 880
 and hath a Prince
 next him and after them 42, like
 ghostes, or smokes, with out forme: hauing euery of them a little glittring spark of fire in the
 myddest of them.
Verè beatus881
 (sayd this King that now cam.)
 Δ: I pray you to tell me your name.
 King: I am the fowrth King in the Table and the two* and twentyth in number.
 Δ: I understand in the Table of the names collected from the 7 Tables of 49.
 And in those tables taking of the first septenarie, Baligon for the first King; and in the second
 septenarie, Bobogel for the second King, and in the third septenarie, taking Babalel, so accownted the
 third, and in the fowrth septenarie, the first of septenarie is Bynepor, and so accownted the fowrth:
 but accownting euery one from Baligon he is the 22th: and so the fowrth and the two and twentith.
 EK: A Voyce I here, saying, You shall begynne to work agayn, at 6 of the clok next.
 Δ: Omnium bonorum largitori, laus perennis et immensa.882
 Amen.
 Δ: Abowt half a quarter of an howre after 6: we retorned to the work and the cloth was drawn
 away: H sitting in the chayre.
 EK: There appeared a little ronning water very clere
 chrystalline: and on this side the 42 last
 specifyed.
 Bynepor sayd: Lo, [and than he kneled down, and semed to pray, a prety while]. The generall state
 and condition of all things resteth onely and dependeth uppon the distribution, and participation of my
 exalted most especiall and glorified powr
 . My sanctification, glory, and renowne, allthowgh it had
 begynning, cannot, shall not nor will haue ending. He that Measureth, sayd,883
 his workmanship. I am like him, and of him, yet not
 and I was the ende of
 as partaking nor adherent, but distant in One
 degree. The Fire that holdeth, or is, the first Principle of all things in generally,884
 hath his universall
 and unmeasurable powre in the workmanship of my Creation. Visible and Invisible, were not,
 withoute my record. When he [Ipse
 885
 world Without ende.
 Vita suprema,
 Vita superior,
 ] cam,
 I was magnified by his comming, and I am sanctifyed,
et Infima, sunt meis mensurata manibus.886
 Notwithstanding, I am not of my self, Neyther is my
 powre myne owne, Magnified by his name: Behold I dubble life from One,
 unto a thowsand of
 Thowsands: and One thowsand of thowsands, to a number, exceding cownt: I speak in respect of
 mans Capacitie. I am in all and all hath some being by me
 : yet my powre is nothing in respect of his
 powre, which hath sent me. Write this reuerently
 . Note it with Submission:
 byn reuealed, no not in these last tymes, of the second last world
 new people, new kings
 , & new knowledge of a new Gouernment.888
 Vitam tradidit; deditque mihi potestatem 
esse, Viuere, et in perpetuum glorifica... 
Omnibus et ubique.889
 What I speak hath not
 .
 887
 But I begynne new worldes
 To be short,
 As these cannot be comprehended, what they are, with mor...
 So cannot any thing be browght to pas in me, without a living sight, and a perfect mynde
 .
 .890
 I
 Gouern uppon Thursday. For Instruction, the rest as before. Thow shalt work mervaylous
 mervaylously. by my workmanship
 in the highest. To whome891
 (with overshaddowing thy light with
 life, and blessing you both, in his name of whome I am the Image,) I prayse God.
 EK: Now he descendeth into the Globe, and it becam very bright there among the people: which,
 allso, at his comming, seamed to be more cherefull.
 H stode up and moved his hand, aboue his hed, cumpassing with it a loft.892
 Cumpany, with a King,893
 and after him a prince.894
 After that cam a
 The king had a red robe on, and a crown on his
 hed
 . The Prince had a robe of many cullours
 , and on his hed a Cerclet. The Cumpany [42] seemed
 to stand rownd abowt a little hill of Claye. Behynde this Cumpany seamed to stand an
 innumerable multitude of ugly people, a far of:895
 Those which seeme to stand rownd abowt the
 little hill seme to haue in the palmes of theyr hands,
 letters, in order as here appereth.
 Δ: The king spake, Beholde, All the Earth with her bowells and secrets what soeuer, are deliuered
 unto me
 . And what I am there thow mayst know. I am great, But he, in whome I am, is greater then I.
 Unto my
 Prince, (my Subiect) are deliuered the keyes of the Mysteries of the earth. All these
 are Angells that gouern under him:
 whose Gouernment is diuided, as before. Use them, they are
 and shalbe at thy commaundement.
 896
Those that stand afarr
 off are the Spirits of perdition, which kepe earth with
 her Threasor,
 for him &c: and so furth.897
 I haue sayd.
 H, standing up, sayd, His name is the fifth and the 29th: and his Prince his name, the fifth, and the
 23th.898
 Δ: The first name, I understand in Tabula collecta, The second name I understand, for the fifth
 to be in Heptagono and the 23th to be so fownd the same
 , in Tabula collecta.
 H: Venite, ubi nulla quies, sed stridor dentium.899
 EK: Then cam the man agayn, with ugly fyrie flames out of his sides, which was here before, the
 last day.900
 H beckened with his hand unto him, and his coates went to gither, and so couered that
 horrible sight.
 EK: There appeareth a rownd Table, which 42
 hold and toss, all in fyrie flames.
 H: Write quickly, thow [EK] canst not behold it.
 EK: The first seameth to be a King
 901
 Lo I gouern (as I902
 with a crown on his hed, and the &c.
 haue sayd before) All enchanters, Coniurers,
 witches, & Wicked spirites
 that
 are hated of God, and included for euer, in owteward darknes (except a few which remayn in a
 second payne, which gape and grone for the mercies of God, and haue tyme of
 Joye, whose measures
 I haue, and kepe accownt of)
 are all at my government. 903
 By me, thow shalt cast oute the powre of
 all wicked spirits. By me thow shalt know the doings and practises of euill men
 may be spoken or uttred to man.
 , and more then
 Blessed be his name, whose Glory is euerlasting fode to the Just, and Sempiternall904
 Wicked.
 H: The 36the name, is the King his name,
 905
 And his Prince his name.906
 8 to the
 is the last [saue one]
 written in the Heptagonon.907
H: Venite vos qui sub mea estis potestate.908
 EK: Then cam bright People
 42: And besides these, all the Ayre swarmeth
 with creatures.
 Theyr letters are in theyr forheds: these stand in a circle: they take the letters from theyr
 forheds, and set them in a Circle.909
 H: Of these, I am Gouernor my self
 .910
 Loke what may be wrowght, in all aëriall Actions
 tyme and day, is Fri
 day. The day of the last before, is Saterday. The day of the Fifth is Wensday.
 H: Behold,
 I haue towght thee. His name be blessed who raigneth and liueth for euer.
 Δ: Amen, Amen, Amen.
 911
 Behold I am of tyme present
 . I am of the last Ternarie.
 , I can distribute and bestow at my pleasure: my
 H: I will answer thee of all Dowtes herein (being demaunded of me) to morrow. For, so I call it, for
 thy sake: Not, for that, it is so to me.
 Δ: So he went away.
 Δ: Then cam URIEL and MICHAEL, and an other (I think RAPHAEL) and the chayre and table
 appered, as in the first boke hath byn shewed: And also H had his peculier chayre, at his tymes of
 teaching me.
 MICHAEL (sayd,912
 ) Mercifull is our God, and glorious is his name Which chuseth his
 creatures, according to his own Secret Judgment and good pleasure.
 This Arte is the first part of
 a Threefold Art,
 WORLDE
 , 2. the GOVERNMENT
 913
 ioyning Man (with the Knowledge of 1. the
 of his Creatures, and 3. the SIGHT
 Unto him (Ô, I say) unto him; which is 
Strength, Medicine, and Mercie914
 to those that feare him: 
Amen.
 of his Maiestie.):
 Δ: Gloria, laus, honor, et perennis Jubilatio, sit Deo nostro Omnipotenti, Optimo,
Maximoque.915
 Amen.
 Δ: Note, Remember, and enquire what it meaneth, that no Mention is made of Bralges the Prince, Nor
 of Blumaza his king in this Treatise, being a certayn Repetition of the Heptagonum stellare, going next
 before.916
Wensday: Nouemb 21. hora 7 a meridie
 :917
 with a white cloth
 Δ: There appered the first table, covered with a cloth of silk changeable cullour red and
 grene
 under it: all hanging very low. The first Chayre allso: wherein Michael
 used to sit. And H did appere likewise, and his peculier chayre
 :918
 Diaphanous Globe, and the people or world in it, did not now appere
 and he standing by it. But the
 , and, bycause no voyce or word
 cam from those spirituall creatures, yet: I declared that I did attend theyr pleasure first, as a scholer
 comming in the presence of his Master, and whan they had sayd those things which were for us first,
 (at this instant) to lerne, that than, I wold move some dowtes of the premisses, as I was yesterday
 advised to do. H, he held up his rod (which had two portions or partes of it black and one, red): and
 sayde,
 Ô quanta est hõis infirmitas et Corruptio, qui Angelis, idque suis bonis, fidem autem Deo, vix
 habet? Omnia mundana, fæces: Mundi Corruptiones in se habent: Deus noster, Deus noster,
 Deus (inquam) ille noster verus, cum Veris suis angelis, eique919
 inseruientibus Semper verus est.
 Pete quæ vis? Dixi: et quod dixi, obumbratum est veritate, iusticia et perfectione.920
 Ecce, (Δ: holding up the rod921
 ).
 Hîc (Δ: pointing to the ende of the rod).
 Per hoc (Δ: pointing to the middle of it). Et a Mensurae fine, nos nostramque mensurabis
 potestatem. Age (inquam) Quid vis?922
 Δ: I, than, of the premisses used a little discourse: how they might parabolically,923
 betoken other
 more profownd matter, and litterally other: yet what sense so euer the premisses had, that theyr first
 rudiments and Text was to be made somwhat playner to me, then yet they were: bycause I dowted as
 well of the understanding of some of that, I had written, as allso of mys writing: eyther throwgh EK
 his mys reporting to me matter shewed to him, or by my mys-hering or negligent writing &c. To some
 part therof he sayd these words ensuing.
H: In umbra mortis non est æqualitas. Obscurum enim nihil est quod per illum [EK] recepisti.
 Age.924
 H: Thow hast a work of three proportions in esse;925 of 7 in forme: which is of it self diuided
 by a number septenarie, of the course, estate and determination of things aboue, things next,
 and things below: which, of it self is pure perfect and without blemish.926 Notwithstanding I will
 answer thee thus.
 The 7 Kings are orderly conteyned in the first of the Seuens diuided in generall numbers: whose
 names are expressed; published and perfectly formed within the first grownd and fowndacion of this
 Threefold work.927 The kings I meane with theyr Characters,928 and the names of theyr 7 liuing and
 semper adherent Ministers:929 Whose names thow mayst see not onely there written, but openly, and
 most playnely, truely, and sincerely spoken of before:930 as, by due examination of thy bokes thow
 shalt manifestly perceyue. Notwithstanding, as euery king, in his Maiestie, doth comprehend the
 dignitie of his whole seat and estate, so I of my self being the First, haue the gouernment of my self
 perfectly, as a mysterie known unto my self: which is a thing unlawfull to be published unto man and
 lawfull931 in respect of the charge committed unto us: and the slender Dignification of mans frayle
 estate; Which thow mayst see in the Heptagonon: where, there wanteth a name: the rest of the Cr... the
 utter Circumference of the Globe, are the Six Kings Or . . . following: according as they are written in
 the Mysteries of the . . . which do begynne the932 Powres, with theyr Prince,933 and theyr Characters
 orderly taken, by and uppon the Heptagonon . . .
 Ô God, how easy is this first understanding. Thow hast byn told perfectly, playnely and
 absolutely, not onely the Condition dignitie. and estate of all things that God hath framed: But
 allso withall, thow wart deliuered the most perfect forme and use of them.934
 But this will I tell thee (to the intent thow shalt know: and forby cause I wold not, thow sholdest be
 ignorant in true Wisdome) that those Six Names in and uppon the Heptagonum are Collected, do
 growe and are gathered from the names in generally aforesayd.935
 Take the Names, I will teache thee to know them, which els, [without] by direction936 thow canst
 not fynde.
 
Loke thy First Table. I am called BALIGON with men. Thow hast Noted my name (which is
 secret) among the Angels,937 begynning with this letter M, consisting of 7 letters, the last being
 an A.
 
I am called MARMARA: but otherwise CARMARA : but that letter M, shall not be expressed, &c.
 Thow seest, next, BOBOGEL, He it is that is the Second King. Thow seest the name BORNOGO,
 to be the first938 uppon the Heptagonum: it is his Prince. And therfore I did Note him with a Coronet,
 and not with a Crown: nay rather, but with a Cerclet abowt his hed. &c939
Δ: I concluded (of his instruction) the Kings and theyr Princes, theyr names to be thus lerned out of
 the Table Collected of 49, names, it is to weete,
 941
 * Addendo 7 - fit hic processus. Ergo addendo 7, numero 43, proueniet 50: numerus: major 40
 quam 49 per .1. qui respicere pt illum: primum Regem Baligon.942
 ** addendo 7, fit processus hic g°. Si 7 addantur numero 37: inde emerget 44. pro proximo
 principe.943
and farder he sayd, The Characters of Kings, are in the Globe:
 944
 and of the Princis in the
 Heptagonon
 .
 Δ: Note: from the on the last side, untyll these words finished, he was out of sight: and
 whan he had ended these words, he cam in sight agayn: and browght a thing in his hand like a
 sterre: or Heptagonum.
 H: Beholde. Euery one of these Princis hath
 945
 Table
 which begynneth, as I will tell thee.
 his peculier Table.
 Thow hast Noted the First
 1. 2: In BOBOGEL, that O, (the second letter) is the first of the Table OESNGLE and the second
 of Befafes, is the second, and the thirdth of the third: and the fowrth of the fowrth and the fifth
 of the fifth, and the sixth of the sixth, and E, (in the seuenth. Bnagole is the seuenth and last of
 this first seuen of this first
 Table: accownted the first.
 ¶ AVZHILN.
 The second seuen by like order is gathered of Babalel, and the rest of his septenarie. And
 so furth, to the ende downward as thow didst before &c.
 2. 3: In the second Table; L (the first letter therof) is out of Bobogel his last letter, the second
 letter, is the sixth of Befafes; the third, is the fifth of Basmelo &c and so you haue
 LEENARB.947
 For the rest kepe that order downward to the ende of the last Name Bamnode.
 Tranversim, quasi retrograde.948
 3. 4: In the Third, begyn at the lower949
 letter [of the latter
 seven: and so upward, toward the right951
 950
 worde
 ] of the last of the second
 hand: Δ: The last word is of second seven is
 Bnagole: the last letter therof is e: which is the first of this Third Table: and the i, in Brisfli, is
 the second, and the 1 in Branglo the thirdth, and than so furth, upward, overthwart, toward the
 left hand: till ye come to Bobogel, his second letter, being O. Then to N in Bonefor: e in
 Bermale: o in Bragiop. &c.
 4. 5: For the Fowrth, loke, Bobogel. Then loke to this fowrth Table the first B of the Table is the
 first B of Bobogel. The second B of this Table, is the B of Befafes. The third letter is a, the
 second letter of Basmelo. The fowrth letter, R
 , is the thirdth of Bernole. The fifth is the fowrth
 of Branglo. The sixth, is the fifth of Brisfli. The seuenth is the sixth of Bnagole. And so in to
 the next sevens downward orderly for the rest of the table.
 5. 6: The Fifth begynneth from Bnagole upward: begynning at the last letter being e: and then
 upward croswise exactly tyll the B of Bobogel. And so of the next seuen, for the next:
 begynning at the n of Bonefon, and so furth.
 6. 7: In the sixth, (the Infernall
 Table) The first is B of Bobogel, The second is A of the 15th: The
 third is N of the 22th: the fowrth, is the fowrth of the 29: The fifth of the 36: the sixth of the
 43: and the seuenth of the 49: being E in Bamnode, two letters being taken in that last
 septenarie. The second septenarie begynneth at the first of the 15th, the second at the second of
 the 22th, (being Y), the third at the thirdth of the 29th, then the 4th of the 30th,: the 5th of the
 43th.
 7. 1: The Seuenth: the first A, is the A, of Baligon, and so downward all the second letters of the
7 kings:
 Then all the third letters, then all the fowrth letters, then all the fifth letters, then all
 the sixth letters only and finally the seventh and last letters of the first names of the
 Septenaries.
 Δ: Note, this Table is made all of Kingly substance
 Δ: Now I trust I understand (meterly well,952
 &c.
 ) the making of the 7 Tables. I wold gladly here som
 instruction of the great Circular table (which you call the Globe) which hath the Kn... with theyr
 Characters; and so within, 7 tymes 7, seuen tymes . . . 7 tymes 6, seuen tymes furnished with letters
 and numbers . . . sorts.
 H: That doth apperteyn to an other tyme.
 953
 EK: The Cloth was lett down, and the stone did yield voyce but nothing visible but the forsayd blak
 cloth.
 H: One thing is yet wanting: a mete receptacle
 &c. There is yet wanting a stone
 &c. One
 there is, most excellent, hid in the secret of the depth &c. In the uttermost part of the Roman
 Possession.
 H: Write. All lawd, Glorie and honor be unto him, which rayneth for euer. Amen. Be of good
 Cumfort.
 Lo, the mighty hand of God is uppon thee.
 Thow shalt haue it. Thow shalt haue it, Thow shalt haue it. Dost thow see, loke and styr not from
 thy place: EK pointed toward it.
 Δ: I see it not.
 H: It is sanctified, blessed, and . . . . . . . . . . . . . .954
 in the use of his Creatures.
 Thow shalt preuayle with it, with Kings, and with all Creatures of the world: Whose beauty
 (in vertue) shall be more worth then the Kingdomes of the earth.
 Loke, if thow see it: But styr not, for the Angel of his powre is present.
 EK loked toward my west wyndow, and saw there first uppon the matts by my bokes a thing, (to his
 thinking) as bigg as an egg: most bright, clere, and glorious: and an angel
 of the heyth of a little chylde
 holding up the same thing
 in his hand toward me: and that Angel had a fyrey sword
 in his hand &c.955
 H: Go toward it; and take it up.
 Δ: I went toward the place, which EK pointed to: and tyll I cam within two fote of it, I saw
 nothing: and then I saw like a shaddow on the grownd or matts hard by my bokes under the west
 wyndow. The shaddow was rowndysh, and less then the palm of my hand. I put my hand down uppon
 it, and I felt a thing cold and hard: which, (taking up, I) perceyued to be the stone before mentioned.956
 H: Kepe it sincerely.
 Veritas in veritate: Deus in Deo, Unus in uno est.957
 Let no mortall hand towche it but thyne owner
 958
 Amen.
 Prayse God.
 Δ: Illi qui venturus est Indicare Speculum per ignem sit omnis honor, laus, et gloria, in sempiterna
 sæcula.959
Liber Mysteriorum Quintus
 1583 Martij 23.
 Liber 6us. 
Liber 7us960
 Jesus †.
Anno 1583 Martij 23. Saterday a meridie.
 Δ: EK being come, with Mr John Husey of Blokley. (on the 22 day of marche) and EK being desirous
 to understand somwhat of our spirituall frendes as concerning such matter as had falln out very
 strange to him and Mr Husey: abowt a certayne moniment of a boke and a
 skroll fownd in Northwik
 hill
 961
 by the direction and leading of such a spirituall Creature, as when they had gotten the same,
 and they endeuored by art to
 haue some exposition of the skroll, written in strange characters, they
 wer willed to repayre to me, and there they shold be answered:
 &c. which thing now they did.962
 Being therfor now ready to receyue instructions of our frendes, there appered in the stone One,963
 in a foles cote, going abowt a clowde, which appered first in the stone. I charged him if he were the
 enemy of God
 to depart. He tore his clothes all, and appeared all hery
 iniusticæ meæ.964
 Δ: Glorifie God and depart. He sayd, Feci, Nam decedo.965
 under: and sayd, Penetrasti vim
 He went away as it had byn a bunsh of
 fethers pulld in peces. The Clowd wexed bigger, and went all to the right hand. At length the Table
 appeared, But the Chayre seamed not to be of the same sort it was, but more Glorious. There
 appeared three, of which, two went away, and one tarryed behynde.
 He sayd-----------Auete.
 Verum est, et incredibile.966
 He kneeled to the Chayre and spake, but his words could not be
 discerned.
 Via, veritas, et virtus, unum sunt: et multiplex et admirabilis est eius magnitudo: Et venit ab ore tuo
 flatus, (et vitam habet) quo viuunt omnia, nutu, et illuminatione tua.
 Aue Verbum, Aue rerum forma
 trix967
 et mensura eorum quæ fuerunt, sunt, et erunt: Illuminasti
 oculos creaturarum monimentis et admonitionibus planis: Vita bonis, mors autem impijs, et a
 consideratione tua abiectis. Quanta et innumerabiliæ sunt (Iustitia) dona tua? O remiges varpax
 . Kyrie
 eleyson.968
 Δ: All this he sayd Kneeling to the chayre; and then he rose; and I sayde, O beata Trinitas, mitte
 lucem et veritatem tuam, ut ipam me ducant ad montem sanctum. et ad tabernacula tua.
 Me: Ubi, non increduli.
 Δ: Nos non sumus increduli: sed spes nostra viuit æterna et Omnipotens est Veritas, fons vitæ.
 Me: Adduxi vobis aquam
 969
 ex eodem
 riuulo. Medicina verò est imperfectionibus et necessitatibus
 vestris. Intelligite nunc et quis sum, et quibus ornatus. Bibite, et accipite Ossibus vestris pinguedinen.
 Multæ namque sunt mortalium imperfectiones. habeo, et habebitis: Adduxi, et videbiter. Verbum est
 Lumen illud quo omnis imperfectio aboletur. Credentes introibu... in Sanctum eius. vbi potio, et
 Medicina
 sempiterna.970
 Cogitasti verè. Sum etiam, et Credas. Nam veritate et iustitia, vera et perfecta sunt verba et
 disciplina eius.971
 What willt thow?
 Δ: Recte sapere.972
 Me: Thow hast it
 .
 Δ: I perceyue it not otherwise, then that I beleue, it may be the decree of the highest.
 Δ: He shewed a Tree, and a great deale of water at the roote or botom of it: and he sayd, Me: Hath
 this Tree, now, any frute?
in thee
 Δ: I see it not. But the skryer may say.
 EK: The water commeth up the tree, and it swelleth, and it hath frute, great, fayre, and red.
 Me: Lo I eate of it my self, and it lighteth the harts of those that are chosen. [He semeth to eate.] So
 is it
 .
 Δ: Ecce seruus Domini, fiat Decretum eius in me (iuxta misericordiam eius) de me
 pronunciatum.973
 Me: Go and thow shallt receyue. Tary, and you shall receyue slepe, and you shall see, But
 watch, and your eyes shall be fully opened. One thing, which is the grownd and element of thy
 desyre, is allredy perfyted.
 974
 Yt seemeth that you beleue not.
 euer. For he shall, and will
 975
 But I haue sayde, as he hath sayd and his worde shall endure for
 performe it, for he liueth for euer. Oute of Seuen thow hast byn
 instructed most perfectly of the lesser part,
 976
 the rest
 I haue browght you, in this my vessell; A
 medicine sufficient to extinguish and quenche oute the enemy, to our
 felicitie: Muse not, thowgh I say
 ours
 : for we all liue in tasting of this liquor. His Hed is a marble stone.977
 His hart is the blud of a
 dragon. His leggs are the tops of the Northen Mowntaynes. His eyes are bright, and his face of many
 Cullours, eche substance amongst the turmoyle and trubble of nothing.
 For as then, they were Nothing:
 Had a forme applyable and necessary according to theyr quantitie and secret qualitie. The heuens are
 lightened by his two eyes: wherof the one sight is brighter then the other. Aboue and in him self which
 is by him self, and in no other, is this great and vertuous fowntayne. In nature Intel
 lectuall he hath
 watred the plantes of her beauty, and stroked up the garments of her felicitie. In her darkest members
 entreth in the taste and sauour of this percing Medicine; reviving and recalling all things past present
 and to come, unto theyr lively and dignified perfection. My words ar sentences. My sentences,
 wisdome; My wisdome the ende in my message of all things. Mighty and glorious is the Vertue of it,
 whose springs do endure, and are clere for euer: Whose name be blessed.
 Δ: Amen. I respect the tyme. God be with you.
Martij 24. Sonday: morning abowt 8.
 Δ: The Table appeared, and the Chayre: and he who appeared yesterday: kneeling or rather lying
 prostrate on his face, as if he were a slepe: He lay a long while.
 A thing like a lambs hed did seeme to lik him, and then he rose and wiped his face, as thowgh he
 had wept.
 Me, he sayd, Signa sunt hæc vobis, humilitatis et pænitentiæ; quæ facio omnia, vestra, non mea
 sunt
 .978
 Laudetur verbum eius in Cælo, laudetur etiam et in terris: Investigate potentiam in humilitate
 loquelæ eius, et videbitis gloriam frontis eius. Misericors namque et omnipotens est gloria virtutis
 eius. Vana sunt, corruptionibus suis; Necessaria verò Necessitatibus vestris. Nam fecit omnia ad
 laudem eius: et opera manuum suarum (Ecce) collaudant lumen vultus eius. Adinvicem diligite
 Humilitate viuite. Medicina verò mea (quæ eius est) omnia resanabit
 980
 .
 979
 The feldes wither without the drops of his Mercie. Mans Memorie is dull, unleast it taste of the
 sprinkling of this vessell. [EK: He hath a great thing under his gown.]
 Nature and reason
 haue disputed profowndly and truely by the sauour hereof: it perceth therfore
 depely. But understanding and reason haue eleuated and lifted up the dignitie and worthynes of Mans
 Memorie, by taste hereof. The Immeasurable and unspeakable begynnings (yea with the begynner and
 Principle therof), are exactly (after a sort) and perfectly known of them. Yt hath towght from the earth
 unto the heauens: from the heven, unto his seat: from his seate, into his Diuinitie. From his Diuinitie, a
 Capable measuring of his unmeasurable mercies. It is true, most true, and true shalbe for euer. That
 from the lowest grass to the highest tree, [from] the smallest valley, to the greatest mowntayn; yea,
 euen in the distinction, betwixt light and darknes: the measure whereof is the deapest: yea (I say) it
 hath towght a Iudgment. When he axed wisdome, and forsoke the world, he receyued it: and it
 measured the things of the world. Great are the inward eyes, and greater are the meanes, which
 deliuer things subiect or obiect unto them.
 Finally it procedeth from him, that procedeth: Whereunto the first was formed, 
after
 .
 Whose fote slipping hath dasshed his hed in peces, and it becam dark: untill agayn, the Medecine
 which I haue browght, revived his slombring. Hereby, he, not onely knew all
 , and not 
things,981
 like
 but the
 measure and true use therof
 . Yf the body haue no inward fyre, it presently falleth. Euery Organ is
 voyde of qualitie, unleast a meane
 be adiected. So, is all that thow hast before, more wonderfull, then,
 as yet, profitable
 , unleast thow be directed
 and led-in unto the true use and order of the same.
 are my words, and great is thy thowght: Greater shalbe the ende of these Gods Mercies.
 New worlds, shall spring of these.
 New manners: strange men: The true light, and thorny path,
 982
 Great
 openly seen. All things in one, and yet,
 this is but a vision.
 Wonderfull and great are the purposes of him, whose Medicine I carry. I haue
 sayde.
 Δ: He lay down agayn, a good while, and at length he rose: after my long prayer and confession
 made to god, and my discourse to him, &c.
 EK: He plucketh out a boke: all the leaves are, as thowgh they were gold, and it semeth written
 with blud, not dry
 .
 Δ: He sayd, Cownt. Δ: He turned ouer the leaves, but EK could not well cownt them: whereuppon
983
 he sayd: I will raze out
 thy dulnes, and at length, make thee clere.
 EK: There are 48 leaves. Me: Et finis est.984
 there are iust so many
 One is one;
 . These haue so many names,
 neyther is, was or shalbe known
 of the so many Mysteries, that went
 is the second and the Third: The Third and the last.985
 : And yet
 before
 . This
 This is the measure of the whole.
 Ô what is man, that is worthy to know these Secrets? Heavy are his Wickednesses, Mighty is his
 synne. These shallt thow know: These shall you use.
 986
 The One is a Master, the other is a Minister.
 The One, is a hand, the other is a finger: Grutch not. Neyther let wickednes tempt you: loue togither.
 Be contented with your calling: For, all beasts see not a like: yet are they all Creatures: Vessels, not
 of one bignes, yet are they all full. Both, most sufficient,
 but according to fayth,
 Conscience. Yet must there be a third;
 and understanding of
 whom, God doth not yet chuse. The tyme shalbe short: the
 matter great, the ende greater. Ask now what thow wilt and he shall answer thee.
 EK: There appered one like my self laying his two armes, one, on EK his sholder: and the other on
 a man his sholder, unknown to us, but somwhat like to Mr Adrian Gilbert,987
 &c.
 Δ: Ys it your will to procede in this matter, you now haue begonne withall: or will you of these
 characters and places of Threasor hid (here portrayled by picture), say any thing?
 Me: As thow wilt. Δ: As the will of God is, so will I. The will of God you know, better than I.
 Me: The æternallliquor be uppon you. Ones more, what wilt thow?
 Δ: I do prefer the heuenly liquor, before all things, and do desire to be bedewed, with the
 supercælestiall dew thereof.
 Me: Consider the former tree.
 Δ: The tre with the water at the fote?
 Me: Thow hast sayd.
 His growing powre,
 bringeth furth
 Act.988
 Remember the Prince and Subiects
 ,
 which haue powre (as is told thee) of Erthly Bowels (The thing there, which you desire of me,
 is no parte of my charge), Call him
 : It is his office: for by his ministers it hath byn shewed
 .989
 God
 doth impart his mercy, to those he loueth, in all necessitie: whether of the one, or of the other, where it
 is dew: I leave it: his Office is to speak it. Notwithstanding liue in truth and humilitie: Use God his
 Creatures to his glorie,
 and thy Necessitie, the proffit of thy own lymms, and cutting out of all Canker
 and rotten flesh. Thow understandest: For thy eyes shalbe opened
 . Amen.
 EK: He spreddeth his hands abroade, and goeth away, and putteth his boke in his bosom as he
 goeth.
 Δ: Gloria patri.990
 &c. Amen.
Martij 26. hor. 10 ante Meridiem.
 
First, appered a clowd: and that vanished away: Three cam in, they made Cursy to the chayre: and
 two went away. Then the third which remayned, lay down on the grownd, as before. There cam like a
 lambs hed,991 and licked him. He sayd then, as followeth: being stand up,
 Magna sunt, Alla quæ dixisti,992 making cursy to the chayre. There was a sownd hard before. After
 a while he sayd,
 Me: Thy Kingdom is established in eternitie. Thy hands are invisible, and no man can distinguish
 thy mercies. I attend your desire.
 Δ: As concerning the Characters, and shew of the ten places, we are desirous to know whyther we
 may require now Bnaspol, or other under him, to say unto us, that, which may content us, for the Case
 as it standeth with us.
 Me: The buylder of the Temple was riche, before it was adorned. With Wisdome, cam the
 Instruments necessarie for mans worldly use. He hideth no light from those he loveth: neyther shutteth
 up his tents from such as seke him. Yf one be great, Ô how small is the other? How small therfore is
 the mynde, and how much weakened that desireth those trifles? But as the smallest thing is feefest to
 the smallest use, so is the existimation of things of light accownt, necessary for the lightnes and
 vanitie of this world. A part (Notwithstanding) may beawtify the whole, and a small thing, may cure a
 great infirmitie. I told thee before, that my fete are not placed uppon such brittle and crakling sand,
 neyther are my lipps occupyed with the vanitie of nothing. I will not993manifest in any point, the thing
 which thow desyrest, neyther is it any part of my charge.
 I haue byn thy scholemaster and director to the Sterne, to rule the reason therof, with those, which
 can reache the Iudgment therof. All those before spoken of, are subiect to thy call.994 This vessell at
 all tymes they greatly accept. Yet haue they times and seasons:995 When order breaketh in her self, the
 labor is in vayne. Euery thing is for and to an ende. Of frendeship, at any time,996 thow mayst see
 them, and Know what thow willt.
 But One thing differeth, the Ende, and the Begynning. That onely, is the El, rod, or measure which
 all ready is deliuered. The stroke of which, bringeth all things, in theyr degree, to an ende: as far as
 the seven (magnificencie of euery Seuen) stretcheth out it self.
 Euery one, (to be short) shall at all times and seasons,997 shew thee direction in any thing. But, SO,
 thow canst not use them, in the determina tion, and full ende of euery practise. It is one thing to
 affectionate; and an other to effect. What thow seest, is true, and to a former998 commoditie: For, with
 Furderance, euery thing in Nature is ayded.
 Δ: --
Reade ouer that, which now, lastly, I declared: Then see, if you be not answered.
 Δ: --
Therfore mayst thow know, what that is, allthowgh thow do not, yet, or presently, put it in practise,
 by him, whose Charge it is, to deliuer it.999
 Δ: Of your so greatly commended liquor I am desirous to haue farder understanding.
 Me: What liquor is more liuely then the dew of Truth, proceding from a fowntayn most swete and
 delectable? Euen that veritie which thy mowth hath preached of.1000 What water recreateth more, or
cooleth ignorance deeper than the knowledg of our Celestiall speche?
 1001
 your voyces are but fayned:
 shaddows of the wordes and voyces that substantially do comprehend euery substance in his kinde.
 The things which you do loke on, bycause you see them not in dede, you allso do name them amysse:
 you are confownded, for your offenses: and dispersed for your punishments: But we are all one, and
 are fully understanding. We open the eare, and the passage thereof, from the sonne in the morning to
 the sonne at night. Distance is nothing with us, unleast it be the distance, which separateth the wicked
 from his mercy. Secrets there are none, but that buried are in the shaddow of mans Sowle.
 We see all things: and Nothing is hid from us: respecting our Creation
 . The waters shall stand, if
 they here theyr own speche.
 thunder.
 The heuens shall move, and shew them selues, when they know theyr
 Hell shall tremble, whan they know what is spoken
 to them.1002
 man euer was, is, or shall be (excepted where I except) that euer shall
 understand, hath or doth
 the least part (ô it is incomprehensible) of this Vessel. He named all things
 are so in dede, and shalbe so for euer.
 Thow shallt speak with us
 ;1004
 And we will be spoken with, of thee
 The first1003
 excepted, No
 know
 (which knew it) and they
 . Three they are excepted,
 which taken from amongst you, as they were, do yet speak with us, which are provided in the three
 laws to destroy
 that Monstre
 .46 They are fed with cælestiall fode, and they, talking, speak all
 understanding. This it is, I take God, (onely him that created me) to recorde. 
wold I not: And may be undetermined. yf you break his
 It is determined
 : else
 commaundements
 .47
 A Stone it is that perceth48 down all things before it; and kepeth them under him, as the heuens do a
 clowde. What art thow, (O god,) and how mighty ar the drops of thy mercy, that preparedst man
 before to examin thy Mysteries? The plagues of those that plagued them selues, shall fall uppon you,
 yf you transgress
 49one iote of your eyesight
 :
 For, What you desire, is graunted: and if you loue him, you shall endure for euer
 . I am not as a
 clowde, sheuered50 with the wynde: nor as a garment, that waxeth olde, and torn in peces: But I am
 for euer (bycause my message is such) and my truth, shall endure for euer.
 Beholde, Beholde, yea let heven and earth behold: For with this, they were created: and it 
voyce and speche of him
 , which proceded from the first
 , and is the first
 exalted in his own horn of honor.
 is the
 ; whose glorious name be
 51 Lo, this it is. [EK: He sheweth a boke, as he did before all gold.]
 And it is truth; Whose truth shall endure for euer.
 EK: The leaues of the boke, are all lyned: full of square places, and those square places haue
 characters in them, some more then other:, and they all written with cullour, like blud, not yet dry.1005
 49 square spaces, euery way, were on euery leaf, which made in all .2401. square places. He wiped
 his finger on the top of the Table, and there cam out aboue the Table certayn Characters1006
 enclosed
 in no lines: but standing by them selues, and points betwene them. He pointed orderly to them with his
 finger, and loked toward the skryer at euery pointing.
Me: Note what they are.
 Δ: They are Noted.
 EK: He toke from under the Table,
 a thing like a great globe, and set that in the chayre: and uppon
 that Globe, layd the boke. He pointeth to the characters: and cownteth them with his finger, being 21,
 and begynning from the right hand, toward the left. He putteth-off the Crown of gold, from his hed:
 and layeth it, on the Table. His here appereth yellow. He maketh cursy: and from under the Table
 taketh a rod
 of gold in his hand, being diuided into three distinctions.1007
 He putteth the ende of the
 rod on the first of the Characters, and sayeth, Pa: and there appered in english, or latin letters, Pa
 sayd, veh
 : and there appered veh in writing: Then Ged:
 : He
 and after that he sayd, Unus Unus Unus,
 Magnus, Magnus, Magnus, es, 1008
 Then or
 Then he pointed to an other, and sayd Gal,
 [the voyce seemed Orh.] Then un
 Grakpha, in the throte.] Then Tal
 [the sownd semed und.
 , [in sownd stall or xtall.] Then gon
 it were in the nose.] Then ur,
 [in sownd our
 or ourh.
 ] Than mals,
 and there appeared Gal:
 ] Then Graph: [The sownd as
 . Then na
 [but in sownd Nach
 as
 [in sownd machls.] Then Ger, [in
 sownd, gierh.] Then drux, [in sownd drovx.] Then Pal: the p being sownded remissly. Then med.
 He
 sayd, Magna est gloria eius.1009
 Ceph
 , sownded like Keph, But before that, was Don:
 Then van, Fam,
 Then Gisg.
Then he lay down before it: and there cam two lines and parted the 21 letters into 3 partes, eche
 being of 7. He sayd, Numerus ô perfectissimus, Unus et Trinus. Gloria tibi, 1010
 Amen.
 Then he put on his Crown, and pluckt a black veale before all in the Chayre. He sayd, Remember to
 lerne those names without boke, and to know them.

Martij 26. a meridie + Tuesday hor. 5½
 First there was a great noyce of harmony, hard. There appeared two great Armies fighting, and
 much bludshed on both sides.1011
 One Captaine is in red harness, the Contrary Captayn, is white and
 grene. There appered Flags with a croked tree, or like a ragged staff, or cudgell, in them: and they
 were on the red Capitayns side. He and his soldiers had the worse and were putto flight, and they ran
 away. The Captayn with the white and grene was Master of the felde: and assembled and gathered his
 men to gather after the Victorie. Now this Capteyn goeth to a town and semeth with his hand to heave
 up the towne, being a big towne. There was a voyce hard, saying thus,—So shall it be, with 21 more.
 Δ: Wyth what one and twenty?
 A voyce:—As yet, you can not know. This shall happen, before the Sonne hath twise gon his
 course.1012
 EK: Now the Capteyn appeared alone, on fote, in his harness. He holdeth up his hands to heven: He
 is now vanished away. I meane the Capteyn in white and grene. Now appeareth the red cloth before
 the chayre. There come in three: they all make cursy: and two of them went away.
 Δ: Our desyre is to know what we are to think of the Man which cam out of my Oratory and layd
 the fyry Ball at Mr Adrian Gilbert his fete yesterday, as he sat in my study with Mr Kelly and me:
 whether it were any Illusion, or the act of any seducer?
 Me: No wicked powre 
shall enter
 into this place.
 1013
 of his percing Judgment and election
 1014
 Neyther shall Iniquitie range where the fyre
 doth light, which shall quicken his deadness, and revive his
 courrage to the auancement of the name of him, which liueth now
 . He chose with fire and lightened
 theyr harts, and they immediately understode and felt the Illumination of his glory.1015
 What wilt thow?
 Δ:
 To the performance of the glorie and encreasing of his name, which shortly maketh an ende with for
 euer.
 Δ: This phrase, for euer
 , is somwhat dark.
 Me: With this world,
 for euer
 . Δ: This giveth some light.
 EK: The stone is become very dark.
 Me: As the Buylding is grownded and ended uppon Three, So must the mysteries hereof be
 practised With 
Three
 .
 The fowrth is the Boke, which, Lo, is here present.
 Δ: Must Adrian Gilbert, be made priuie of these Mysteries?
 Me: Thow hast sayde.1016
 Δ: May I note to your name any peculier Character or Syllable to distinguish your speches from
 ours or others?
 Me: Medicina sum.1017
 Δ: I may then use this syllable Me, to Note Medicina or Medicus Dei.1018
 Me: Behold, these things, shall God bring to pass by his hands whose mynde he hath now newly set
 on fyre.
 1019
 .1020
 The corners and streights of the earth
 shall be measured to the depth: And strange shalbe
 the wonders that are Creeping into new worldes. Tyme shalbe altred. with the difference of day and
 night
 All things haue grown allmost to theyr fullness. But beware of Pride
 . We teache duty,
Humbleness, and submission. Shortly shall these things come to passe.
 Δ: Than, this Adrian Gilbert shall cary the name of Jesus among the Infidells to the great glory of
 god, and the recouery of those miserable people from the mowth of hell into which, for many hunderd
 yeres past, and yet contynually they do fall, &c.
 Me: Who made thy mowth to prophesy? or, who* [Of God] opened the eyes of thy understanding?
 Who annoynted thy Jaws, or fed thee with unknown meate. Euen he* it is, that pricked these things
 forward, and shall use you as his Instruments to a mightie honor.
 Δ: May we require description1021 of the Cuntryes, for his better instruction, &c.
 
Me: Let darknes go behinde thee, and tempt him not, that iudgeth.1022 These things belong not to my
 charge. Thow knowest them, which are sufficient,1023 whan short time shall serue, for the whole
 instruction.1024 Greater nede were to enquire How or by what meanes thow mayst be made
 worthy;1025 and, so, consequently, haue knowledge for the knowing , hauing and using of this
 cælestiall medicine.
 Forget not.
 
I instructed thee before-hand, and told thee, that both of you must iointly1026lerne those holy letters
 (For, so, I may boldely call them) in memory: with theyr names: to the intent, that the finger may point
 to the hed, and the hed to the understanding of his charge:
 ∆: You perceyue that I haue diuerse affayres which at this present do withdraw me from peculier
 diligence using to these Characters and theyr names lerning by hart: And therfore I trust, I shall not
 offend, if I bestow all the convenient leysor1027 that I shall get, abowt the lerning hereof.
 Me: Peace, Thow talkest, as thowgh, thow understodest not. We know thee, we see thee in thy hart:
 Nor one thing shall not let an other. For short is the time, that shall bring these things to profe:
 Wherein he that liueth, shall approve him self aliue.1028 Beautifull are the footesteps of his comming,
 and great is the reuenge of the wicked.
 O Liber, Liber, Liber, bonis vita, malis vero mors ipsa. Magna sunt mirabilia in te inclusa: et
 magnum est nomen Sigilli tui
 Lumen Medicinæ meæ, vobis.1029
 
EK: He holdeth his hands abroad. He draweth the Curten.
 ∆: Gloria Laus et honor Deo patri et F. et SS.1030 Amen.
 
Martij 28. Thursday morning. Mawndy Thursday.
 A voyce: Pereant omnes qui insidiantur
 1031
 mea.1032
 virtuti nominis mei: et qui Lumen absconderunt lustitia
 EK: Now the vale is pluckt away.
 Three appeare, as before time.
 All three sayd,—Multa nos, quia multa patitur ipem.1033
 EK: The two go away, and the Third remayneth who is like in all points to him, who yesterday to
 me alone
 , in your absence had declared himself to be an Illuder. ∆: NOTE, for the better
 understanding of this dayes Act it may be remembred that E. Kelly, while I, (John Dee) was at
 London, yesterday (being wensday) had used meanes to haue conference, with the good Creatures,
 with whome we haue dealing iointly: and that there appeared one very 
like
 toke apon him to be the same
 , and now semed to be constrayned
 1034
 unto our good frende
 by EK
 , who
 to tell the truth: and
 therfore his outward beautifull apparell semed to go of, and his body appered hery and he confessed
 that he was an Illuder1035
 &c. Whereuppon EK was in a great perplexitie of mynde, and was ready to
 haue gone his way. And at my comming home told me a long processe of this Tragicall Act. But I
 comforted him, and wold not yeld to his opinion, But did declare my confidence in the goodnes of
 God: for that we craved at his hands, things good and necessarie: and that therefore he wold not giue
 his childern a stone for bred, or a scorpion for nedefull food required &c.1036
 And this morning the
 matter was propownded by me, and thereuppon the former sayings wer used, and all the
 consequences of matter, which hereafter is recorded.
 ∆: The veritie I require of yesterdays doings with EK on my absence.
 Camikas zure, he sayd, holding his hands to heuen.
 EK: He walketh up and down and semeth angry: and did beat his hands togither. There commeth a
 little streame of fire whitish from aboue: and cam to his hed. He kneleth down before the Chayre, and
 loketh up, and sayde,
 Me: Oh how brittle are the works of thy hands [he looked up] whose Imperfections are now more
 innumerable then the sands of the sea: or clowds that were lifted up since the begynning of the world.
 Darknes dare presume to place him self in Lightnes: yea dishonor, (o God) to dwell in place of glory:
 His lying lipps presume against Truth
 : whilest thow suffredst his old and withered face to be
 garnished with thy beawty. Heavines1037
 is his seat; yet are his lipps myrthfull: and little there that
 separateth him from the dignitie of honor: But his ponishment is sufficient, his dishonor unspeakable,
 and his damnation for euer: which how bitter it is, great and unspeakable, Thow, ô thow (I say) that
 liuest (which hast estranged him so far from thy glory) makest onely manifest. But yet how long shall
 the sonnes of men puff up them selues with bragging and.boasting of that they see not?
 But (alas) All
 things are confownded, and are contrary to thy commaundements: some onely which differ, remayn
 with concordant myndes praysing thee, and lifting up thy name, as much as strength performeth. But
 herein is thy glory and long sufferance manifest, in that thow dost not onely with greif behold theyr
synnes, but like a iust iudge, fauorably doth ponder the greatnes of theyr enemies which infect theyr
 myndes, and blynde the light, which thow hast given
 unto theyr understanding, with inflammations
 bodyly, instigations worldly, and tentations innumerable. Great therfore and most great, and none
 greater can be, which deridest the Aduersarie, and healest the weak: whose smallnes of habilitie
 thow canst augment, wherein the mysteries of thy great glorie and might, is manifest. Thy seal yeld
 prayses, with incessant and dutifull obedience. Thy name be magnified, thy mercy published to thy
 glory: Holy Holy, yea great and most holy, is thy euerlasting kindenes for euer.
 EK: Now he standeth up, and sayd,
 Me: As I haue all ready told,1038
 from whome I cam, so haue I not hydden, what I am, or what
 message I bring; why it is sent, it is allso written. How long shall I perswade to stedfastnes? But the
 greater your measures are the greater shalbe the quantitie. These afflictions are necessary. For herin is
 a measure to distinguish1039
 they are like us
 from falshode, light from darknes, and honor from dishonor. The more
 , or shew them selues so, (for, nothing can be more dislike) the more they are Judges of
 theyr own damnation. Yea, if his strength had byn great, he wold haue devoured thy sowle
 . [Loking to
 EK.] But whome God hath chosen
 , shall none overturne. Brag not: eyther Credyt my words by thyne
 owne reason. But Consider that diuerse may be dishonored, yea thowgh they be in honor: yet shallt
 not thow neyther be ouerturned with the one wynde nor the other: thowgh the afflictions that shall
 follow thee, be great and hard
 .
 1040
 In my words are no error: neyther haue you fownd my lipps
 untrue. Whan I kneeled, I spake for you. But I haue promised that No unclean
 thing shall prevayle
 within this place
 . Neyther am I a revenging spirit nor of any such office. I quicken the dead, revive
 them that are falln and cure or sow up the wowndes, which they are permitted to work uppon man, as
 tokens of God his Iustice.
 I call the same god, (whome I haue called before) to recorde, that these words are true, my sayings
 iust, and his mercies more perfect. Whilest heven endureth and earth lasteth, never shall be razed out
 the Memorie of these Actions.
 1041
 traynes,1042
 Use Humilitie: Reioyce whan the enemy is discomforted in his
 1043
 and inventions: A ponishment so great, Et cætera. Whan I yoked your feathers
 to
 gither, I ioyned them not for a while. Your flying is to be considered in quantitie, qualitie and
 Relation.
 Thank God: Be mercifull: forget your synnes: and prepare your selues, For great and wonderfull is
 the immediate powre
 of him that illuminateth from aboue. It shall light apon you: For those that are
 present with him, liued with him, eat and drank with him
 , [and] were instructed by him, Were but
 hearers onely: At length God was glorified, in one instant all things browght unto theyr remembrance:
 yea some of them taken to behold the heavens, and the earthly glory. I haue sayd.
 ∆:
 Me: Behold. Veniat vindictum dei, et percutiat linguam mentientem.1044
 EK: He goeth his waye and taketh all with him, Table, Chayre, and Curten and all. There cam in a
 great many with flaming swords, and bring in the wicked spirit, who yesterday delt so diuilishly with
 EK. One of them holding him by the arme, sayde, Speak now for your self, you could speak yesterday.
 They all drew theyr swords: they sknorked fire. And there seamed a water to com in, but it went away
 again.
 A voyce:—Dicat, nam nrm non est.1045
 EK: Now is the Skroll with the Characters browght in, which was fownd by spirituall direction
 this month, the 12 day, abowt 10½ after none
 by Mr Kelly and Master Husy.1046
 He semeth now as
 like our good frende, as may be. Our frende cam with a sponge and annoynted the wicked spirit his
lipps.
 A voyce:—Els could I not speak.
 ∆: Seing now thow canst speak, answer me.
 The wicked, sayd:—Ask quickly.
 ∆: What is thy Name?—The wicked answered, Gargat.
 ∆: What is the sentence of that skroll?—Gar: I know not.
 ∆: In the name of Jesus, I charge thee to tell me the truth as concerning That roll here shewed.—
 Gar: I haue cownterfeted this roll, and browght it: for it is not the true roll.1047
 ∆: After many words betwene him and me, and the more, bycause he denyed that he knew of any
 Glorie
 belonging to God, I urged him so, at length with short and euident argument, that he answered,
 he must confess the powre and glorie of god:
 and sayd, that he was damned for euer
 damnation to me
 : and did wish
 . And I requested God to use his Justice on him, for the glory of his name. Then he
 entreated me somwhile, and somwhile derided me, saying, Art thow so lusty? &c.
 ∆: All the Cumpany fell on him, and hewed him in peces: and digged a hole in the earth, with theyr
 swords, and he fell in, and after that was a myghty roaring hard.
 A voyce:—Sic soleo iniustis.1048
 ∆: The Cumpany went away. There cam a fire and seamed to burn all the howse.
 A voyce:—Purifica Domine sanctum tuum, et dele iniquitatem inimicorum nostrorum.1049
 ∆: Then returned our frende, , and all seemed light and bright agayn: likewise all the furniture,
 of Table, Chayre, Globe in the chayre covered with a red covering &c.
 Me: Visio vera, verè denotatur. Denotetur etiam ad gloriam Dei.1050
 ∆: Master Kelly, is your dowt of the spirit, now taken away?
 EK: Ye truely, I beseche God to forgive me.
 Me: Dixisti, et factum.1051
 ∆: As concerning Adrian Gilbert, there might be some dowte in common externall Judgment, of his
 aptnes to the performance of the voyage with the appertenances, But the Secret of God his prouidence,
 I will not meddle withall: for he can make infants speak, and the dum to shew furth his glory &c.
 Me: Yf God be mighty, acknowledge his powre. Who made the Sonne of nothing? or man, so brittle
 a substance? Nature thrusteth up her sholders amongst trees and herbs, like a ientle fyre: In beasts and
 all the creatures of the feelde, waters, and earth, in a palpable imagination: Amongst the sonns of
 men, she auanceth her self, wholy in the light of understanding. In all these she walketh by her own
 qualitie, mixing the quantities, with her before iudged proportion. Amongst all these is some
 distinction, yet all in theyr kindes are perfectly and substantially norrished. Yf Nature haue such
 powre, What powre hath our God, and how great is his might in those in whome He kindleth a sowle,
 understanding. The strength of 1. body, and 2. inward man, with 3. the strength of him that allso
 leadeth him
 1052
 are augmented and diminished at his pleasure. Yf earth, in myxture become fyre, hom
 much more shall he encrease, whome God hath strengthened: yf he wold haue conquered with
 thowsands,
 he wold not haue sent back 
the dogged
 harted people.
 felicitie, he wold haue kindled the twelue Lamps1053
 Yf riches or renown were his
 of his æternall light, on a higher mowntayne: But
 he chose them in the Valleys, and from the watering places. I think this be sufficient to confirme your
 understanding.
 ∆: I trust, God be not offended with this matter propownded &c.
 Me: He is pleased: And it is enowgh. Eternitie is mighty and glorious to the righteous.
∆: Whan shall I make him1054
 it is
 priuie of these things?
 Me: Whan thow wilt. For euery thing is acceptable with those that are accepted. See thow
 cownsayle him, and be his Father.
 ∆: As concerning John Dauis,1055
 we are to ax somwhat &c.
 Me: John Dauis, is not of my Kalender. Lern of them, of whome
 lerning the things before prescribed.1056
 God be emongst you.
 EK: He hath drawn the curten of red.
 ∆: Soli Deo sit omnis honor et gloria.1057
 necessary. Be not negligent, in
 Amen.
Mawndy Thursday, after None. hor 3½
 ∆: The Veale being drawn away after a quarter of an howre (almost) after the first motion made by
 me. Three cam in, and made obedience to the chayre. Two went away, and the third remayned there,
 as before.
 ∆: As concerning the Kalender to be reformed, I am grieved that her Maiestie will not reforme it in
 the best termes of veritie.
 1058
 And as for the priuiledge for Mr Adrian Gilbert his voyage, I think not
 well of it, that Royalties shold not be graunted. Therfore both these points, respecting her Maiestie, I
 wold gladly haue cownsayle, such as in the Judgment of the highest might be most for my behofe, to
 follow.
 Me: In one gouernment there are sundry principall partes: Euery part in subdiuision conteyneth
 many and sundry offices. Many Offices require many disposers: yet hath euery disposition continually
 some partition in his qualitie. All things, one thing: And one thing, something: some thing, many
 things, and many things, most innumerable. The heuens in proportion are gouerned universally of a
 few; particularly of many: eche place possesseth his diuision: and euery thing diuided, his propertie.
 Princis ar governors which move and stir them up to work, as it is provided, and to behold in
 speculation How euery particular Action, shall haue due, perfect, and appropriated Locall being,
 motion and Condition. Subiects, (yea, the Highest) are stirred up, by theyr propre Angels:1059
 The
 inferior sort do follow the disposition of theyr leaders. Vertue and Vice dwell euery where. Light and
 darknes, are allwayes intermedled.
 Consider, How I speak it.
 The myndes of all that move, euen unto the least qualitie in Nature, haue of them selues propre
 vertues: and therfore propre Instigators.
 1060
 I call to memory thy words, the manner of thy speche, and
 the secret purpose or meaning, whereunto it is uttred. I see thy Infirmities
 desyrest. But mark me, whom God commonly choseth,1061
 , and know what thow
 shalbe whom the Princis of the Erth do
 disdayn. Consider, how the prophet that slew that Monstrous Gyant, had his election.1062
 God respecteth not princis, particularly, so much as the state of his whole people. For in Princis
 mowthes,
 is there poyson, as well as proverbs. And in one hart, more Synne, then a whole world can
 conteyn. Yt is not myne office to meddle with theyr vanities
 , neyther is it a part of my pageant to
 towch any thing that tasteth not of Medicine.
 my cownsayle
 But, what? doth thy mynde reply? Dost thow think, that
 herin, to a grieved mynde, is, (thowgh it can be) Medicinall? Peraduenture1063
 thinkest I am not, [in] thy marrow: yes I haue byn long in the highest part of thy body,
 1064
 thow
 and therfore
 ame somthing perswaded of thy meaning.
 ∆: In dede, I thowght that your good Cownsaile, was or might be a remedie and a medicine to my
 afflicted mynde, for this unseamely doing, in the two former points expressed.
 Me: Behold, where unto thy earthly man wold seduce thee. Dost thow think, that if it pleas god, it
 shall not please the Prince? 
Secretum dico.1065
 if it
 be necessarie , 
all ready
 prepared?
For all things are Limited, with a full measuration, and unserchable forsight: yea, I say, all ready, unto
 the ende. Be not discomforted. Quayle not at the blast of a small tempest: For those that speak thee
 fayre,1066 haue dissembling harts, and priuilie do they shote at thee, with arrows of reproche. Whan
 they1067 shall haue nede of thee: I meane, of the help of God, throwgh thee, (some shut up, some
 entangled, some gadding1068 like masterles Doggs,) Than shall they gladly seke thee and desire to
 finde thee. They shall smell oute thy fote steps, and thow shallt not see them. The key of theyr Cares
 shalt thow be Master of: And they them selues shall not unlok theyr own grievousness. Yea they shall
 say, Oh let the earth devowr us. But I am to long. I answer thee, all thowgh it be not my office,1069 to
 declare that thow desirest: yet for that thow desyrest my Medicine. I say, Thow shalt preuayle agaynst
 them,1070 yea euen agaynst the Mightiest. As thow wilt, so shall it be in God his blessings.
 Beware of Vayne glory. Use few wordes.
 Thy weapons, are small, But thy Conquest shalbe great. Lo. Doth this satisfy thee? Haue a firme
 faith. It is the greatest lesson. Be it unto thee as thow hast deliuered. One thing, I answer thee, for all
 Officis. Thow hast in Subiection all Offices. Use them when it pleas thee, And as thy Instruction hath
 byn.
 I haue sayde.
 
∆: As things be planted here, for preparation of Table, Sigillum Dei &c, which things are not
 portable with eas: So, bycause I think, that some seruices to be done in gods purposes by me, will
 require other places than this howse, so shall diuerse my practises haue (as I think) a more
 compendious manner, and redy, to be executed in any place &c.
 Me: Truely thow hast sayd, and so shall it fall unto thee. As I am here in this place, and yet in dede
 not, So, here: So shall it fall oute, and follow in the Mysteries of your Associated Operation.
 The other1071 shall be, but, as a necessary help to the first Practises, to plant the Tree: which
 being confirmed and strongly rooted shall bring furth frute,most abundantly.1072 The Erth and the tree,
 can not be separated. This is the ende, and true it is. Let him be record, whom I beare record of here,
 And so, with thee, Amen.
 
I must help thee. Lerne ioyntly the Elements or grownds of this heuenly doctrine;1073 the ende and
 Consummation of all thy desired thirst: in the which God shall performe thee, thy Philosophicall
 Harmonie in prayer.1074 Thow knowest what I mean.
 The Æternall physitien minister his heuenly grace and continuall blessings uppon you, to the Glorie
 of his name, execution of your procedings, and holy and insatiable desires.
 ∆: Amen: Omnipotenti Deo, nostro, 
Creatori Redemptori et 
Santificatori, omnis honor 
laus et gratiarum actio.1075 
Amen.
 
Jesus.
On good friday; After None
 ∆: There was a savor of fire felt by EK. There semed one with a sword, suddenly to thrust out of the
 stone at EK his hed. Whereat he started; and sayd he felt a thing (immediately) creeping within his
 hed, and in that pang becam all in a sweat. And he remayned much misliking the moving and creeping
 of the thing in his hed. At a quarter of an howre ende it cam to one place: and so ceased somwhat: &
 then the Curten was drawn away: and there appeared the Table, and the chayre covered. Then cam
 three, two went away and the one remayned: as before was used.
 EK held the paper of the letters in his hand: and bad him put it out of his hand.
 Me: The taste of this mercifull potion, yea the savour onely of the vessell worketh most extremely
 agaynst the maymed drowsines of ignorance. Yf the hand be heavy, how weighty and ponderous shall
 the whole world be? What will ye?
 ∆: This he sayd uppon our silence after his former words. I answered, we desyred to lerne the
 Mysteries of the boke. The Boke now appeared (the cover of the chayre being taken away) the boke
 lying uppon a rownd thing: which EK, was not yet able to discern what it is.
 The first side of the first leaffe of the boke appeared full of the former letters, euery side hauing 49
 tymes 49 square places, with letters: some more then other.
 Me: Euery side conteyneth 2400 and one od letter.1076
 EK: All the letters semed to be of bluddy cullor, and wet. The lines betwene the squares, semed to
 be like a shaddow. In the first square were 7 letters.
 Me: Say after me: But pray first, ere you begynne. ∆: We prayed.
 EK: All became blak as pych in the boke.
 Then it becam light agayne.
 Now he pointeth up, with his rod of gold diuided into 3 equal parts, which rod he toke from
 under the Table.
 Me:
1. Keph van [He lifted his face to heven.] 
Don graph fam veh na
 EK: Now he kneleth down; and holdeth up his hands:
 The letters of the first square, ar 7.
 Now he pointeth to the second.
 2. Med gal [EK: He turneth him self abowt.]
 3. un gal un Mals na.
 Me: Twise seven, Thre and All one: and his mercy endureth for euer.
 4. Tal un vrh.
 5. Fam graph Fam.
 6. Ged graph drux med.
 7. un van.
 8. Tal un don ur un drux
 . Sownded as δρυξ
 9. Med.
 10. Tal van fam mals un.
 11. un ged gon med gal.
 12. Mals un drux.
 13. Ged un.
 14. Fam graph fam.
 15. ged un tal mals graph gal un keph
 16. veh un mals veh drux graph na [capcneh]
 17. ged med.
 18. med gal.
 19. Fam graph tal graph ur un pa van ged graph drux
20. Gal med tal drux un.
 21. mals na gon un tal
 22. ged un
 23. van un drux veh don un drux.1077
 24. Van don graph mals don graph fam
 EK: Now he seemeth to wepe, and knock his brest. He pointeth with the rod, up, agayn, and sayd,
 25. un gal graph mals gal
 26. un keph graph
 27. Gal don van keph
 28. Gisg un don gal graph tal un na.
 29. van un
 30. veh graph fam gisg fam
 31. ged don un mals un gal. He stayed here a good while.
 32. fam graph gal
 33. van drux pa un don
 34. gal med tal gon med urh
 35. un gal graph mals med un gal
 39. 38.37.36. veh na graph van un veh na / Tal un na / Med fam fam na graph / gal un mals na /
 40. med drux gon keph gal un don. This is a word.
 41. mals un drux ged graph mals na gon.
 EK: Now he walked up and down before the chayre: and cam agayn and pointed. The letters now
 following seme to be written with Clay.
 42. Med gal un tal na
 43. ged graph tal graph gal fam un ur: eight letters1078
 44. un
 45. gal gon drux med keph un
 46. na med pal mals med don. Now he walketh agayn, and loketh upward.
 Then he pointed agayn.
 47. Un gal mals van drux
 48. Gal un don
 49. ged un don tal graph fam: He walked betwene the shewing of tal and graph. There are six
 letters in that word.
 Me: Say after me (Shall I speak the Mysteries of thy glory, which thow hast secreted from the
 Inhabitants uppon the erth? Yea lord, it is thy will, whose hed is high, and fete euery where, redy to
 revenge the blud of Innocents, and to call home the lost shepe.
 )
 Say after me,
 1. zuresk1079
 Kapene1083
 od adaph mal zez1080
 geno au marlan oh muzpa agiod pan ga zez1081
 go[le] od Semelábugen donkna1084
 fian1085
 ga vankran vreprez1086
 gamphedax1082
 ádeph1087
 arxe1088
drux1089
 Tardemah va tzests1090
 grapad. zed unba1091
 domiól adepóad chieuak mah oshe daph
 Onixdar1092
 pangepi adamh gemedsol a dinoxa hoxpor adpun dar garmes.1093
 Me: I teache. Let this lesson instruct thee to read all that shalbe gathered out of this boke hereafter.
 It is not to be
 spoken,
 1094
 but in the time of his own time
 . It shalbe sufficient to instruct thee: Fare
 well.
 EK: Now he couereth the boke with the veale.
 ∆: Prayses and Thankes be rendred to god, of us his sely1095
 ones, now and euer. Amen.
 ∆: Note. All the former letters and words in the squares, were onely in the first or upper row,
 begynning at the right hand, and so going orderly to the left. And secondly Note that this lesson he red,
 pointing with his rod orderly uppon the same forsaid first row.
Martij 31. Easter day after none abowt 4.
 EK hard first a sownd of Musicall harmonie.
 ∆: The Veale was pluckt away.
 Three cam in, two went away, as was before accustomed.
 EK: Now he lyeth down. He riseth and pulleth the veale from the chayre. That veale was of cullor
 as a raynbow. The boke appeared playne and evidently on the globe in the chayre. EK felt the thing
 ronne in his hed as the other day it did. Me taketh out the rod from under the Table: He sayd,
 Æternitas in Cælo.
 ∆: Uppon my staying from speche, he sayd, What wilt thow?
 ∆: The proceding instruction necessary for understanding of the boke.
 Me: Mensuratur.1096
 ∆: He putteth up his rod to the boke.
 Me: Sint oculi illorum clari, ut intelligant.1097
 [He held up his hands and semed to pray.] He
 pointed now to the second row of the 49 rows of the first page of the boke, and sayd,
 Secundus a primo.
 1. Gon na graph na van fam veh na [Now he walketh up and down.]
 2. Ged don med drux na un gal med Keph [He walketh agayn.]
 3. Un don gal graph drux [He walked agayn.]
 4. med
 5. drux un [He walked.]
 6. ged graph tal mals [He walketh.] un ur med. [7 letters.]
 7. med gon veh un fam tal un drux
 8. van un drux gal don graph fam
 9. med don gal un
 10. van graph van graph gon un na
 11. drux med fam
 12. mals ur gon ged drux un mals na graph
 13. Keph un tal mals med drux med drux
 14. un drux graph mals na
 15. med mals na graph  [Here, veh or gal is indifferent.]
 16. un
 17. Tal graph gal med  [or rather] pal [So it shalbe better understode.1099
 18. Tal un don van drux graph
 19. ged graph drux un
 20. mals don graph fam [Now he walketh.]
 21. drux med
 22. gal un fam tal un gisg
 23. van med don gisg fam
 ]
24. tal un drux ged graph gisg [So it is.]
 25. un
 gal graph van drux graph
 26. gal un tal mals na
 27. drux un pal gisg
 28. med fam
 29. van un drux gal graph tal na drux un pal un gisg [12 letters.]
 30. med don med mals na un fam
 31. van med don
 32. tal gon drux med gal un ur
 33. un tal van gal un fam
 34. ged graph don
 35. mals un
 36. med
 37. gal un pal keph van tal
 38. pa un drux veh graph fam
 39. med don gal un drux [Now he maketh low obeysance to the chayreward.]
 40. Mals un Incomprehensibilis es in æternitate tua.1100
 41. Mals don graph fam
 42. van tal pa ur med fam gal un
 43. van med don pal
 44. drux un gal med drux
 45. mals un gisg don med mals na graph fam.
 46. van drux gal graph fam.
 47. un gal med drux.
 48. ged un drux graph pa drux1101
 49. gon na graph na van gal keph
 Me: Shall I rede it? ∆: We pray you.
 2. Ihehusch
 Gronadox1102
 fam.
 arden, o na gémpalo micasman1103
 plígnase zampónon aneph1106
 manget a-deüne1110
 Ophad1107
 a medox1108
 damph. naxt os vandeminaxat.1111
 marúne gena pras1109
 vandres orda beuegiah1104
 noz1105
 no dasmat. Vorts
 Oróphas vor mínodal amúdas ger pa o
 daxzum banzes1112
 ordan ma pres umblosda vorx nadon patróphes undes adon ganebus Ihehudz
 ∆: Gehudz consisteth of 6 letters: But, Gon na graph na van gal keph, consisteth of 7. I wold gladly
 be resolued of that dowt if it pleas you.
 EK: He boweth down, and put the rod away, and than Kneled down.
 Δ: He rose and axed me, What wilt thow?
 Δ: The former question to be soluted. Me: Thow hast written fals: for, it must be Ihehudz,
 is of 7 letters.
 and so it
 Δ: Yf euery side conteyne 49 rows, and euery row will require so much tyme to be receyued as this
 hath done it may seme that very long time will be requisite to this doctrine receyuing: But if it be gods
good liking, we wold fayne haue some abridgment or compendious manner, wherby we might the
 soner be in the work of Gods servyce.
 EK: The Chayre and the Table are snatched away,
 1113
 and seme to fly toward heven. And nothing
 appeared in the stone at all: But was all transparent clere.
 Δ: What this snatching away of Chayre and Table doth meane we know not: But if the Lord be
 offended with his yonglings, and Novices in thes Mysteries, for propownding or requiring a
 compendious Method &c, Then we are very sorry, and ax forgivenes for the rashnes of our lipps: and
 desyre his maiestie not to deale so rigorously with us: as thowgh we had sufficient wisdom or
 warning, to beware of such motions or requests making to his ministers. Let it not be so sayd of the
 holy one of Israel
 : but let his mercies abownd with us to his glorie. Amen.
 EK: Now commeth all down agayn, as before.
 Me: What are the Sonnes of men, that they put time in her own bosom? or measure a Judgment that
 is unsearchable?
 Δ:
 Me: I help thy imperfections: What, man thinketh wisdome, is error in our sight. But bicause my
 Nature is to cure, and set up those that fall, Thus much understand.
 As I haue sayde: The 49 partes of this boke
 1114
 theyr inferiors and subiects,
 1115-49 voyces, Whereunto the so many powres, with
 haue byn, are, and shalbe obedient.
 Euery Element in this mysterie is a world of understanding. Euery one knoweth here what is his due
 obedience: and this shall differ thee
 in speche
 from a mortall creature.
 1116
 Consider with thy self, How thow striuest against thyne own light, and shaddowest the windows of
 thyne own understanding.
 I haue sayde: Be it unto thee, as God will. I am not a powre or whirlewynde that giueth occasion of
 offence.
 Longe sumus a peruersitate destructionis.1117
 understanding.
 Δ:1118
 Me: Lo, untill the Secrets
 Thus much I haue sayd, for thy reformation and
 of this boke be written
 , I come no more: neyther of me shall You haue
 apparition. Yet, in powre, 
my office
 any
 shall be here.1119
 Say, what you here, for every word shall be named unto you: it is somwhat a shorter way, and more
 according to your desyre.
 Euery Element1120
 languages.1121
 hath 49 manner of understandings. Therin is comprehended so many
 They are all spoken at ones
 , and seuerally, by them selues, by distinction may be
 spoken. Untill thow come to the Citie, thow canst not behold the beawty thereof.
 Nihil hic est, quod non est perfectum.1122
 I go. I haue sayde, (and it is true,) No unclean thing shall enter: Much less, then, here
 sight of whose Maiestie
 worthy.1123
 we tremble and quake at. He shall teache, of himself;
 : For, it is the
 for, we are not
 What then, of your selues? But such is his great and singular fauor, that, he is of him self,
 and with those, whom he choseth.1124
 1125
 For, the ende of all things is at hand,
 and Powre must
 distinguish, or els nothing can prevayle. What you here, yea what thow feelest, by thy finger, Recorde;
 and seale sure. This is all, and in this is conteyned all, that comprehendeth all, The allmighty powre
 and profunditie of his glory.
 What els?
As thow seest, and till he see, whose sight,1126
 is the light of this his own powre, His might is great.
 The dew of his stedfastnes and glorious perfection hold up and rectify the weaknes of your fragilitie:
 Make you strong to the ende of his workmanship to whome I commit you.
 EK: He plucketh the veale ouer all.
 A voyce afterward:—Ne Ne Ne na Jabes.
 Δ: Sanctus Sanctus Sanctus Dominus Deus Zebaoth: Pleni sunt cæli et terra gloria Maiestatis eius.
 Cui soli omnis honor, laus et gloria.1127
 Amen.
1583 Aprilis 2. Tuesday. Jesus + before none
 Δ: A noyce like a Thunder was first hard. The Chayre and Table appered. There appered fyre in the
 chayre, and burnt away the veale or covering therof. The cullor of the flame of the fire was as of
 Aqua vitæ burnt.
 A voyce:—Sum.1128
 EK: There goeth a clowd or smoke from the chayre, and covereth the Table. That smoke filled all
 the place.
 A voyce:—Impleta sunt omnia gloria et honore tuo.1129
 EK: All is become clere, saue the Table which remayned couered with the clowde still.
 A great th-under began agayn, and the chayre remayned all in fire. Now the boke appeareth
 euidently lying uppon the Globe
 in the chayre and the letters appered wet styll, as yf they were blud.
 There appered fire to be thrown oute of the stone, uppon EK.1130
 The sownd of many voyces semed to pronownce this: Let all things prayse him and extoll his name
 for euer.
 EK: The fire is still in the chayre, but so transparent, that the boke and letters therof may well be
 seen.
 EK felt his hed as if it were on fire.
 A voyce:—Sic soleo errores hominum purificare.1131
 A voyce:—Say what you see.
 EK: I see letters, as I saw before.
 A voyce:—Moue not from your places;1132
 for, this place is holy
 .
 A voyce:—Read.—EK: I cannot.
 Δ: You shold haue lerned the characters perfectly and theyr names, that you mowght now haue
 redyly named them to me as you shold see them. Then there flashed fire uppon EK agayne.1133
 A voyce:—Say what thow 
thinkest
 . Δ: He sayd so to EK.
 EK: My hed is all on fire.
 A voyce:—What thow thinkest, euery word, that speak.
 EK: I can read all, now, most perfectly: and in the Third row1134
 3. Palce1135
 thus I see to be red,
 duxma ge na dem oh elóg da ved ge ma fedes o ned a tha lepah nes din. Ihehudétha
 dan vangem onphe dabin oh nax palse ge dah maz gem fatesged oh mal dan gemph naha Lax ru
 lutúdah ages nagel osch. macom adeph a dosch ma handa.
 EK: Now it thundreth agayn.
A voyce:—Ego sum qui in te. Mihi ergo qui Sum.
 Δ: Non nobis domine non nobis, sed nomini tuo damus gloriam.1136
 Δ: Then EK red the fowrth row, as followeth,
 4. Pah o mata nax lasco vana ar von zimah la de de pah o gram nes ca pan amphan van zebog ahah
 dauez öl ga. van gedo oha ne daph aged onédon pan le ges ma gas axa nah alpod ne alida phar or ad
 gamésad argla nado oges.
 Δ: Blessed be the name of the Highest, who giueth light and understanding.
 EK: It thundreth agayn. All is covered.
 A voyce:—Orate.1137
 Δ: We prayed: and returning to the work agayn, the fire covered all still and EK hard voyces,
 singing (as a far of) very melodiously. Then all became euident agayn unto EK his perfect Judgment.
 Δ: EK then red thus,
 5. Mabeth ar mices1139
 achaph pax mara geduth alídes orcánor manch1140
 arseth. olontax ar
 geban vox portex ah pamo. agématon buríse ganport. vdríos pasch. Machel len arvin zembuges.
 vox mara. gons Ihehusch dah pársodan maäh alsplan donglses adípr1141
 agínot. archad1142
 dax van famlet a dex arge pa gens.
 6. Van danzan oripat es vami gest ageff ormaténodah zálpala doniton pasdaes1143
 dons a
 gánpogan
 Undanpel adin achaph máradon oxámax anólphe dan ieh voxad mar vox ihedutharh aggs pal med
 lefe. IAN lefa dox parnix O droes1144
 marsíbleh aho dan adeph uloh iads ascleh da verox ans
 dalph che damph lam achos.1145
 EK: There is a great Thundring agayn.
 Δ: It is the hand of the highest, who will get him honor by his own works.
 EK: The Voyce and sownd of pleasantnes and reioycing was hard: and all was dark.
 A small voyce:—Locus est hic sanctus.1146
 An other voyce:—Sacer est a te Domine.1147
 EK: All is now opened agayne.
 Δ: Then EK, red thus,
 7. Amídan gah1149
 lesco van gedon amchih ax or madol cramsa ne dah vadgs lesgamph1150
 mara panosch aschedh or samhámpors asco*. pacadabaah asto
 1151
 ar:
 a vdrios archads ors arni.
 pamphíca lan gebed druxarh fres adma. nah pamphes eä vanglor brisfog mahad. no poho a
 palgeh donla def archas NA Degel.
8. Vnaem1152
 palugh agan drosad ger max fa lefe pandas mars langed undes mar. pachad odidos
 martíbah v’dramah noges gar. lenges argrasphe drulthe las aséraphos. gamled cam led caph
 Snicol lumrad v ma. pa granse paphres a drinox a demphe NA. genile o danpha. NA ges a ne
 gaph a.
 EK: The sownd of Melodie, begynneth agayne.
 Δ: The fire cam from EK his eyes, and went into the stone againe. And then, he could not perceyue,
 or read one worde.1153
 The Fyre flashed very thick and all was couered with a veale.
 Δ: Prayse we the lord, and extoll his name. For, his hand hath wrought wundrous works, for his
 owne glorie.
 Amen.
Aprilis.3. Wensday, Forenone †
 Δ: First the Curten was drawn away: and then all appeared on fire: The whole place all ouer. EK
 hard voyces, but could not discern any thing but the hummering of them.
 Δ: There cam fire agayn (out of the stone) uppon EK, all his body ouer.
 EK: The fire so diminisheth it self that the boke may be perceyved.
 A voyce:—Magnus Magnus Magnus.1154
 An other voyce:—Locus
 sacer
 et acceptabilis Deo.1155
 EK fellt the fire to gather up into his hed. Shortly after he could read the boke, as he could do
 yesterday.
 9. Vlla1156
 doh aco par semná gan var se gar on dun. sebo dax se pal genso vax necra par sesqui
 nat. axo nat sesqui ax1157
 olna dam var gen vox nap vax. Vro1158
 varca cas nol undat vom
 Sangef famsed oh. sih ádra gad gesco vansax ora gal parsa.-------------------------------------------------10. Varo. nab vbrah NA pa uotol ged ade pa cem1159
 na dax. van sebrá dah oghe aschin o nap gem phe axo or. nec a ve da pengon a moroh ah óha
 aspáh. niz ab vrdráh1160
 1161
 gohed
 prac crúscanse.1162
 11. gam. ohe gemph ubráh-ax.1163
 a carnat dan faxmal gamph. gamph nacro vax asclad caf
 orpna1164
 geman ange hanzu ALLA
 .1166
 nex-or napo, gemlo. a cheph1165
 can sedló pam
Cáppo-se damo gam-vas oro-dax-vá ges-pálo palme pola.1167
 EK: All these, (now red,) fall out and all the rows, before, likewise.
 A voyce:—Prayse God.
 Δ: We prayed. And after, was this shewed,1168
 Gals-ange no-témpa-ro sama dan genzé axe. falod amruh ácurtoh saxx par mano gan vax no.1169
 gramfa gem sadglá1170
 loh vrox sappóh iad ah oha unra.
 Δ: Now appeared an other row.
 12. Se1171
 gors axol ma pa a oh la sabúlan. Caph ardox anpho nad v‘rnah ud ago lan vans.1172
 v’xa grad órno dax palmes árisso dan vnra. vánsample galse not zablis óphide ALLA loh. gaslah
 osson luze adaö max vanget or dámo ans. leóz dasch léöha dan se gla’spa neh.
 All becam dark, and it thundred.
A voyce:—Prayse God.
 Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Now appered three or fowr rows to gither. The boke seemed to fly, as if it wold fly a peces (the
 fyre remayning) and to make a great sturring in the place where it lay.
 13. Amprí apx ard ardo argá1173 argés argáh ax. osch nedo les icás. han andam von ga lax man.
 nosch. dóngo a yntar cey1174 lude asch úrise alpé gem var dancet.1175 nap alped v‘rsbe temps a
 vod nos gema o ulon máncepax oxné pricos a got. zalpa ne doxam órne.1176
 14. Admag apa ascò1177 tar. gans oärz am seph selqui quisben alman. gons sa ieh mársibleh gron
 áscabb gamat. neý aden vdan phand sempés nan narran al. cáno géme dansé álde nótes
 parcélah arb ner ga lum pancu1178 príscas ábra músce1179 an nox. napód1180 a on dan sem ges
 asche1181
 
EK: A sownd of many voyces, sayd,—Orate.1182
 15. Mica suráscha para te gámmes ádrios NA danos. vra lad pacad ur gesme crus1183 a prásep
 ed. a palse nax varno zum. zancú asdom baged V’rmigar orch phaphes ustrá nox affod masco
 gax cámles vnsanba a oh la gras par quas. cónsaqual lat gemdax tantat ba vod. talpah ian.
 16. Gescó1184 a taffom ges nat gam. pamphé ordáquaf cesto chídmap1185 mischná ia-ísg.1186
 iaiálphzudph a dancét1187 vnban caf ránsembloh. daf-ma1188 vp aschem graos1189 chrámsa1190
 asco dah. vímna gen álde os papéam och láuan vnad. oh drosad údrios nagel panzo ab sescú.
 Vórge afcál1191 vslaffda mórsab gaf1192 ham de Peleh asca.
 
Δ: This went away, when it was read. It waxed dark.
 A voyce:—Orate.1193 Δ: We prayed.
 EK: It beginneth to clere.
 A voyce to EK:—Say.
 17. Ar’tosa geme oh gálsagen1194 axa loph gebed adóp: zarcas vr vánta pas ámphe nóde alpan.
 nócas se ga ormácased lax naph talpt. pámphicas1195 sandam Voscméh iodh asclad ar. phan
 gas málse a quaz nam vngem vansel gembúgel a gémbusez á-ro1196 tehl alts murt valtab bániffa
 faxed ar chlyfod
 18. A tam nat. glun asdeh ahlud gadre fam Shing la dan. guinsé1197 life1198 arilsar zabulan
 cheuách1199 se. amph lesche andam var ges ar phex are.1200 NA1201 tax páchel lapídox ar da
 vax malcos. vna gra tassox varmára ud ga les vns ap se. ne da ox lat ges ar.
 
Now it waxeth dark. Δ: We must pray: (sayd I) and so we did. But EK prayed perfectly in this
 Angels language &c.
19. Asmo dahán pan casme co caph al oh. san ged a ba
 nsaa
 1202
 un adon a seb Ian. agláho dánfa
 zúna cap orcha1203
 gem gas mal. parcóg1205
 dah os. fámsah ON naä
 b1204
 ab nagah geha fastod. hansey om hauan lagra
 dax nedo va geda leb ar’ua ne cap sem1206
 20. Onsem gelhóldim geb abníh ian. oxpha bas cappó
 carvan.
 cars órdriph grip gars. of víndres nah ges
 páhado vllónooh can vaz a. fam gisril ag nóhol sep gérba dot vánca NA.
 sem ah-pa
 1207
 nex ar-pah
 lad vamó iar séque. 
Vad ro garb. ah sem dan van ged ah paleu1208
 Now, the fire shot oute of EK his eyes, into the stone, agayne. And by and by he understode nothing
 of all, neyther could reade any thing: nor remember what he had sayde. All became dark. Then was
 the curten drawne, and so we ended.
 Δ: Gloria patri et filio et spiritui sancto 
nunc et semper.1209
 Amen.
Aprilis .3. Wensday + After none hor 5¼
 Δ: A prety while, the veale remayned ouer all: then it was taken away. First fire was thrown uppon
 EK out of the stone. Many voyces concordantly sayd,—Bonum est ô Deus, quia Bonitas ipa es.1210
 1211
 ,1212
 Δ: Then EK read the row on this manner,
 21. Padohómagebs1213
 ar’mbu.1215
 1214
 galpz arps
 apá nal Si. gámvagad al pódma gan NA. vr cas nátmaz ándiglon
 zántclumbar ar noxócharmah. Sapoh lan gamnox vxála vors. Sábse cap vax mar vinco.1216
 Labandáho nas gampbox arce.1217
 arzulgh1220
 1221
 orh.
 sémhaham1222
 dah gorhahálpstd gascámpho1218
 Ian ge. Béfes argédco1219
 nax
 vn’cal laf garp oxox. Loangah.1223
 Δ: Now appered Raphael [ ] or one like him, and sayde,
 Salus vobis in illo qui vobiscum.1224
 I am a medicine that must prevayle against your infirmities: and am come to teache, and byd take
 hede. Yf you use dubble repetition
 , in the things that follow, you shall both write and work and all at
 ones: which mans nature can not performe. The trubbles were so great that might ensue thereof, that
 your strength were nothing to preuayle against them. When it is written, reade it no more with voyce
 ,
 till it be in
 prac
 tise. All wants shalbe opened unto you. Where I fownd you, (with him, and there,) I
 leave you. Cumfortable Instruction is a necessarie
 Farewell.
 Medicine.
 EK: The boke and the Chayre, and the rest were all out of sight while Raphael spake, and he lay
 down prostrate. EK saw a great multitude in the farder side of the stone. They all cam into the stone,
and axed,
 What now? 
How now?
 Vors mábberan = how now: what hast thow to do with us?
 Δ: As I began thus to say (The God of powre, of wisdom
 ,) they all interrupted my entended prayer
 to god for help &c and sayd, We go We go.
 Δ: And so they went away.
 Then the boke and the rest cam in agayne.
 A voyce:—One Note more, I haue to tell thee. Ax him not, What he sayeth
 , but write as thow
 hearest: for it is true.
 Δ: Then, o lord, make my hearing sharp and strong, to perceyue sufficiently as the case requireth.
 Rap:—Be it unto thee.
 Δ: Then EK red as followeth,
 22. ors lah
 gemphe nahoh ama-natoph
 Vars macom des curad vals mors
 Luruandah1225
 des garhul vanseph iuma lat gedos lubah
 aha last gesto
 gaph gemsed pa campha zednu ábfada máses lófgono
 lesog iamle padel arphe nades gulsad maf gescon lampharsad surem paphe arbasa
 arzusen agsde ghehol max vrdra paf gals macrom finistab gelsaphan asten Vrnah1226
 A Voyce: Whatsoeuer thow settest down shalbe true.
 Δ: I thank god most hartilie: The case allso requireth it so to be.
 23. Asch val íamles árcasa árcasan arcúsma íabso gliden paha pacadúra gebne1227
 gádne au1228
 óscaroh
 arua las genost cásme palsi uran vad gadeth axam pambo cásmala sámnefa
 gárdomas árxad pámses gémulch gapes lof lachef ástma vates1229
 garnsnas orue gad garmah
 sar‘quel rúsan gages drusala phímacar aldech oscom lat garset panóston.1230
 24. gude laz miz lábac vsca losd pa Cópad dem sebas gad váncro umas ges umas umas ges gabre
 umas umáscala um’phazes umphagám maaga mosel iahal loges1231
 orgen1232
 vapron fémse dapax
 láscod ia láscoda vága am lascafes iarques préso tamísel vnsnapha ia dron
 goscam
 lápe voxa chimlah aueaux losge auióxan lárgemah.
 25. zureth axad lomah ied gura vancrásma ied sesch lapod vonse avó avé lamsage zimah zemah
 zúmacah Vormex artman voz vozcha tolcas zapne zarvex zorquem allahah gibúrod1233
 Ampátraton zimegauna1234
 zonze zámca aschma1235
 vlpa tapa van vorxvam drusad Caph
 castárago grúmna can‘caphes absacáncaphes zúmbala teuort granx zumcot lu graf saxma Cape.
 26. Col age lam gem fam tepham vra ap du ca sampat vóxham Lúnzapha axquem Bobagélzod
 gaphémse lan’se agni cam setquo teth gaphad oxámarah gímnephad vox’canah vrn dage1236
 paphcod zámbuges zambe ach oha zambúges gásca lunpel zadphe zómephol zun zadchal
 ureseh varún pachádah gusels vx amna pa granna oh vz
 Δ: I think it will be dark by and by, and our Cumpany will expect our comming down to supper.
 Therfore, if, without offence we might now leave of, it might seme good so to do.
 A voyce:—gemeganza = your will be done.
Δ: As I was discoursing with EK after we had done, and he seamed yet skylfull and hable to say
 much of the understanding of the premisses, and began to declare somwhat, How they did all
 apperteyne to Good Angels, suddenly there cam the fyre from his eyes into the stone agayne. And than
 he could say no more: nor remember any thing of that he had hard seen or understode less than half a
 quarter of an howre before.
 Δ: Deo nostro Viuo Vero et Omnipotenti 
sit omnis laus et graz actio 
nunc et semper.1237
 Amen.
Aprilis 4 Thursday + mane hor. 5½
 
Δ: I made a prayer.
 Δ: A voyce:—Quia ipem Deus Deus Deus noster cuius misericordia infinita.1238
 Δ: The fire, immediately did shote out of the stone into EK, as before. His tung thereuppon did
 quake in his mowth.
 EK: The Veale hangeth yet before.
 Δ: Then, all being uncouered, thus he red.
 27. Atra cas carmax pabámsed gero adol macom vaxt gestes1239 ladúch carse ámages1240 dascal
 panselogen dursca zureóch pamcasah vsca huädrongúnda malue ior. gáscama af orthox VAN
CORHG aspe zubra vaacáäh gandeuá arinmaphel vax oh saoh abra iehudeh gamphe vndáxa
 casmat lafet vncas laphet vanascor torx glust hahaha enséde gumah galseds.
 28. Pacádpha palzé zuma carphah uzad capaden v’lsage1241 EXCOL-PHAG-MARTBH iasmadel
 vóscon sem abnérda tohcoth1242 iamphala páhath órcheth iesmog pasque Labáäh agas lada
 vng lasco ied ampha leda pageh gemze axax ózed caphzed campha voxal luthed gedan1243
 famech1244 ártsnad gathad zuresch pascha lo guma1245 halphe dax vancron patel zurad
 29. Canda lahad Bóbagen afna vorzed phadel NOBTDAMBTH gáscala oxad vanges1246 vodoth
 mured achna1247 adcol damath zesvamcul pacadáah zimles zoraston geh galze mazad pethel
 cusma iaphes huráscah órphade loscad mages1248 mat lúmfamge detchel1249 orze cámalah
 vndan padgze1250 páthmataph zumad lepháda oháäx vlschan1251 zembloh agne phamgah iudad
 capex Luzad vemech arse
 30. Onda gams luzgaph vxan genzed1252 pádex CÓNGAM-PHLGH 1253 ascath gadpham zurdah
 zamge gloghcha sapax tastel vn‘sada phatheth zúncapha oxamáchad semteph ascle zuncas
 magzed dulm pamfra húsage axad exóradad casmet ámphigel adcath luza pathem nécotheth
 gesch1254 labba doh dóxa vascheth hoxan lamésde lampha iodoch gonzah hamges1255 glutha
 óxmogel1256 démapha vz’ed ascraph.
 31. zudath chádgama1257 ómsage1258 hor gadsa gézes ORPHÁM-ZAM NAHE1259 gedod asphed
 voxa gémgah lath gáphes zembloth chasca olphe dax marpha lothe sool1260 separ marges1261
 bosqui laxa cosneth gonse dadg voxma v‘mage vnx gascheth lood admah loo1262 ga zem-chá
na-phe am’-na-la ia pacheth nox-da a-mah
 32. Gedox al SEM-GA-NA-DA-BAH ongagágeda phachel loódath haxna gu-na-pá-ge-pha al se
 geda oh oöda géhoph pachad enol adax loges famgah laxqui hasche vadol vóms-a-na gax-ma
dephna-zad gel panca vam Sesquin oxal genoph voödal u-má-da-bah
 33. Asge lun zumia paxchádma enohol duran ORCHLÓD-MAPHAG mages oschan lod bunda
 cap luzan lorpha leuándah orxzed famzad ge-nós-o-dath1263 phasélma gesda chom-gasnaph
geth-nag goth1264 ládmano Vmvar gezen vax gulzad margas luxt lapch iudath zomze van goth
 dah vorx guna ia ada Vox-há-ma-na
 34. Arze galsam vnza vcha pasel noxda Nobróschom1265 gu-na-dé-phogas dúnseph man-cax
mal-cás-mah ied-hah-mel-cár-na zemphe vncah lethoph both-ned-ga-phí-cas-mel ioth-hath
cha-sad ma-neded-ma-gon zuna gothel pascheph nodax vam phath mata1266
 A voyce: Orate. Δ: We prayed.
 35. Aphath zunca voxmor can zadcheth1267
 napha. VOR-DOMPHÁNCHES ga-ues-go-sa-del
 gurah leth agsnah orza max pace ieth cas lad fam pahógama zon-chás-pha-ma zumblés-cha-phax
 var-gat-ma-gas-ter ne-ho-gat-ma-gan vn-gaphax-ma-la gegath laxqu goga lab naches1268
 Δ: Thereuppon the Vele was drawn, and the fire cam from EK his eyes again into the stone.
 Δ: Deo opt. Max. omnis honor 
laus et gloria.1269
 Amen.
Aprilis .5. Friday + a meridie hora 5¼
 Δ: The Vele was taken away, without any speche used by me or EK. The boke and all the former
 furniture appeared very bright.
 Δ: I made a prayer to god, begynning, Expectãs expectaui Dominum 1270
 &c.
 EK: I here the sownd of men playing very melodiously on Instruments and singing.
 A Voyce:—Serue God and take hede of Nettels.1271
 Δ: This was spoken to EK in respect of a great
 anger he was-in yesternight, by reason that one had done him inurie in speche at my table. [Charles
 Sled.]
 EK: There appere a great many, a far of; as thowgh they appered beyond the top of a howse: and so
 semed far of behinde the stone: and they seme to haue no heds.
 A Voyce:—A peculier people, and shalbe restored.1272
 Δ: After this voyce, the sayd hedles-people disäpered. Then all appered fyre, and a clowd covered
 all: and in the top of the fyre in the chayre, appered three faces, and seemed to shute and close in one.
 The faces seemed, eche to turn rownd, and so to ioyne in one afterward.
 A Voyce:—Prayse him in his glorie and worship him, in his truth.
 Δ: The fire entred into EK.
 A voyce:—Orate.1273
 Δ: We prayed.
 Δ: Then thus appeared,
 36. gedóthar argo fa adóphanah gamsech olneh várasah iusmach [= begotten.]
 A voyce:—Interpret not, till your understanding be furnished.1274
 Vschna pháol doa vah oho lazed la-zu-red ámma donax valesto acaph lámphages ronox ganma iudreth
 loth adágma gonsaph godálga phareph iadsma zema loa ag-náph-ag-on zu-na-ha1275
 cas zeda ox arni
 37. Adgzelga1276
 1277
 olms vánaph osma vages otholl dox an ga had
 al me io-náp-ha
latqui dónaphe zu gar.
 phamah1278
 nordeph gasmat gasque gasla gas NA gasmaphés gasmagél gasnúnabe vamsech
 ábsechel gúlapha axnécho demsa pámbochaph iehúsa gadaámah nosad iurés chy almse orsa
 vax marde zun éffa mochoéffa zuréheffa asga Lubeth bethlémcha máxiche iehúscoth iaphan
 órnada vamne od ghim-noh
 38. Arp
 he1279
 lamse gaphnedg1280
 argaph zonze zumcoth O’mdopadáphaab
 1281
 nulech1282
 gaartha ancáphama soldémcah casdra vges lapha ludasphándo ga-lú-ba-noh ap-á-cha-na1283
 iedeph zembloh zamgýssel chéuacha laquet lozódma ierinth onaph uzad máspela gýman
 orphámmagah iu-mes-ba-lé-go archánphame. zamcheth zoach1284
 39. Am’chama zeuoth luthámba ganeph iamda ox oho iephad made noxa voscaph bámgephes
 noschol apeth iale lod ga NA-zuma datques vorzad nu-mech1285
 apheth nudach caseth iotha lax
1286
 arseth armi pli ca tar bám a co
 seh.1287
 zamgeph gaseth vrnod arispa iex ban Setha. oh lagnaph
 dothoth brazed vamchach odoámaäh zembles gunza naspolge gáthme orsoth zurath vámeth
 an
 40. Zalpe íedmacha ámphas nethoth alphax durah gethos aschéph nethoth iubad laxmah ionsa
 max dan do násdoga mátastos
 1288
 lateth vnchas amse Jacaph zembloágauh1289
 ad-pha-má-gel
 ludcha-dam-sa am-phí-ca-tol ar-nó-pa-a a-da-pa-gé-moh no-dás-ma mac-hes-tép-ho-lon
 41. Lumbor iemásch onzed gam-phi-dá-rah. gom-ás-cha-pa zeba zun amph naho zucath
 uomplínanoháhal
 machal lozma dauangeth búches lauax orxod maches donchaph luzath
 marpheth oz lanva don gáuah oschol lúmasa phedeph omsa nax do-má-ge-re an-ge-no-phá-cha
 pha-cha-dó-na
 42. óschala zamges onphá gemes phaches nolpha daxeth machésmachoh vastnalpoh gemas nach
 loscheph daphmech noth chales zunech maschol Lu
 1290
 gasnaph malces gethcaph madena1291
 oäh gemsah pa luseth iorbástamax
 elcaph rusam phanes domsath gel1292
 pachadóra amáxchano
 lu-ma-gé-no ar-ma-cha-phá-me-lon adro micho natath iamesebáchola donádocha.
 Δ: The fire went from EK his eyes to the stone agayn. Then EK his understanding was gone allso.
 Δ: Deo soli sit omnis laus honor 
et gloria per infinita sæculor 
sæcula.1293
 Amen.
Aprilis 6. Saterday affore none hora 10¼
 Δ: The fire shot into EK, as before was used: wherat he startled. All was uncovered, as the manner
 was. But EK had such a whirling and beating inwardly in his hed, that he could not use any Judgment
 to discerne what appered, for half a quarter of an howre almost.
 A Voyce:—SVM.1294
 And agayn—a voyce:—Gahoachma [= Sum quod sum,1295
 EK expownded it.].
 43. Asmar gehótha gabseph achándas vnascor satquama látquataf hun gánses lu
 xim
 lo
 chath
 1296
 ágelo
 ásquapa
 anses dosam váthne gálsador ansech gódamah vonsepaléscoh ádmacah lu zampha
 oh adma zemblodarma varmíga zuna thotob am-phi-cha-nó-sa ge-mi-cha-na-dá-bah Va-de-ma
do Va-se-la-pa-gé-do
 44. A-mas-ca-ba-lo-no-cha a-nó-dah a-du-ra-dá-mah go-na-depha-ge-no v-na-cha-pes-ma-cho
 ge-mi-na-do-cha-pa-mi-ca vu-am-sa-pá-la-ge vocórthmoth achepasmácapha
 em-ca-ni-dobah
 gedóah
 45. Nostoah1297
 geuamna da oscha lus palpal medna go-rum-ba-lógeph a-cap-na-pá-da-pha Vol
sé-ma go-no-gé-do-cha am-bu-sába-loh ge-mú-sa-cha va-mi-li-ó-pha zum-ne-ga-da-phá-ge
pha iuréhoh
 This last word was hid a prety while with a rym like a thin bladder affore it: and when it was
 perfectly seen then there appered a bluddy cross over it. It is a Word signifying what Christ did in hel
 .
 46. Zém-no-da amni fa chebseth vsángrada bo-sa-dó-ma zú-macoh a-phi-na-bá-cha buzádbazu a
ma-cha-pa-do-mi-cha zu-ma-ne-pas-só NA vuamanábadoth zum-ble-gám-pha zum-ble-cap-há
ma-cha 1298
 EK: All is couered with darknes. Terrible flashes of fire appered and they semed to wreath and
 wrap, one abowt an other. In the fire ouer the chayre appered, the three heds which appeared before.
 A Voyce:—Laua zuráah.1299
 ∆: After our prayers was a very hevenly noyce hard.
 47. Zudneph arni ioh pan zedco lamga nahad lébale nochas arni cans lósmo iana olna dax
 zémblocha zedman púsatha vámo mah oxex párzu drána ánza pasel lúmah cóxech á-da-max
 gónboh alze dah lúsache1300
 1301
 1302
 asneph gedma noxdrúma Vamcáphnapham ástichel rátrugem
 abnath lonsas masqueth tauínar tadna gehodód gaphrámsana asclor drusáxpa
 48. Amgédpha
 lazad ampha ladmaáchel galdamicháël
 Vn’za dédma Luz zácheph pílathob
 ganó vamah zúnasch zemblagen ónman zuth catas max ordru iadse lamad caphícha aschal luz.
 ampna zod-mí-na-da ex-cá-pha-nog sal-gém-pha-ne Om vrza lat quartphe lasque deth ürad ox
ma-ná gam-ges
 [The 49th row followeth after 2 leaves: Arney vah nol, &c.]
 ∆: Now the boke was couered with a blew silk
 sindall1303
 and uppon that blew covering appered
letters of gold, conteyning these words,
 Amzes naghézes Hardeh1304
 EK: It signifieth, the universall name of him that created universally be praysed and extolled for
 euer.
 ∆: Amen
 A Clowde covered the boke.
 A Voyce:—Mighty is thy Name (ô lorde) for euer.
 EK: It lightneth.
 A Voyce:—The place is Holy: stur not [sayd the three heds].
 ∆: Now appered to EK, some imperfection passed in the eleuenth row. And that we wer towght
 how to amend it: and so we did.
 ∆: Then the firy light went from EK into the stone agayn: and his inspired perceyuerance and
 understanding
 was gone: as often before it used to be.
 ∆: Gloriam laudemque nostri Creatoris, omnes Creaturæ. indesinenter resonent:1305
 Halleluiah Halleluiah Halleluiah 
Amen.
 Amen.
Aprilis 6. Saterday after none.
 ∆: The Table, Chayre, boke and fyre appeared. And while I went into my oratorie1306
 cam thrise out of the stone uppon EK, as he was at prayer, at my table in my study.
 EK hard a voyce out of the fyre, saying,
 Why do the Children of men prolong the time
 to pray, fire
 of theyr perfect felicitie: or why are they dedicated to
 vanitie? Many things ar yet to come: Notwithstanding, the Time must be shortned,
 I AM THAT I AM.
 A voyce: Veniet1307
 Vox eius, ut dicat filijs hominum quæ ventura sunt.355
 EK: here is a man, in white, come in, like Uriel, who cam first into the stone.
 ∆: Benedictus qui venit in nomine Domini.356—Ur: Amen.
 Ur:—I teache: EK sayd that he turned toward me.
 Ur: What willt thow I shall answer thee, as concerning this work?
 EK: He hath a ball of fire in his left hand and in his right hand a Triangle of fyre.
 ∆: What is the most nedefull for us to lerne herin, that is my chief desire.
 Uriel:—Fowre monthes, are yet to come: The fifth is the begynning of great miserie, to the heauens
 ,
 to the earth and to all liuing Creatures.357 Therfore must thow nedes attend uppon the will of God:
 Things must then be put in practise. A thing that knitteth up all must of force conteyn many celestiall
 Vertues. Therfore, in these doings, must things be finished spedyly,
 1308
 This, is the light, wherewith 
thow shalt be Kindled.
 1309
 and with reuerence
 This is it, that shall renew thee: yea agayn and agayn, and, seventy seuen tymes, agayn.
 Then shall thy eyes be clered from the dymnes. Thow shalt perceyue these
 1310
 .
 things which haue
 not byn seen, No, not amongst the Sonnes of men.
 This1311
 other haue I browght, whereof I will, now, bestow the seventith part of the first part of
 seuenty seuen. The residue
 shall be fullfilled, in, and with thee; In, (I says,) and 
to gither,
 with thee
 Behold (sayth the lord) I will breath uppon men, and they shall haue the spirit of Understanding.
 .
In 40 dayes
 1312
 must the boke of the Secrets, and key of this world be Written
 : euen as it is manifest
 to the one of you in sight, and to the other in 
faith
 . Therfore haue I browght it to the wyndow of thy
 senses, and dores of thy Imagination: to the ende he may see and performe the tyme of God his
 Abridgment.1313
 That shalt, thow,
 1314
 write down in his propre and sanctified distinctions
 This other, (pointing to EK) shall haue it allwayes
 before him, and shall daylie
 .
 performe the office
 to him committed. Which if he do not, the Lord shall raze his name from the number of the blessed,
 and those that are annoynted with his blud.
 1315
 his Thunder
 1316
 For, behold, what man, can speak, or talk with the spirit of God? No flesh is hable to stand, whan
 the voyce of 
shall present the parte of the next leaf unto sight
 .
 You haue wauering myndes, and are drawn away with the World: But brittle is the state therof:
 Small therfore are the Vanities of his Illusion.
 Be of sownd faith. Beleue. Great is the reward of those that are faithfull. God Will not be
 dishonored, neyther will suffer them to receyue dishonor, that honor him in holiness.
 Behold, Behold, Mark ô and Behold: Eache line hath stretched him self, euen to his ende:1317
 and
 the Middst is glorious to the good, and dishonor to the wicked. Heuen and erth must decay: so, shall
 not the words of this Testimonie.
 ∆: Ecce seruus et misellus homuncio Dei nostri, fiat mihi iuxta beneplacitum voluntatis suæ:1318
 &c.
 ∆: Uriel toke a little of the fire in his left hand and flung it at EK: and it went in at his mowth.1319
 Ur: My message is done.
 ∆: May I Note Ur, (meaning Uriel,) for your name who now deale with us?—Ur:—I am so.
 ∆: I pray you to give us advise what we are to doo in our affayres.
 Ur: It is sayde.
 ∆: He sayd to EK, Tell him, I haue told him, and seemed to smile.
 ∆: Of Mistres Haward (Jentlewoman1320
 of her Maiesties priuie chamber) I wold fayn know,
 wherfore we were not warned of her comming? She hath caused us, now, for an howre or two, to
 intermit our exercise? Is it the Will of god, that for her great charitie used toward many, (as in
 procuring the Quenes Maiesties Almes to many nedy persons) the lord entendeth to be mercifull to
 her? I meane at the pynche of these great miseries ensuing, now (by you) told of. And that by her, I
 may do good seruice concerning the Quenes Maiesties Cumfort
 ?
 Ur:—Who is he, that opened thy mowth, or hath told thee of things to come? What thow hast sayd,
 is sayde. Mark the ende.1321
 It is a sufficient answer.
Ur:—Loke up.—∆: He sayd so to EK: who loking up, saw the boke, the chayre and the Globe a
 part, abroad, out of the stone, and then, none remayning in the stone to be seene: and it cam nearer &
 nearer to him, and it burned, as before.
 Ur: So, set down, what thow seest. [∆: The boke and writing was made very playne to him.]
 What thow seest, deliuer unto him. 
As it is his will, so be it unto thee: 
Do thy duty, whereunto thow art moved, 
and it shalbe sufficient.
 Farewell, for a time.
 EK: Now is all couered with a white clowde, such an one as I saw not yet.
 ∆: We put up the stone: and the former boke and other furniture, appeared uppon the table hard by
 EK: and he was to write out as he saw: which he began to do, both in character and words: but it was
 to cumbersome to him: and therfore he wrote onely the words in latin lettres.
 ∆: After he had written 28 lines there in that paper boke, the first word being Arney
 , and the last,
 being nah
 suddenly all was taken away out of his sight: and so likewise his understanding of that he
 had written was quite gone. For, contynually as he wrote, he understode the language and sense
 thereof, as if it had byn english.
 ∆: After he had finished that second page1322
 of the first leafe, I then did copy it out as followeth.
 49.1323
 Arney1324
 vah nol gadeth1325
 adney ox vals nath gemseh ah orza val gemáh, oh gedvá on
 zembáh nohhad vomfah olden ampha nols admácha nonsah vamfas ornad, alphol andax o’rzadah
 vos ansoh hanzah voh adma iohá notma goth vamsed adges onseple ondemax orzan, vnfa onmah
 vndabra gonsah gols nahad NA.
 1. Oxar varmol pan sampas os al pans orney an
 dsu
 alsaph ou
 cha1326
 cosdám on-za-go-les
 natmátatp max, olnah von ganse pacath olnoh vor nasquah loth adnay nonsah oxansah vals
 nodax vonqueth lan sandquat ox arda’nh onzâbel ormach douquin astmax arpagels ontipodah
 omvah nosch als mantquts, armad
 1327
 notgals. Vantantquah +
1328
I finde diuerse dowts which I cannot order, to my contentment. 1329
 1. How many of my ruled leaves, shall I tak for the writing of the first leafe?
 2. How shall I make the distinctions of the last 9 lines of the first leafe answerable to all the
 former words: how is more then two hundred & some are of 3 hundred letters, & top 9
 rows have but 49 letters.
 3. how shall I do for the true orthographie, Seing g and C and p &c haue so diuerse sownds,
 & not allwayes one: as g sometymes as gh & sometymes as J. And C sometymes is like
 K, sometymes is like S. p sometymes is like ph, & sometymes is p—& sometymes f.
 4. The number of the words in the first leafe,—every row, is not all one; nor 49 allwayes.
 5. of the 2nd Table, when is to be set down all the tables following, all the table ... will not
 agree to fill up ...all places & to set down the ... perfectly.
 2. Ondroh als vrh. panchah orn sandvah loh andah nol pan, sedmah zugeh als ab-mi-cad-am-pâ
get ordomph, axah gethol vav axel anthath gorsan vax parsah vort lanq an‘damsah getheol,
 vrchan navádah o’xembles armax lothar, vos antath, orsé vax alnoth, other mals olnah gethom
 várdamach, alls;1330
 Orgeth
 3. Or pasquah omzádah vorts, ange‘nodah varsáua onch aldúmph, ánget ónsaual gálta oth
 aneth ax pa gesné ouád ax orneh al-dum-bá-ges vos-cómph alze ax, orzad andah gost
 astoh nadah vortes, astmah notesma goth nathad omza, geth altéth ox, degáth onda voxa
 gemnaché adna dansa als alst
 4. arsah. Orthath ols gast ardoh max vármah doth novámq lath, adnab gothan, ardri’noh
 astómagel arpáget asteth arde obzá, ols NA
 1331
 gem-na-pá-la-ba-m’i-da orsat nahah
 Odmázen an’dulphel, ox ambrássah oxah géth nor vamfah genoh daqueth als astna, oh
tatóh, alsah goth necor andeoh neo alda nah1332
 5. Vanlah oha demagens on sunfah, paphah olemneh, ózadcha lax ornah vor adme ox
 vastmah gu labazna, gamnácho asthmah ochádo landrídah vons sah, lúgho iahat
 nabscham nohads vandispa rossámod androch alphoh, zúmbloh ásnah gonfageph aldeh lo
 dah vax orh asmo, gad au dansequa deo, dath vax nograh vor segbat Mon.
 6. Arni olbah galpa lohánaha gáu-pu-ma-gén-sah ollo var se darsah goho ál-bu-mi-clá-má
ca-pá-loth ieho nad veslah vors ardno inmony asquam rath als vásmah génda loggahah
 astmu.1333
 7. Arnah notah lax vart luhoh désmaph, ol ca-pra-mi-na-cah1334
 ox-and-an-vah gem-ne-lo
ri-pli-ton-pha ac-cam-plah-no-stapha or-max-a-da-ha-har or-zem-bli-zad-mah pan-che
fe-lo-ge-doh áschah ólmah ledóh vaxma
 8. Gans na cap lan seda ax nor vorza vo laspral onsa gem gemah noph gázo na von santfa
 nostradg ansel vnsa pah vort velsa or alda viax nor adroh semneh ols vandésqual olzah
 nolpax pahah lothor ax ru vansar glímnaph gath ardot ardri axa noh gaga leth arde maxa.
 9. Corsal mabah noplich alps arsod vord vanfax oriox nabat gemnepoh laphet Ióda nat
 vombal nams ar geth alloah néphirt. lauda noxa voxtaf ardno ándroch labmageh ossu
 állmaglo ardot nalbar vanse dar-to vorts parsan vr vnrah vor gádeth leth orze nax
 vomreh agelpha, legar or nembla ar vah Su.1335
 10. Zanchcumáchaseph, ol-za-mi-nó-ah Vals-e-bú-ra-ah no-da-ligá-nax or-sáp-na-go dar
ság-na-pha nob-si-blith ar-mi-pyth ar-se-pó-lo-ni-tan-tons Jem-búl-sa-mar le-bó-ge axpar
 or-ná-za ol-dax-ar-da-co-ah1336
 11. Semno ah al-chi-do-á-cha-da Sel-pag-in-o-dah a-da-hu-bámi-ca-noh dam pah gli ás cha
 nor
 ox-om-pa-mi-na-pho lemp, na, gón sa pha ne co ál pha as pa gé mo cal na tú ra ge
 12. Sen gál se quar rus fa glan súx taft
 1337
 ormaca ox i no dál ge brah nop tar ná gel vom na
 ches pál ma cax
 , arsep as dón sadg asc lan fán che dah nor vi car máx coh zum bla
 zánpha
 ad geh do ca ba ah
 13. Ar gém na ca pál fax, orr-nído hab cás pigan alpuh
 vólsan qués tan
 ondapha opicab or zy lá pa
 gágah loth ral sá bra dan go sá pax
 a-chra-pa-má-les ad má car pah
 oxalps on dá
 pa, gém na de vór guse
 14. Lat gans sa par sat lastéah lor ádah nóxax ardéphis nónson andoh gv‘mzi vor sab líboh
 ad ni sa pa loth
 gaho lar va noxa oho lan sempah noxa Vriah sephah lúsaz odgálsax
 nottaph ax v’rnoc árpos arta zem zubah lothor gas lubah vom zá da phi cár no
 15. As-só-ta-phe on-dah vor ban sanphar pa loth agno iam nésroh am algórs vrrábah geuseh
 alde ox nah vors púrblox ámphicab nóstrohh admág1338
 or napsú asmo Ion gamphi arbel
 nof ámphi on Saubloth aschi nur laffax las doxa pra gem a Sestrox amphi nax var
 sembbh1339
 16. Angésel oxcapácad onz adq ochádah ólzah vor náh orpogógraphel al sa gem ua ca pí
 coh vl da pa pór sah
 naxor vonsa rons vrbanf lab dún zaph
 algadef loh gem vortaóh amph
 ahoha za vaxorza leph1340
 oxor neoh ah va du-na-ca pi ca lodox
 ard nah.
 17. Iahod vox ar pi cah lot tár pi ges nol zim na plah ge ó gra plih ne gó ah va lu gán zed am
 phí la doh zan veh
 al nex oh al pha ze goth gedóth axor van zebá al cá pa
 de oh ah
 1341
 Luma ges ard
18. Onchas lagod van Sebageh oxangam pah gos dah manzeh ocondah vardol Sebagh ol
 madan NA ohal Sepaget, otoxen narvah lubatan ansem nofet au naba notoh ax arsah
 mans Vstgam pahod pah mal sednah gestons amphes al manso gapalebâton arra nax
 vamfes amah dot agen nalphat ar zamne oh Sages
 19. nax lerua nath Zembloh axpadabamah Sanzápas gunzanquah 1342
 ona var demneh gah
 lod vmnah doxa val tarquat mans ol gem nageph au zanbat vx anzach al pambóha
 naxtath ol nada vam nonsal aua nal gedot vorx alge lah despa gu prominabâmîgah olpaz
 ord gamnat lem paz cath normadah on demq
 20. Laffah ie ogg dalseph abrimanadg oldomph ledothnar ymnachar onze vam sepno
 voxauaret ol zantqur amph nas Sages om nartal vor miscam bemcax lappad gesso drux
 capgol ass letnar vom1343
 sausah or gamprida ornat vol asmd onza duh get hansa gorh
 hubra galsaropah nequax dap gemno ab pnidah noxd lumbam
 21. al gethroz ax arvan oh zempal guh arvax no demnat ar pambals nop nonsal geh axor
 pam vartop ab vbrah cardax Ion songes au dumax ar nephar lu gemne om Asda vorts
 vmrod val manqh noh Sam, naga vrbrast Lurvandax vpplod dam zurtax loa an avarn nar
 gemplicabnadah oxa
 22. nooa Babna ampha dum nonsap vrs daluah marsasqual orma nabath Sabaothal netma
 vol sempra isch laue ondeh noh semblax or mansa macapal vngenel vorsepax vrsabada
 noxanquah vndalph asmoh vxa na Gaspar vmpaxal Lapproh Iadd nomval vp setquam nol
 astma vors: vrdem gnasplat bef affafefafed noxtah Volls laydam ovs nac
 23. cedah or manveh geh axax nolsp damva dor demgoh apoxan Subliganaxnarod orchal
 vamnad vez gemlehox ar drulalpa ax vr samfah oladmax vr sappoh Luah vr pabmax luro
 lam faxno dem vombres adusx or sembal on vamne oh lemne val se quap vn nap nastosm
 dah voz mazax lumato games on neda.1344
 24. voh gemse1345
 ax pah losquan nof afma dol vamna vn samses oh set, quamsa ol danfa
 dot santa on anma ol subracah Babalad vansag olso pas gonred vorn chechust axaroh
 rugho am nadom val sequot ne texpa vors vrs al pam vans na tomvamal ansipamals
 notems anqearxe al
 25. pangef offd ne pamfah aliboh a nostâfâges almesed vrmast geus vrmax au semblox satq
 quayntah luzez arne noh pamna sams bantes orn volsax vors vnisapa monsel dah nax ah
 pah vomreb doth danséqox anzazed onz anfal nom vamreh volts vrnacapácapah noshan
 yalt gelfay nor sentqbt onbanzar luntaf val sentepax
 26. ornisa nor Pampals anz alpah nox noxa gendah von gamne dah vors ad na lepnazu
 acheldaph var honza gune alsaph nal vomsan vns alpd a domph ar zemnip ans vrnach
 vancef ban yanzem ob aha vons nabrah vh asmo drat vormez al pasquar no gems nah
 zem lasquith apsantah
 27. Vol zans alphi ne gansad ol pam ro dah vor vngef a deoh nad vnsemel apodmacah vnsap
 val vndar ban cefna dux hansel yax nolpah volts quayntah gam vemneg oh asq al panst
 ans vntah hunsansa Apnad ratq a sanst nel odogamanázar. olzah guh oh nah varsa
 vpangah neoh aho
 28. Notgah ox vr auonsad vl dath nox lat ges orn val sedcoh leth arney vas ars galep
 odámpha nol axar vox apracas nolph admi adpálsah noh vrh gednach vax varsablox
 vrdam pagel admax lor vamtage oxandah lamfó nor vorsah axpáa, ols nugaphar ádras
vxár nostrílgan ampacoh vortes lesqual exoh.
 29. Ses vah nómre gal sables orzah, get les part, ox ar se de cólmachu ardéh lox gempha lar
 vamra goh naxa vors admah gebah, semfúgel admá geod alzeh orzam vánchet.1346 oxam
 prah geh orzad Val nexo, vam seleph oxa, noha par gúmsah askeph nox adroh lestof ad
 moxa nonsúrrach
 30. Vomchál as pu gán san var, sem quáh lah set gedoh argli oranza vor zina sedcátah
 zuréhoh admich, ors arsah varsab, oliba vortes lúnsanfah, adnah vor semquáx, vorsan lap
 varsah gebdah voxlar geoh, gemfel ad gvns. aldah gor vanlah, gehudan vor sableth,
 gedvel ax ors, manch var sembloh.1347
 31. Ar dam fa gé do hah Luxh arcan Mans lubrah vor semblas adna gor partat, nor vílso
 ádchu apri sed amphle nox arua getol. Vor sambla geth, arse pax vor sah. gelh aho
 gethmah or gemfa nah prax chilad ascham na prah oxáh var setqua lexoh vor sámbleh
 zubrah.
 32. Lax or setquáh vah lox rémah Nol sadma vort, famfa le gem nah or sepah vartef a geh
 Oha Ion gaza Onsa ges adrux: vombalzah ah vaxtal. noh sedo lam, vom tántas oxárzah
 Mechól va zebn geth adna vax, ormacha lorni adrah, Gens arnah vor, Arsad odiscoh
 alidah nepho.
 33. Hastan bah ges loh ru mal; vrabro den varsah, Mah rox idah ru gebna demphe, ors amvi
 ar, Genbá, óxad va ges lath vriop: nal pas vi me ró to ád-na-vah ged anse lah verbrod vn
 gelpa, lux árd do ah vast vor Ge-ma-fá-noh
 34. Amles ondanpha1348 noxt vradah gel núbrod Arb á cha lo pe go há pa ra zem che pár
 ma la Na bu-rá doh gem la pa or-zín fax nol ad micápar vó si pi cá la ton andrah vox
 ardno, get na ca ploh gál-zun
 35. O‘r ge mah luza cá poh nox tráh víoxah nebo hu ge o mí lah cox chá dah or na hú da vol
 sa pah: No bro ch, ál pa chídomph náb la grux la vx ar gá fam gel ne do gá lah vo sa pah
 36. Gu la gé dop áx ix óx a max lun fá gem pah orsa dev’lmah Gé pa cha vor sí ma coh
 alduth gempfa: Nox gal max ar hú gaf gli no rob va gen lá car du zum ox am’ pli zam zu
 latmah ge gé ma ohahah
 37. Ga lá pa drux váx ma geb lá geb or ché plon gan zéd ah Vox ár vox gelet ar gahad, gan
 pá gan doruminaplah vor zinach cû pa chef ardrah óx ox pol sa gal máx nah guth ardéth
 on zupra cró cro gash var sa má nal
 38. Ar sa bá choas noh al geh oh, ax ár pa gal olza déh or za zú max exoh eh, or cah pal
 donzahá onza zethas: nor sáp se pah onzap a palmah aldoh voh náblebah gemnápam os
 malsa or naoh zar bu lagém pah ne-ó ha brah
 39. Tal gep ar sep nah doh, vors alsa doh necoh am ar geth na ges alpran odox malsápnah,
 gohor ahoh gadmah ol dáneph aludar dón-za-gab ól-sa-gah nebthuh or sapnar balgonph
 nep gemloh, ax amna1349 duth achár laspá, vohá, náxvolh gas vergol ah pratnom geá1350
 nostúamph
 40. Va’n sa pal sah gón so gon gé la bu rá doh tato lang, ge mé fe ran ón da pans ge lá brah:
 or pa gé mal on sán’ fan gen ólc ma cha lan Von sé gor a prí cas nor vá gel om brá cau
 cohadal.
 
a d r o s,a, c l o d f a c,d o g é p n a h,l a p c a h,m o c d á c o d e,f a m ó n,t u a l c,d o m, v r á s n a g
 e p h,a m p h i d o n,g á n s e l,v a x,ó r e h a m a h,v ó r s a f a n s a,u c a s d a m í f a g a,n á b u l a
 x,o r s a g e h,n a m’v a h,o c a r,l u n s a n g e l,c a r p a c o a. l u n s e m n e p h,o d á r n a c h o h,z e
 m b l o h,o b l í c a n d o n,g a l s o r x v l á g a, f ó m n a p h,a p á n s a g e h,l o n s ú g a l a n,g r a s
 t,v b l á n s o,a r n o x,v o n s á o t a l t é m a p h e c h,ó r m a c h a d á g e n o x,v r s t á m v a h,n a d
 v a r e h,o n s,a r g z u c á n z u,n a p l i o r a h,n o r g e,h a h a n a h a,v s p l a h,g r a d ú n v a h,n a v
 i o, a r s a h,v ó n r o g e n,d a h v a l a h,o r z a p,c v l,c a r s e d,a p o r s a l,q á s t a v a, g a n f ú m a
 r a b ó m o n a h,g á s t a g e s,ó r d o l p h,n a q a s,o r g e m v a h,n o x a d.
 ∆: And this is the late ende of the second page of the first leafe of this excellent boke. The other
 leaves are written, apart, in an other boke1351
 as may appere. But with these 9 rowes and the former
 41, doth arise the some of 50: which is one more then 49: Therfore I am not onely of this but of
 diuerse other imperfections yet remayning in this page, to ax the solution and reformation.
 ∆: Whan I had told this my dowte to EK, he answered me that the first row of these last .50. before
 set downe, was the last of the first page of this first leafe: and true it is that in the first page were first
 sett down 48 rows, of which eight and fortith row begynneth with this word Amgédpha &c And
 therfore the next row following, (begynning with Arney vah nol gadeth &c) is the nyne and fortyth
 row of the first page and so the last row of that page: And therby allso the second page of the first leaf
 hath these 49 rowes here noted: And so is one dowte taken away: The other is of the numbers of
 words in some of the 49 rows of this second page.
Aprilis 10. hor. 9.
 ∆: As we wer talking of the Macedonian (the grecian), who yesterday cam with Mr. Sanford his
 letters, there appeared in the corner of my study a blak shadow: and I did charge that shaddow to
 declare who he was: There cam a voyce and sayd that it was the Macedonian: and abowt his hat was
 written in great letters this word, 
1352
 or condemnatus1353
 , which EK wrote out and it signifieth maculosus,
 &c. and the Voyce sayd, that word was sufficient
 adding Est,1354
 ∆: God be thanked and praysed.
 To me deliuered by Mr. 
Edward Kelly 
1583. Martij 22 
Friday
 Mr. Husy cam with 
him from blokley1355


Aprilis .11. Thursday
 ∆: After my comming home from the court abowt 4 of the clok after none, and after my being in my
 study a while, it cam into my hed to assay1356
 browght me by EK,1357
 to deciphre the cifre which before is spoken of, and was
 as he was willed to do.
 And at the first I was half out of all hope: but yet
 making many assayes, and gessing at it (at the length) to be latine, I fownd this to be the true Alfabet.
 God giving me the perseyverance.
 And, the first longer writing, was thus:
 Tabula locorum rerum et Thesaurorum absconditorum Menaboni, mei Gordanili, militis, et
 Danaorum Principis, expulsi, multorumque aliorum clarissimorum (Britanie meridionali parte)
 virorum, contra eiusdem inhabitatores militantium: quam, hîc, familiarissimorum consensu,
 aliquando ad nostratium rediuntium commoditatem et auxilium abscondere et sepelire decreui:
 qua quidem intellecta, facile possunt ad lucem abscondita efferre.1358
 And the Notes of the ten places, here by, affixed: are thus to be red orderly:
1359
 ,1360
Aprilis 15. Monday
 ∆: As EK was writing the eightenth leaf which was of the spirites of the earth,
 (in the after none
 abowt 4½ of the clok) he red a parcell therof, playnely & alowde to him self, and thereuppon
 suddenly at his syde appeared three or fowre spirituall creatures like laboring men, having spades in
 theyr hands & theyr heares hangyng abowt theyr eares, and hastyly asked EK what he wold have, &
 wherfor he called them.
 He answered that he called them not. & they replyed, & sayed that he called
 them: Then I began to say, they lyed: for his intent was not to call them, but onely to read and repeat
 that which he had written: and that euery man who readeth a prayer to perceyue the sense thereof,
 prayeth not.
 No more, did he call them. And I bad them be packing out of the place: and thereuppon
 remoued from my desk (where I was ruling of paper for his writing) to the grene chayre which was by
 my Chymney: and presently he cryed out and sayd they had nipped him and broken his left arme by the
 wrest:
 and he shewed the bare arme and there appered both on the upper syde and lower side
 imprinted depe-in, two circles as broad as grotes1361
 thus:
 very red: And I seeing that, sowght for a stik, and in the meane while, they assalted him,
 and he rose,
 and cryed to me (saying) they come flying on me, they come; and he put the stole, which he sat on,
 betwene him and them. But still they cam gaping, or gyrning1362
 at him. Then I axed him where they
 were: and he poynted to the place: and then I toke the stik and cam to the place, and in the name of
 Jesus commaunded those Baggagis to avoyde and smitt a cross stroke at them: and presently they
 avoyded.1363
 All thanks be to the onely one Almighty, and everlasting God Whose name be praysed now & ever.
 Amen.
Aprilis 18
 1364
 . Thursday morning .hor. 8. Circiter
 ∆: As EK cam to write-out the Tables according as he was wont: and to haue the letters appearing in
 the ayre hard by him, he saw nothing but a blak clowde seven-cornered. And after I had put the stone
 agayne into the frame,
 1365
 and thereuppon did make long and oft request, for answer hauing, There
 appered nothing, neyther was anything seen in the stone. Then I fell to prayer agayn, and at length,
 there appeared written uppon, or yssuing out of the clowde, this sentence.
 He promised, be not carful:
 ∆: Note here are iust 21 letters.1366
 EK: The letters semed to stand at fingers endes, (being 21): and so euery finger had a letter on it:
 and the fingers semed to be placed at the Corners of the Heptagonall clowde: and as sone as the
 sentence was red the fingers which seemed to issue out of the Heptagonum, did shrink in agayn and
 disapere.
 ∆: All laude honor and thanksgiving, be to the highest, our most louing mercifull and almighty God,
 now and euer. Amen.
Thursday. Aprilis 18. after dynner
 ∆: We being desirous to know the cause of this stay making, in the Tables shewing as before was
 accustomed; and now (24 leaves being written,) a dark clowde to hang in the place of a glorious
 boke, did greatly disquiet our myndes, and browght us in feare of some offence lately committed, by
 any one, or both of us, whereby the Indignation of the lord might be kingled against us. Hereuppon we
 prayed severally; and at length, (no alteration, or better Cumfert hapening to us,) I prayed in the
 hearing of EK, (by my desk, on my knees) in great agony of mynde; and Behold, there appeared one
 standing uppon, or rather somwhat behynde the Heptagonall clowde who sayd,
 I am sent, to understand the cause of your greif, and to answer your dowtes.
 ∆: I, then, declared my mynde breifly, according to the effect of my prayer. Whereunto he answered
 at large, reproving my appointing of god a tyme
 or to abridge the tyme spoken of: and among his
 manifold grave speaches he had these words,
 Prepare all things,1367
 His Justice is great;
 For tyme is at hand. 
and his arme stronge.
 How darest thow dowt or dreame, saying: Lo, God, this may be done in shorter time &c. But such
 is flesh.
 Be rocks in faith. 
It is not the manner of us, good Angels,1368
 so oft.
 1369
 to be trubbled
 At the time appointed, thow shalt practise: While sorrow shall be measured, thow shalt bynde up thy
 fardell.
 Great is the light of Gods sinceritie. Appoint God no tyme. Fullfill that which is
 commaunded. God maketh clere whan it pleaseth him. Be you constant and avoyde Temptations: For
 True it is, that is sayde: And lastly I say,
 It shall be performed.
 What is it now thow woldest desyre to be made playner?
 ∆: Still he proceded uppon my answers: and at length he sayd,
 Neyther is the time of mans Justification known untyll
 he hath byn tried.1370
 
You are chosen by God his mercy to an ende1371 and purpose: Which ende shall be made manifest
 by the first begynning in knowledg in these Mysteries.
 God shall make clere whan it pleaseth him: & open all the secrets of wisdome whan he unlocketh.
 Therfore Seke not to know the mysteries of this boke, tyll the very howre1372 that he shall call thee.
 For then shall his powre be so full amongst you, that the flesh shall not be perceyued, in respect of his
 great glory.
 But was there euer any, that tasted of gods mercies so assuredly, that wanted due reverence?1373
 Can you bow to Nature, and will not honor the workman? Is it not sayd, that this place is holy? What
 are the works of holines? I do aduertise you: for, God will be honored. Neyther will he be wrasted, in
 any thing he speaketh. Think not, that you could speak or talk with me, unleast I did greatly abase my
 self, in taking uppon me so unlikely a thing in forme, as to my self, &c.1374 But he doth this not for
 your causes, not for your deserts, but for the Glorie of his owne name.
 One is not to be lightened, but all. And, which all? The two fethered fowle togither with the
 Capitayn.
 Ask What thow wilt: for, untyll the 40 dayes1375 be ended, shalt thow haue no one more shew of us.
 ∆: Whether shall we give Cownsayle, or consent to the Captayne1376 to go down into his Cuntry, as,
 presently he entendeth.
 Ur:—As he listeth. ∆: EK sayd that this was Uriel who now had appered and answered all this.
 Ur:—I will ask thee one question. Haue we any voyce or no?
 ∆: I do think you haue no organs or instruments apt for voyce: but are mere spirituall and nothing
 corporall: but that you haue the powre and property from god to insinuate your message or meaning to
 eare or eye, in such sort as mans Imagination shall be, that both they here and see you sensibly.
 Ur:—We haue no voyce but a full noyce that filleth euery place:1377 which whan you ones taste of,
 Distance shall make no separation. Let there one come that may better answer: not in respect of thy
 self but one, more nerer to thy estate.1378—Do thy Duty.
 ∆: He sayd this, to one who cam in, and he departed him self.
 ∆: This new come Creature sayd, Wold you haue any thing with me, Il?1379
 ∆: Who art thow: Art thow one that loveth and honoreth our Creator?
 Il: Will you see my hart?—EK: He openeth his body and sheweth his hart: and theron appered
 written EL.
 ∆: He semed to be a very mery Creature, and skypped here and there, his apparell was like as of a
 vyce in a play: and so was his gesture1380 and his skoffing, as the outward shew therof was to be
 vulgarly1381 demed: but I did carefully ponder the pith of the words which he spake: and so forbare to
 write very much which he spake at the begynning by reason EK did so much mislike him, and in a
 manner toke him to be an Illuder.
 ∆: As you are appointed to answer us by the Messager of God, so answer us, (who desyre pure and
 playne verity,) as may be correspondent to his Credit that assigned you, and to the honor of God who
 Created us.
 Il:—My answer is Threefold:1382—I answer by gesture, by my apparayle, & will answer thee by
 my wordes.
 ∆: Do you know where the Arabik boke1383 is that I had: which was written in tables and numbers?
 1384
Il:—It is in Scotland:—A minister hath it; it is nothing worth. The boke conteyneth fals and illuding
 Witchcrafts. All lawde honor and prayse be to the One and euerlasting God: for euer and euer.1385
 The Lord Threasoror,1386
 ∆:
 hath he, any bokes belonging to Soyga? Il:—He hath none: but certayn
 Introductions to all artes.
 ∆: But it was reported to me by this Skryer1387
 that he had: certayn peculier bokes perteyning to
 Soyga: otherwise named ysoga, and Agyos, literis transpositis.1388
 Il:—Soyga signifieth not Agyos. Soyga alca miketh.
 ∆: What signifieth those wordes? The true measure of the Will of God in iudgment which is by
 Wisdome.
 ∆: What language is that, I pray you? Il:—A language towght in Paradise.1389
 ∆: To whome? Il:—By infusion, to Adam. ∆: To whome did Adam use it? Il:—Unto Chevah.1390
 Did his posteritie use the same?
 Il:—Yea, untyll the Ayrie Towre
 1391
 ∆:
 was destroyed.
 ∆: Be there any letters of that language yet extant among us mortall men?
 Il: .... that there be. ∆: Where are they? Il:—ô, syr, I shall make you in loue with your Masterships
 boke.
 ∆: Did Adam write any thing in that language? Il:—That is no question.
 ∆: Belike than, they were deliuered from one to an other by tradition or els Enoch1392
 his boke, or
 prophesie, doth, or may seme, to be written in the same language: bycause mention is made of it in the
 new Testament in Jude his Epistle where he hath, Prophetauit autem de his Septimus ab Adam, Enoch,
 dicens, Ecce venit Dominus in sanctis millibus suis, facere iudicium contra omnes, et arguere omnes
 impios, de omnibus operibus impietatis eorum, quibus impiè egerunt, et de omnibus duris, quæ locuti
 sunt contra Deum peccatores impij &c.1393
 Il:—I must distinguish with you. Before the flud, the spirit of God was not utterly obscured in man.
 Theyr memories
 were greater, theyr understanding more clere, and theyr traditions,
 unsearchable.1394
 most,
 Nothing remayned of Enoch but (and if it pleas your mastership) mowght haue byn
 carryed in a cart. I can not bring you the brass, but I can shew you the bokes. Slepe 28
 1395
 you shall fynde them, under your pillow whan you do rise.
 ∆: As concerning Esdras bokes,1396
 dayes,
 and
 which are missing, what say you? Il: The prophets of the
 Jues1397
 haue them. ∆: But we can hardely trust any thing in the Jues hands, concerning the pure
 veritie: They are a stiff necked people and dispersed all the world ouer.
 Il:—I will shew you a trik. ∆: He lifted up his fote, and shewed the sole of his shoo: and there
 appeared the picture of a man, who seemed to haue a skorf or fowle skynne on his face: which one
 toke of: and then there appered on his forhed these two figures, 
88
 .1398
 I will shew you more then that, to: and will speak to a man shortly, that shall bring Water to wash
 euery mans face.
 ∆: What mean you, by euery man? Shall all men, be made cleane?
 Il:—There is a difference in washing of faces.
 EK: This creature seemeth to be a Woman1399
 by his face: his apparell semeth to be like a Vice1400
 in a play.
 EK: Ar you not a Kinsman to Syngolla?
 Il: I syr, and so are you a kinsman to Synfulla.
 ∆: A man may finde corn in chaf.
Il:—So may you (perchaunce) finde me an honest man in my ragged clothes.
 ∆: This other day, whan I was in dowt of the Grecian (the Macedonian) whether he had any good
 and profownd lerning or no, he was represented spiritually, and abowt his hat in great letters was
 written this greke word : I pray you what doth it signifie? I axed the grecian and
 he sayd,  Il: Loke in your boke. ∆: I toke the common lexicon: and he sayd: No Not that:
 Then I axed if I shold take phauorinus his lexicon:1401
 and he answered, Nor that. And I axed which
 then: and he sayd your boke covered with a white parchment: and I axed, that of Munsteris of Latine
 greke and hebrue? And he sayd, yea: and there you shall finde that Maculosus hath onely that one
 word  longing to it. I loked & so fownd it: which satisfyed me very well.
 ∆: I pray you what say you of Gariladrah;1402
 do you know him? Who long sins1403
 did deale with
 me?
 Il:—Yf he were lesser then I, I durst speak to him: But bycause he is greater then I, I am not to
 speak to him. All under, and nothing above me, I deale.
 Loke in your Tables and there you shall finde an other 
name of his.
 ∆: I remember no such thing. Il:—Consider who hath set me here.1404
 Yf the Truth thow hast
 allready, be of a greater then my self, then is it sufficient. ∆: What day was that name given me?
 Il:—Immediately, sir, after your1405
 Worships last coming.
 ∆: That was Raphaël: And I remember that Gariladrah sayd that he must leave me and his better,
 (Raphael) shuld be my instructor, and that then the same Raphael was in my hed then. &c.
 ∆: Sing a song to his prayse, who created us.
 Il: I will sing a short song.
 Your doings are of GOD: your calling great: 
Go down and seke the Threasor,1406
 and you shall obteyn 
it. 
Take no care: for, this Boke shall be done in 40 dayes.
 Begyn to practise in August.1408
 Serue god before.
 You shall know all thing, ictu oculi.
 1409
 And so, prayse, glory, and eternall singing 
with incessant humilitie be unto thee, Creator that 
hath framed, made and Created all things, for 
euer and euer, Now say you (yf you will). 
Amen. ∆: Amen Amen Amen.
 1407
 Il: After the ende of 40 dayes, go down for the Threasor.1410
 Whan those 40 dayes are done,1411
 than this boke shall be finished. The rest of the time untyll August,1412
 ∆: What labor? Il:—In digging up of those Threasors.
 ∆: Must we nedes dig for them? Il:—Otherwise, yf thow willt.
 ∆: How, I pray you? For to dig without lycence1413
 is for rest, labor, and prayer.
 of the Prince, is dangerous by reason of the
 lawes: and to ax licence, is half an odious sute.
 Il:—Yf thow haue a parcell or part out of euery place of the erth,
 work by the Creatures, whose powre it is to work in such causes:
 in any small quantitie, thow mayst
 which will bring
 it (neuer trust me)
before you can tell twenty.1414
 ∆: He meaneth, Neuer trust him, if it be not so, as he hath sayd.
 Il:—No, neuer trust me, if it be not so:
 ∆: You mean those ten places, marked in the Table, which, last day, I deciphred.1415
 Il:—I mary,1416
 now you hit it. Yea sir, and your chest allso,1417
 it wold do no hurt. Give me one:
 and I will make 40: and give you twenty and take twenty to my self: and whan you haue it, I pray you
 let me haue some little portion for my wife and children.
 ∆: As concerning that Chest, I pray you how cam the Macedonian, or Mr Sanford to know of it, so
 particularly, as he did?
 Il:—Husey told of it, openly, at the bord at braynford1418
 in the hearing of diuerse. The Grecian
 will seke him oute. The Greke in grecia perhaps can finde out Threasor, but not in Anglia.1419
 The
 Greke hath a Threasor in his hed, that will enriche him to be a fole. I was yesterday at London, I met
 with a blak dyer. He had a cupple of rings, that wold giue better instructions. Your Chymney here
 will speak agaynst
 you anon:1420
 yet I am no brik layer.1421
 I must be gone.
 ∆: God, for his infinite mercyes be allwayes praysed, glorified, and extolled of all his Creatures.
 Amen.
 He advised EK to comunicate to me the boke, and the powder,
 and so all the rest of the roll,1422
 which was there fownd: saying, True frends use not to hide any thing eche from other.
 ∆: An old proverb it is. Amicorum omnia comunia.
 Unde, Deo soli omnis exhibeatur 
Laus honor et gloria.1423
 Amen.
 Note: There followeth Quinti Libri Mysteriorum Appendix.1424
Quinti libri Mysteriorum
 Appendix
Aprilis 20.—Saterday
 Δ: This satterday had byn great and eger pangs betwene EK and me: while he wold utterly discredit
 the whole process of our actions: as, to be done by evill and illuding spirites:
 seking his destruction:
 saying that he hath often here to fore byn told things true, but of illuding diuells: and Now, how can
 this be other, than a mockery, to haue a cornerd dark clowd to be shewed him in steade of the playn
 writing, which hitherto he had written out of? and that whan they shold do good in dede that then they
 shrank from us
 : and that he was not thus to leese1425
 his time: But that he is to study, to lerne some
 knowledge, whereby he may liue: and that he was a cume1426
 to my howse, and that he dwelled here
 as in a prison; that it wer better for him to be nere Cotsall playne where he might walk abroade,
 without danger or to be cumbred1427
 or vexed with such sklaunderous fellows as yesterday he was,
 with one little Ned dwelling at the blak raven in Westminster: who rayled at1428
 him for bearing
 witnes of a bargayn made betwene the same Ned (or Edward) and one Lush a Surgien, who was now
 falln in poverty, a very honest man &c: With a great deale of more matter; melancholik, and cross
 overthwartly to the good and patient using of our selues to the accomplishing of this action.
 I replyed,
 and sayd, that we might finde our selfs answered on thursday, as, That God wold clere when it
 pleased him: and that we were not to appoint God a time to performe his mysteries and mercies in;
 shorter then he hath spoken of: And that undowtedly, the occasion of this blak clowd, was some
 imperfection of oures, to be amended and that then, all wold be to our furder cumfort. And as
 concerning his dowting the goodnes of the Creatures, (dealing with us) he was to blame, to say or
 dowt the tree to be yll that bringeth furth good frute: for of these creatures, from the begynning of theyr
 dealing with us unto the last howre,
 we never hard other than the prayse of god, instructions and exhortations to humilitie, patience,
 constancy, fayth &c. The things they promise be such as god can performe, and is for his servyce and
 glory to performe
 : and such as haue byn imparted to man before: and therfore neyther impossible for
 man to enioye agayne, nor unmete for us to hope for: and thowgh his trubbled mynde did dowt, yet my
 quiet mynde, which god hath made ioyfull throwgh his mercyes, and which accuseth me not in this
 action of any ambition, hypocrisie, or disorderly longing, but onely is bent and settled in awayting the
 Lord his helping hand to make me wise for his servyce. (according as long
 tyme my daylie prayer to
 him hath byn): and seing I haue and do ax wisdome
 1429
 at the lord his hands, and put my trust in him, he
 will not suffer me to be so confownded: nether will he offer a stone to his seely children, when in
 tyme of nede they ax bred at his hands: besides that, Voluntatem timentium se faciet deus:1430
 and (by
 his graces) I feare him so, and am so carefull to do that shold pleas him, that I make no accownt of all
 this world possessing, unleast I might enioye his fauor. his mercies and graces.
 And whereas he
 complayned of want, I sayd my want is greater than his: for I was in det allmost 300 pownds,1431
 had
a greater charge than he; and yet for all my 40 yeres
 course of study, many hunderd pownds spending,
 many hundred myles travayling, many an incredible toyle and forcing of my will in study using to
 lerne or to bowlt out some good thing, &c. Yet for all this I wold be very well pleased to be deferred
 yet longer, (a yere or more,) and to go up and down England clothed in a blanket, to beg my bred, so
 that I might, at the ende be assured to atteyn to godly wisdome,
 whereby to do God some service for
 his glory. And to be playne, that I was resolued, eyther willingly to leave this world presently that, so,
 I might in spirit enioye the bottomles fowntayne of all wisdome, or els to pass furth my dayes on earth
 with gods favor and assurance of enioying here his mercifull mighty blessings, to understand his
 mysteries, mete for the performing of true actions, such as myght sett furth his glory, so, as it might be
 evident and confessed, that such things wer done Dextera Domini.1432
 And many other discourses and
 answers I made unto his obiections and dowtes: Afterward [A meridie] I began to speak of the
 trubbles and misery foreshewed to be nere at hand, and by that tyme I had entred a little into the
 Consideration & talk of the matter, he appered that sayd he was called El or Il
 1433
 Now to the matter.
 Δ: What matter?
 Il:—Imust have a Wallet to carry your witt and myne own in.
 ,and sayd
 ,
 Δ: Benedictus qui venit in nomine domini.1434
 Il:—Then I perceyue that I shall haue a blessing. Blessed is the physitien that hath care of his
 patient, before the pangs of death doth viset him.
 Δ:—What think you of that clowdy Heptagonum?
 Il:—Dost thow consider, I go abowt it? I told thee, euery thing I did, was an Instruction. As I can
 not stand stedfastly uppon this, (it self one, and one
 , perfect:) so can not my mowth declare, much
 lesse speak, that you may comprehend it, what this is whereuppon I go.
 EK: He went on the Heptagonon, as one might go on the top of a turning whele: (Δ: as some horses
 use to turne wheles as may appere in Georgius Agricola1435
 de re metallica).
 Il:—I know, what all your talk hath byn: But such myndes, such Infection, such Infection, such
 corruption: and must nedes haue a potion appliable for the cure. But how will you do? I haue
 forgotten all my droggs behinde me. But since I know that some of you are well stored with sufficient
 oyntments, I do entend to viset you onely with theyr help. You see, all my boxes ar empty?—EK: He
 sheweth, a great bundell of empty potichayre1436
 boxes, and they seme to my hearing to rattle.
 Δ: How commeth it, that you pretend to come from a favorable diuine powre to pleasure us, and
 your boxes ar empty.
 Il:—You sayd euen now in your talk, Iovis omnia plena:1437
 yf my empty boxes be vertuous, how
 much more shall any thing be, which I bring not empty?
 Δ: Then I pray you, to say somwhat of the vertue of your empty boxes, bycause we may haue the
 better confidence of your fullnes.
 Il: Will you haue my bill? Δ: Shall we go to the Apothecaries, with your Bill?
 Il: I will shew it: Serve it, where you list.
 Iudra galgol astel.
 Δ: You know we, understand it not: how can it be serued?
 Il:—You must nedes haue an expositor. What boke of physik is that, that lyeth by you?
 [Δ: There lay by me on my desk, Marcus Heremita de Lege spirituali 1438
 in greke and latine but the
latine translation lay open before, on the left side of which, the sentence began: Non raro per
 negligentiam, quæ circa alicuius rei operationem comittitur, etiam Cognito obscuratur. 1439
 right side, began: Corpus sine mente nihil pt perficere1440
 And on the
 &c.]
 Il:—Mary here is good physik in dede. You fownd my name the other day. Go to my name [Δ: So I
 turned to the second boke and browght sigillum Æmeth: and there chose the Word Ilemese. He than
 axed me, which letter of this name I liked best, and I sayd, L: bycause it conteyned the name
 representing God: El, &c. Then he sayd somwhat farder of the letters, which I wrote not.
 Il:—Go to great M, the second: for this is it that shall serue his turne. Yf this can not serue him, he
 shall haue a medicine, that a horse can not abyde. Use this, and I warrant you, your blindenes will be
 gone.1441
 Δ: It is here, greatly, to be Noted: that I turned in this boke of Marcus, 27 leaues furder: tyll I cam
 to the Quaternio of M, the second and there I fownd this sentence notified (by my lines drawn, and a
 Note in the margent Cor Contritum): Sine corde contrito impossibile est omnino liberari a malitia et
 vilijs. Conterit autem cor tripartita temperantia somni dico et cibi, et corporalis licentiæ. Cæterum
 horum excessus et abundantia voluptatem generat. Voluptas autem prauas cogitationes ingerit repugnat
 verò præcationi et convenienti Cogitationi.1442
 Δ: This being considered by us, we ceased and this instant and thanked God of his mercies, that it
 wold pleas him to make us understand some iust cause whie clowdes now appeared in stede of
 brightnes &c.
 Soli Deo omnis honor laus et gloria.1443
 Amen.
Aprilis 23. Tuesday. mane hor. 8.
 Δ: After our prayer iointly, and my long prayer, at my desk requesting God to deale with us, so, as
 might be most for his glory, in his mercies: not according to our deserts, and frowardnes: &c. At
 length appeared in the stone a white clowde, seven-cornered. And behinde the Clowde a Thunder
 seemed to yssue.
 A Voyce: Whan I gathered you,you were chosen of the myddest of Iniquitie:
 1444
 Whome I haue
 clothed with garments made and fashioned with my owne hand.—I,AM. Therfore,Beleue
 :
 Δ: I prayed, and thanked the highest, that so mercifully regarded our miserie.
 A Voyce: I, AM.
 EK: Now standeth Uriel uppon the clowde, and semeth to loke downward and kneled, saying,
 Æternitie, Maiestie, Dominion and all powre, in heuen the earth, and in the secret partes below, is
 thyne, thyne, yea thyne; and to none els due, but unto thee: whose mercies are infinite, which
 respectest the glorie of thy owne name, above the frowardnes. and perversnes of mans nature:
 which
 swarmeth with synnes, and is couered with Iniquitie: and in the which, there is fownde no place free
 from filthynes and abhomination. Glorie be to thee; ô, all powre: and magnified be thow, in the
 workmanship of thy own hands,
 from time to time, and with out ende of time, from generation to
 generation: and euen amidst and in the number of those, for whome thow hast prepared the flowres of
 thy æternall Garland.
 Beare with them (ô lord) for thy mercyes sake. For, woldest thow seeke . . .1445
 miserie? Whom yf thow sholdest iudge according to thy iustice, How shold thy
 in the myddest of
 Name be glorified so
 in thy self, to
 thy own determination, and writing, sealed before the Creation of the Worldes
 ? The fire
 of thy Justice consumeth thyne own seat; and in thee, is no powre wanting, whan it pleaseth thee, to
 cast down, and gather them to gither, as the wynde doth the Snow, and in-hemme them with the
 mowntaynes, that they may not arrise to synne. But What thow art, thow art: and what thow willt,
 thow canst.
 Amen.
 Δ: Amen.
 Ur:—I haue measured time (sayth the lord) and it is so: I haue appointed to the heauens theyr
 course, and they shall not pass it. The synnes of man shall decay, in despite of the enemy: But the fire
 of æternitie shall neuer be quenched, nor neuer fayle. More, then is, can not, nor may not be sayde. We
 can not be Wittnesses to him which wittnesseth of him self.
Nota et
 Caue
 will endue
 But (this sayeth the Lord), Beholde yf you trubble me ones more, or towche the wings of my
 excellency, before I shall move my self, I will raze you from the earth, as children of perdition
 and 
those that are of quiet myndes. with the strength of my powre.
 1446
 . 
You are not
 faithfull, sayeth the lorde whome you beleue not. Notwithstanding I haue hardened the hart of
 One of you, yea, I haue hardened him as the flynt, and burnt him to gither with the ashes of
 a Cedar: to the entent he may be proued iust in mywork, and great in the strength of my
 Glory
 1447
 Neyther shall his mynde consent to the wyckednes of Iniquitie. For, from Iniquitie I
 haue chosen him,
 to be a first erthely witnes of my Dignitie.
 1448
 Your words are, yet, not offensiue unto God: Therfore, will not we, be offended at any thing that is
 spoken: For it must be done1449
 and shall stand; yea and in the number
 Note
 which I haue allready chosen.
 But, this sayeth the Lord: Yf you use me like worldlings I will suerly stretch out my arme uppon
 you, and that heuily.1450
 Lastly, I say,
 Be Faithfull, 
Honor God truely. 
Beleue him hartily.
 EK: He kneleth down, and semeth to pray.—Now he standeth up.
 Note
 Ur: Lo, As a number increasing is allwayes bigger: so in this world decreasing, the Lord must be
 mightily glorified. Striue not with God: But receyue, as he imparteth.
 1451
 The Mercy of my
 message, quencheth the obscuritie and dullnes of your sowles: I mean of the Infection,
 wherewithall they are poysoned. Lo, how the Earth cryeth vengeance.1452
 sake, it is tyme. Amen.
 Come, for thy Glory
 Δ: Seing it is sayd that in 40 dayes the boke shalbe finished and seing it is sayed that our former
 Instructers shall not come nor appeare to us tyll the boke be finished: And seing here to fore the boke
 used to appere to EK, that he might write, whan so euer he bent him self therto: and seing the same
 boke appeareth not so now: and seing we are desyrous to be fownd diligent in this work, and to omitt
 no Opportunitie wherein the writing therof might be furdred: We wold gladly know; What token, or
 warning shall be giuen us, henceforward, whan due tyme serueth for the same purpose.
 Ur:—Dy in the folly: I haue sayde.
 EK: It thundreth and lightneth abowt the clowde: and now all is vanished away.
 Δ: EK sayd, that at the very begynning of this days action, when he expressed the first Voyce (this
 day), hard of him, his belly did seame to him, to be full of fyre: and that he thowght veryly, that his
 bowells did burne: And that he loked downward toward his leggs, to see if any thing appeared on
 fire: calling to his mynde, the late chance that befell to the Adulterous man and woman by Sainct
 Brydes church in London &c. Allso that whan he had made an ende, he thowght his belly to be wyder,
 and enlarged, muche more then it was before.
 Δ: I sayde certayn prayers to the Almightie our God and most mercifull father, on my knees; and EK
 on his knees likewise, answered diuerse times, Amen.
 After this, we made AG. to understand these the mercies of the Highest: and he reioyced greatly,
 and praysed the Lorde. And, so EK. was fully satisfyed of his Dowtes
 : And AG, and he, were
 reconciled of the great discorde which, yesterday, had byn betwene them, &c.
Non nobis, Domine, Non nobis, 
sed nomini tuo Gloriam omnem 
Laudem et honorem damus, et 
dabimus in perpetuum.1453
 Amen.
Δ NOTE
 Aprilis 26. Fryday
 Δ: By the prouidence of god, and Mr Gilbert his meanes, and pacifying of EK his vehement passions
 and pangs, he cam agayn to my howse: and my wife very willing, and quietted in mynde, and very
 frendely to EK in Word, and cowntenance: and a new pacification on all partes confirmed: and all
 uppon the Confidence of God his servyce, to be faythfully and cherfly intended, and followed in and
 by our actions, throwgh the grace and mercy of the highest.
1583. Aprilis 28. Sonday. after Dynner abowt 4 of the clok.
 Δ: As I and EK had diuerse talks and discourses of Transposition of letters: and I had declared him
 my rule for to know certaynly how many wayes, any number of letters (propownded,) might be
 transposed or altered in place or order: Behold, suddenly appered, the Spirituall Creature, Il, and
 sayd,
 Il:—Here is a goodly disputation of transposition of letters. Chuse, whether you will dispute with
 me, of Transposition, or I shall lerne you.
 Δ: I had rather lerne then dispute. And first I think, that those letters of our Adamicall Alphabet
 haue a due peculier unchangeable proportion of theyr formes,—and likewise that theyr order is allso
 Mysticall.
 Il:—These letters1454
 represent the Creation of man: and therfore they must be in proportion. They
 represent the Workmanship wherewithall the sowle of man was made like unto his Creator.
 But I
 understand you shall haue a paynter shortly.
 Δ:—I pray you, what paynter may best serve for the purpose? Can master Lyne serue the turn well?
 Il: Dost thow think that God can be glorifyed in hell, or can diuells dishonor him? Can Wickednes
 of a paynter, deface the mysteries of God
 ? The truth is, I am come to aduertise you, least with a small
 error you be led, far, asyde.
 Let me see the forme of your Table.1455
 Δ:—I shewed him the Characters and words which were to be paynted rownd abowt in the border
 of the Table.
 Il:—How do you like those letters? Δ: I know not well what I may say. For, perhaps, that which I
 shuld like, wer not so to lyked: and contrarywise what I shold think well of, might be nothing worth.
 Il:—Thow sayest wel.
 Behold, great is the fauor and mercy of God toward those whome he fauoreth. All things are perfect
 but onely that: Neyther what that shewed or deliuered by any good and perfect messager from God. A
 wicked powre did intrude him self;
 1456
 not onely into your societie, but allso into the Workmanship of
 Gods mysteries. Sathan dare presume to speak of the Almighty. Those Characters are diuilish: and a
 secret band of the Diuell.
 But, this sayeth the lord, I will rayse them up, whom he hath ouerthrown:
 and blott oute his fotesteps where they resist my glorie. Neyther will I suffer the faithfull to be led
 utterly awry: nor finally permit darkness to enhemme them for euer. He sayth, I AM, and they1457
 are
 most untrue. But behold. I haue browght thee the truth: that the Prince of reason, God of understanding
 may be apparent in euery part of his Cælestiall demonstration. Therfore, as thow saydst unto me ones,
 So say I now to thee: Serue god.
 Make a square,1458
 of 6 ynches euery way. The border therof let it be (here) but, half an inche: but
 on the Table it self, let it be an inche broad.1459
Euery one of those sides must haue 21 Characters: But, first, at euery corner make a great B.
 Prayer is the key of all good things:
 Δ: After our prayers made, EK had sight (in the stone) of innumerable letters and after a little
 while, they wer browght into a lesser square and fewer letters. First appered in the border opposite
 to our standing place, (which I haue used to call, in fronte Tabulæ) these letters following, beginning
 at the right hand, and proceding toward the left.
1460
 ,1461
 ,1462
 ,1463
 ,1464
 Il: What haue you in the myddle of your Tablet? Δ: Nothing.
 Il: Sigillum Emeth, is to be sett there.
 Il: The rest, after supper.
 Δ: Soli Deo Omnipotenti sit laus perennis.1465
 Amen.
After supper, retorning to our businesse, I first dowted of the heds of the letters in the border, to be
 written, which way they owght to be turned, to the center ward of the Table or from the Center ward.
 Il:—The heds of the letters must be next or toward the center of the square Table or Figure. Diuide
 that within, by 12 and 7.1466
 Δ: I diuided it.
 Il:—Grace, mercy and peace be unto the liuely branches of his florishing kingdom: and strong
 art thow in thy glory, which dost unknytt the secret partes of thy liuely workmanship: and that,
 before the weak understanding of man. Herein is thy powre and Magnificence opened unto
 man: And why? bycause thy diuinitie and secret powre is here shut up in Numero Ternario et
 Quaternario: à quo principium et fundamentum omne huius est tui sanctissimi operis.1467
 For, yf
 thow (O God) be wunderfull and incomprehensible in thyne owne substance, it must nedes
 follow, that thy works are likewise incomprehensible. But, Lo, they shall now beleue, bycause
 they see, which heretofore could skarsly beleue. Strong is the Influence of thy supercelestiall
 powre, and mighty is the force of that arme, which overcommeth all things: Let all powre
 therfore rest in thee; Amen.
 Δ: The Spirituall Creature seamed to eate fyre, like balls of fyre: hauing his face toward me, and
 his bak toward EK.
 Il: Leave oute the Bees of the 7 names of the seven Kings, and 7 Princis: and place them in a
 table diuided by 12 and 7:1468
 the 7 spaces being uppermost: and therein write, in the upper line,
 the letters of the king, with the letters of his Prince
 following next after his name: and so of the
 six other, and theyr Princis: And read them on the right hand from the upper part to the lowest,
 and thow shalt finde, then, the Composition of this Table. Therein they are all
 comprehended,
 sauing certayn letters
 , which are not to be put-in here: By reason that the Kings and Princis do
 spring from God: and not God from the Kings and Princis:
 1469
 Which excellency is
 comprehended, and is allso manifest, in that Third and Fowrth member.
 Rownd abowt the sides [of this square] is euery letter of the 14 names of the 7 kings and
 Princis.
 Hereafter shall you perceyue that the Glorie of this Table surmownteth the glorie of the
 sonne.1470
 All things els appertayning unto it, are allready prescribed by your former instruction.
 I haue no more to say, but God transpose
 your myndes, according to his own will and pleasure. You
 talked of Transposition.
 1471
 Tomorrow I will be with you agayn. But Call not for me, least you incurre
 the danger of the former Curse.1472
1473
Aprilis 29. Monday, a meridie
 Δ: As EK and I wer talking of my boke Soyga, or Aldaraia: and I at length sayd that, (as far, as I did
 remember) Zadzaczadlin, was Adam1474
 by the Alphabet therof, suddenly appeared the spirituall
 creature, which sayd yesterday that he wold come agayn, this day, uncalled: and at his first comming
 he sayd:
 Then, à primo.
 Δ: Qui primus est et nouissimus, Alpha et Omega, misereatur nostri.1475
 Il:—Amen. Glorie be to thee, which art one, and comprehending all. Mervaylous is thy wisdome,
 in those, of whome, thow willt be comprehended.
 A short prayer, but appliable to my purpose.
 Euery prayse, with us, is a prayer.
 Δ: He taketh-of, his pyed1476
 coat, and threw it up on the corner of my desk and then he seemed
 clothed in an ancient doctorly apparayle: and on his hed he had a wrethe of white sylk of three
 braydes.1477
 Il:—Well I will give you my lesson, and so byd you farewell. First I am to perswade you to put
 away wavering myndes.
 Secondly, for your Instruction, in these necessarie occasions, thus it is:
 The owtsides or skyn must be the Centre.1478
 The Flesh must be the owtside.
 There, is one fowndation.
 The Centre it self must be disseuered into 4 æquall partes:
 There is your lesson.
 Δ: We understand not, this dark lesson.
 Il:—The hart must be the fowrth part of the body; and yet the body perfect and sownd. The Skynne
 must occupy the place of the hart and yet without deformitie. God is the begynning of all things: The
 fardest parte of all things is in the hands of God. The like shalbe fownd amongst the number of his
 One most holy names:
 1479
 The Erth is a fowndation to euery thing: and differeth but onely in forme. In
 the forme of his own application whereunto it is applied. God is the begynning of all things, but not
 after one sorte, nor to euery one alike. But it is three manner of works, with his name:
 The One, in respect of Dignification:
 The second, in respect of Conciliation:
 The third, in respect of an ende and determined Operation.
 Now syr, to what ende, wold you were your Character?
 Δ: At our two first dealings to gither, it was answered by a spirituall Creature, (whome we toke to
 be Uriel,) Sigillum hoc in auro sculpendum, ad defensionem Corporis omni loco, tempore et
 occasione, et in pectus gestandum.1481
Il: But how do I teache? The Character is an Instrument, appliable onely to Dignification
 . But
 there is no Dignification (Syr) but that which doth procede, and hath his perfect Composition,
 Centrally
 , in the square number of 3 and 4.
 The centre whereof shall be equall to the greatest.
 Δ: We understand not. Il:—Hereby you may gather not onely to what ende, the blessed
 Character (wherewith thow shalt be dignified)
 characters.1482
 To the second. —Δ: Conciliation you meane.
 Il:—The Table is an Instrument of Conciliation
 is prepared, but allso the nature of all other
 . And so are the other 7 Characters: which you
 call by the name of Tables, squared out into the forme of Armes:
 which are propre to euery king
 and Prince
 1483
 according to theyr order.1484
 Now to the last: Δ: As concerning the ende and determined Operation.
 Il: It onely consisteth in the mercy of God, and the Characters of these bokes.
 As there is nothing that commeth or springeth from God, 
and inexplicable Operation in it: So euery let
 but it is as God
 1485
 ,
 For, Behold,
 and hath secret Maiesticall
 ter here bringeth furth the Names of God:1486
 dede), they are but one Name;
 But, (in
 But according to the locall and former being, do comprehend the
 universall generation corruptible and incorruptible
 1487
 comprehend the ende
 of all things.
 Thus much, hitherto.
 The Character is fals and diuilish.1488
 He that dwelleth in thee,
 of euery thing. It followeth, then, it must nedes
 hath told thee, so, long ago. The former Diuel
 , did not onely insinuat him
 self, but these things.
 Δ: I do mervayle, that we had no warning hereof ere now, and that I was often tymes called on, to
 prepare those things, (character and Table): and yet they were fals.
 Il:—Yf it shold haue byn gon abowt to be made, it shuld not haue byn suffred to pass under the
 forme of wyckednes.1489
 and yours1490
 The Truth is to be gathered uppon the first Demonstration
 (my demonstration
 are not all one: you will not be offended with me, syr.)
 I gaue thee a certayn principle, which in it self is a sufficient demonstration: I told thee, the placing
 of the Centre, the forme of it, with a lineamentall placing and ordring of that which thow lookest1491
 for. Δ: But truely I understand not.
 Il:—I teache. Take cleane paper. It must be made 4 inches square.
 Pray. Δ: We prayed.
 .1492
 Il: These letters, which I shall speak now, thow shalt, afterward, put them in theyr propre
 characters
 Write: Neuer since the begynning of the world was this secret deliuered, nor this holy mysterie set
 open, before the Weaklings of this world. Write in the uppermost prik ‘O’, and ‘b’ on the right hand,
 and ‘g’ on the left &c. The two extreme pricks, one on the right hand, ‘a’ and the other, on the left ‘o’
&c.
 There is the whole.
 Δ: We prayed (unbidden) in respect of the mysterie revealed. EK, was skarse able to abide or
 endure the voyce of the spirituall Creature, when he spake of these things now: the sownd was so
 forcible to his hed that it made it ake vehemently.
 Il:—Set down the kings, and theyr Princis
 in a Table (as thow knowest them): with theyr
 letters bakward: excepting theyr Bees, from the right hand, to the left.1493
 and Bornogo is his prince.
 1494
 Let Bobogel be first,
 Δ: Note here the three diuerse manners how the letters ar cumpassed. 1: The middel is called the
 Hart or centre, 2: those abowt, enclosing the hart, ar called the flesh, and 3: the two owtside pillers
 (of two letters in a row) is cownted the skyn.
Il:—Here, is the skynn turned into the Centre: and the Centre turned into 4 partes of the body.
 Δ: I see now allso, how, the flesh, is become the owtside: o g e l o r n o &c. Il: I haue done tyll
 sone.
 Δ: Deo nostro omnipotenti perennis laus sit et immensa gloria.1495
 Amen.
 NOTE.
 Δ: After that these things were finished, and EK rose up from the table and went to the west window,
boke (in english meter
 to reade a letter which was, euen than, browght him from his wife: which being done, he toke a little
 prayer1496
 made by one William Hunnis which Mr Adrian Gilbert had here:
 and it lay on the Table by us all the while of this last action) and with this boke, he went into his bed
 chamber, intending to pray on it, a certayn prayer, which he liked: and as he opened the boke, his ey
 espied strange writing in the spare white paper at the bokes ende: and beholding it, iudged it verily to
 be his own letters, and the thing of his own doing: but being assured that he never saw the like of this
 Character [for Conciliation], and that other, (notified by the hart or Center, skyn and flesh before this
 present howre, he becam astonied,1497
 and in great wrath; and behold, suddenly, One appered to him
 and sayd, Lo, this is as good as that other:
 meaning that, which we had receyued, and is here before
 sett down on the former page. With this newes cam EK to me, as I was writing down fayre this last
 Action, and sayd, I haue strange matter to impart unto you: Then sayd I, What is that? And at the fyrst
 (being yet tossed in his mynde, with this great iniurie of the suttle supplanter of man, ambitiously
 intruding him self, to rob god of his glory) he sayd, you shall know, and at length shewed me this little
 paper, here, by, being the one of the white leafes in the ende of the forsayd little prayer boke. And I
 vewing it, fownd it to be ment to be the counterfeat of ours, but, with all, imperfect diuerse wayes,
 after the order of our method: yea thowgh the words, out of which it had sprong had bin good, and
 sufficient: and thereat laughed-at, and derided the Wicked enemy, for his envy, his ass-hedded folish
 ambition, and in dede mere blyndenes to do any thing well. To conclude, we fownd, that with an
 incredible spede this Diuilish figure was written down by some Wicked spirit, to bring our perfect
 doings in dowt with us: thereby eyther to provoke us to utter undue speaches of gods good creatures,
 or to wavering myndes of the Worthynes and goodnes of the same things receyuing, and so eyther to
 leaue of, or with fayntharted wavering to procede. But I by gods grace (contrary to such
 inconveniency) was armed with constancie, and confident good hope, that God wold not suffer me,
 (putting my trust in his goodnes and mercy, to receyue wisdome from him) to be so uniustly dealt
 withall or unkindely or unfatherly used at his hands &c: and entended after supper to make my ernest
 complaint to the diuine Maiestie against this wicked intrusion and temptation of the Illuding diuell and
 so we went to supper.

1583. Aprilis 29. Monday. after supper
 . hora 8 a.
 Δ: I went into my oratorie, and made a fervent prayer agaynst
 the spirituall enemy: specially meaning
 the wicked one who had so suddenly so suttily and so liuely cownterfeted the hand and letters of EK:
 as is here before declared, and by the thing it self may appere here. Likewise EK on his knees (at the
 greene chayre standing before my chymney)
 did pray. After which prayers ended, I yea, rather, before
 they were ended, on my behalf, EK espyed a spirituall creature come to my Table: whome he toke to
 be IL, and so, a lowd, sayd, He is here
 . And thereuppon I cam to my desk, to write as occasion shold
 serue: And before I began to do any thing, I rehersed part of my intent, uttred to god by prayer and half
 turned my speche to god him self, as the cause did seme to require. Thereuppon that spirituall
 creature, who, as yet had sayd nothing, suddenly used these words: I give place
 to my better.
 EK: There semeth to me Uriel to be come, and IL to be gone away. Δ: Then began that new-come
 Creature to say thus,
 Most abundant and plentifull are the great mercies of God unto them which truely and unfaynedly
 feare, honor and beleue him. The Lord hath hard thy prayers, and I am URIEL,1498
 the peace of God, which shall from henceforth viset
 and I haue browght
 you.
 If I had not made this action perfect (sayeth the lord) and wrowght some perfection in you, to the
 ende you might performe: yea, if I had not had mercies (sayeth the lord) over the infinite number and
 multitude of sowles, which are yet to put on the vilenes and corruption of the flesh,
 1499
 Or if it wer not
 time to loke down, and behold the sorrow of my Temple, Yet wold I, for my promiss sake,
 and the
 establishing of my kingdom, verifie my mercies uppon the sonns of men: Whereunto I haue Chosen
 three
 of you,1500
 as the mowthes and Instruments of my determined purpose. Therfore (sayeth the
 Lorde), Be of stowte and courragious mynde in me,1501
 for me, and for my truth sake: And Fear not
 the assalts of temptation, For I haue sayd, I am with you.
 But as mercy is necessary for those that
 repent, and faithfully forget theyr offenses, So is Temptation requisite1502
 and must ordinarilie follow
 those, whome it pleaseth him to illuminate with the beames of triumphant sanctification.
 Yf Temptation wer not, how shold the sonnes of men (sayeth the lord) know me to be mercifull?
 But I am honored in hell; and wurshipped with the blasphemers: Pugna erit, vobis autem
 victoria:
 1503
 come
 yet, albeit, (thus sayeth my message) I will defend you from the cruelltie of these dayes to
 and will make you perfect: that perfectly you may
 begynne in the works of my perfection.
 1504
 But, what? and doost thow (Sathan) think to triumph? Behold (sayeth the God of Justice) I will banish
 thy servants from this place and region; and will set stumbling bloks before the feete of thy
 ministers:1505
 Therfore, be it unto thee, as thow hast deserued: And be it to this people, and holie
 place, (as it is, the will of god; which I do pronownce) light without darkness, Truth without falshode,
 righteousnes without the works
 of wickednes. I haue pronownced it, and it is done.
 But thow, o yongling,1506
 (but, old synner,) why dost thow suffer thy blyndeness thus to encrease: or
 why dost thow not yeld thy lymmes to the service and fullfilling of an aeternall veritie? Pluck up thy
 hart: let it not be hardened. Follow the waye that leadeth to the knowledge of the ende; the open sight
 of god his word verified for his kingdoms sake.
 You began in Tables, and that of small accownt.
 But be faithfull for you shalbe written within
 Tables of perfect and euerlasting remembrance. Considering the truth, which is the message of him
which is the fowntayne and life of the true, perfect and most glorious life to come, Follow, loue, and
 diligently Contemplate the mysteries therein
 . He that hath done this euill, hath not onely synned
 against thee, but against God, and against his truth. Judgment is not of me, and therefore I cannot
 pronownce it: But what his Judgment is, he knoweth in him self. His name is BELMAGEL: and he is
 the fyrebrand, who hath followed thy sowle from the begynning;
 1507
 yea seking his destruction. Who
 can better cownterfeat, than he, that in thy wickednes is chief lord and Master of thy spirites: or who
 hath byn acquaynted with the secrets of mans fingers, so much as he [that] hath byn a directer? My
 sayings are no accusation: neyther is it my propertie to be defyled with such profession.
 1508
 But I
 cownsayle you generally; and aduertise you throwgh the grace and by the spirit of unspeakable mercy.
 This night, yf your prayers had not byn; yea, if they had not perced into the seat of him which sitteth
 aboue:
 Thow, yea (I say) thow hadst byn carryed, and taken awaye, this night, into a willdernesse, so
 far distant hence Northward, that thy destruction had followed.
 1509
 Therfore lay away thy works of
 youth; and fly from fleshly vanities. Yf not uppon Joye and pleasure of this presence, yet for the glorie
 of him that hath chosen you.
 I say, be strong: Be Humble, with Obedience: For, All the things, that haue byn spoken of, shall
 come to pass: And there shall not a letter of the boke of this prophesie perish.
 1510
 blessed you, and will kepe 
you from temptation
 1511
 Finally, God hath
 and will be mercifull unto you: and perfect you,
 for the dignitie of your profession1512
 sake: Which
 , world without ende for euer and euer, with us and
 all creatures, and in the light of his own cowntenance, be honored.
 Amen. Amen. Amen.
 Δ: Hereuppon I made most humble prayer with harty thanks to our God, for his help, cumfort, and
 Judgment against our enemie, in this case, (so greatly concerning his glorie.) And at my standing up I
 understode that Uriel was out of sight to EK. Yet I held-on my purpose to thank him; and to prayse god
 for Uriel that his so faithfull ministerie unto his diuine Maiestie, executed to our nedefull comfort in
 so vehement a temptation.
 Deo nostro Omnipotenti; sit omnis laus, honor, 
et gratiarum actio, nunc et in perpetuum,1513
 Amen.
1583 Maij 5. Sonday. a meridie hor 4. vel circiter.
 
Δ: For as much as, on fryday last, while my frende EK was abowt writing of the Tables he was told
 that the same shuld be finished on monday next and that on sonday before, (it is to wete, this present
 sonday) at after none, all dowtes shold be answered; after, the after none had so far passed, as tyll
 somewhat past 4 of the clok: Then, we fell to prayer, and after a quarter of an howres invocation to
 god, and prayers made, EK sayd, here is one whome we toke to be Uriel, as he was, in dede. I had
 layd 28 questions or articles of dowtes in writing uppon my desk, open, ready for me to rede (uppon
 occasion) to our spirituall instructor, who, thus began his speche, after I had used a few wordes
 begynning with this sentence, Beati pedes, evangelizantium pacem &c.1514
 Uriel:—The very light and true wisdome (which is the Somme of my message, and will of him that
 sent me) make you perfect, and establish those things, which he hath sayd, and hath decreed: and
 likewise your myndes, that you may be apt vessells to receyve so abundant mercies. Amen. Δ: Amen,
 per te Jesu Christe:1515 Amen.
 Ur:—This boke,1516 and holy key, which unlocketh the secrets of god his determination, as
 concerning the begynning, present being, and ende of this world, is so reuerent and holy: that I wonder
 (I speak in your sense) whie it is deliuered to those, that shall decay: So excellent and great are the
 Mysteries therein conteyned, aboue the capacitie of man: This boke (I say) shall, to morrow, be
 finished:1517 One thing excepted: which is the use thereof. Unto the which the lord hath appointed a
 day. But (bycause I will speak to you, after the manner of men) See that all things be in a redynes
 agaynst the first day of August next.1518 Humble your selues nine dayes before: yea, unrip (I say) the
 cankers of your infected sowles: that you may be apt and meet to understand the Secrets, that shalbe
 deliuered.1519 For why? The Lord hath sent his angels allready to viset the earth,1520 and to gather the
 synnes thereof to gither, that they may be wayed before him in the balance of Justice: and Then is the
 tyme that the promise of God, shalbe fullfilled. Dowt not, for we are good Angells.1521
 The second of the greatest prophesie is this1522 (O ye mortall men) For the first was of him self,
 that He shold come: And this, is from him: in respect of that he will come.Neyther are you to speak the
 wordes of this Testimonie, in one place, or in one people, but, that the Nations of the whole world
 may knowe that there is a GOD which forgetteth not the truth of his promise, nor the sauegarde of his
 chosen, for the greatnes of his glory.1523
 Therfore (I say) prepare your bodies, that they may be strong enowgh for armors of great profe.1524
 Of your selfs, you cannot: But desire and it shall be giuen unto you. For Now, is euen that wicked
 childe grown up unto perfection: and the fier tungs redy to open his Jaws.1525 WO therfore shalbe to
 the Nations of the earth: And wo wo innumerable to those that say, we yelde: Wickednes (o lorde) is
 crept up, and hath filled the dores of thy holy sanctuarie: defyled the dwelling places of thy holy
 Angels: and poysonned the earth, as her own seat:
 In 40 dayes more must this boke be perfyted in his own manner to the intent that you allso may be
 perfyted in the workmanship of him, which hath sealed it.1526
 Oute of this, shall be restored the holy bokes, which haue perished euen from the begynning, and
 from the first that liued And herein shalbe deciphred perfect truth from imperfect falshode, True
 religion from fals and damnable errors, With all Artes; which are propre to the use of man, the first
1527
 and sanctified perfection: Which when it hath spred a While, THEN COMMETH THE ENDE.
 Thy Character must haue the names of the fiue Angels (written in the myddst of Sigillum
 Emeth) graven uppon the other side in a circle. 1528
 which was allso browght:
 1529
 In the myddst whereof, must the stone
 Wherein, thow shallt, at all times
 be
 behold, (priuately to thy self,) the
 state of gods people throwgh the Whole earth.
 The fowre fete of the Table must haue 4 hollow things of swete wood,1530
 may1531
 whereuppon, they
 stand: within the hollownes wherof thy seales may be kept unperished
 .
 One
 month is all, for the use thereof.
 1532
 Thus, sayeth the Lord, when I browght you up in likenes of birds, encreasing you, and suffring you
 to touche1533
 the skyes, I opened unto you the ende of your reioysing: For, this Doctrine shall towche
 the skyes, and call the sterrs to testimonie therof: And your fotesteps shall viset (allmost) [all1534
 partes of the whole world.
 The sylk, must be of diuerse cullors, the most changeable that can be gotten:1535
 hable to behold the glory of the
 seat of God?
 ] the
 For, who, is
 All these things must be used, as that day.1536
 All errors and dowtes ells may be amended by the rules of reason: But Notwithstanding, Ask, and
 thow shalt be answered.
 Δ: As concerning Mals don Mals, what is the veritie to be placed in the middle of my practising
 Table?
 Ur:—Write
 1537
 Δ: From whense, are these taken?
 Ur: They owght to be gathered of those names, which are first gathered by thee, by ordre: (In the
myddst of them:)
 the Kings and Princis being placed, as thow (of 
thy invention
 Not putting 
thus,
 theyr own princis,
 next to the kings: but as they follow 
in Tabula,
 Collecta1538
 ) diddst gather tbhem:
 by thee: as
 Δ: Wherfore is the Table of Kings, and Princis set down in so diuerse manners? 1539
 haue Bobogel and Bornogo
 in the first row: and other to haue Baligon and Bagenol
 as, One, to
 (his prince) in the
 first row: and here thirdly Baligon and Bornogo: and in the Heptagonon Blumaza semeth to be first,
 discoursed of, and his prince and Ministers: but very secretly:
 Ur: Blumaza, is the first, in respect (And so all the rest, are the first in respect 
of theyr own being
 .
 That secret is not to be deliuered but by the distinction of the boke: Notwithstanding, thow hast truely
 considered of it
 all ready.1540
 Δ: I required the perfect forme of the 21 letters, that I might imitate the same in the Table of
 practise, and in the holy boke writing &c.
 Ur: They shall be deliuered to morrow.
 Δ: Whether is the King his Name Bnaspen, or Bnapsen?
 Ur: Bnapsen.
 Δ: The Character or Lamine for me was noted (Nouemb. 17. Ao15821541
 ) that it shold
 conteyne some token of my name: and now, in this, (accownted the true Character of
 Dignification) I perceyue no peculier mark, or letters of my name.
 Ur: The forme in euery corner, considereth thy name.
 1542
 Δ: You meane there to be a certayn shaddow of Δelta? Ur: Well.
 Δ: Bycause many things do seeme to be taken from under the Table, as out of a stoare howse, shall
 there be any shelf framed under our square Table of Practise or handsome stole set in apt place to lay
 things on?
 Ur: These things that were deliuered by shew, under an Imagined Table, were the members of God
 his secret Prouidence, distributed unto his Angels as the Principals
 1543
 Table is nothing to be set.
 of theyr Officis.
 But under thy
 Δ: What more uses are there of the great Circle or globe, wherein there are Capitall letters under
 the Kings names and Characters: and allso there are other letters with numbers: of which we haue
 receyued no instruction: and more ouer of these letters, some are aversed som euersed, &c?
 Ur:—The letters turned bak to bak, (being Capitall letters,) ar æqually to be diuided, according to
theyr numbers, with a circle cumpassing the name and Character of the king under which they are
 placed.1544
 The other letters, whose greatest number doth not excede 7
 , are certayn By-notes of wicked and
 euill powres;
 which cannot, any way, but by the towche stone of truth be deciphred from the good.
 Wherof Notice shall be given at large, by the boke.
 He that standeth in the myddst of the globe,1545
 point, is the use and practise
 signifieth Nature whereuppon, in the first
 of this work that is to say, as concerning the first part.
 sayde before The Boke conteyneth three kinde of Knowledges.
 And this hath answered a great dowte.
 Δ: What is the use of the 7 lamines,1546
 For it is
 (like armes,) and from what grownde are they framed
 or deriued?
 Uriel:—They are the ensignes of the Creation;
 1547
 wherewithall they were created by God
 known onely by theyr acquayntance. and the manner of theyr doings.
 Δ: Are they to be made in any metall?
 Ur:—They are to be made in purified tynne: And to be used at the time of theyr Call.
 Δ: Ar the letters there to be altered into the holy Alphabet letters
 Ur: Into theyr propre Characters.
 or characters?
 Δ: May I not use them as they ar, unaltered?
 1548
 Ur:—................
 Δ: How to be used; hanged or layd?
 Ur: To be layd before thee uppon the Table. Or thow mayst place them, (yf thow wilt,) contynually
 at the 7 angles
 of the Holy Seale: laying them besides, and against the points or Angles of the Holy
 Seale: 7 ynches from the utter border of the 
holy Seale,
 all 
the Table.
 1549
 at ones:
 Or els they may be paynted, On
 Δ: What is the fowndation of the first 40 letters, in the principall, or holy Seale Emeth: and what
 other uses haue they, then yet hath byn spoken of: And what is the reason of suche theyr consequencie,
 or following eache other, Seing in our practise we cull them out by a peculier order?
 Ur:—Thow hast nothing there, but what hath byn sufficiently spoken of.
 1550
 Δ: Yf 42 letters be 42 names, and 42 persons, how shall distinction be made betwene any two or
 three, of one name and in one row?
Ur:—How canst thow distinguish any thing with god?
 Δ: Lord I know not.
 Ur: Yet, by the boke
 it shall be perfectly known: but by skyll aboue nature.
 Δ: Haue I rightly applyed the dayes to the Kings?
 Ur:—The dayes are rightly applyed to the Kings.
 Δ: How is this phrase The fifth of the seuenth understode, which Befafes1551
 Ur:—He speaketh so of him self, in respect that 
consideration of Nature
 he is the fifth,
 he shall
 be 
the fifth
 speaketh of him self?
 that shall be used.
 In
 allthowgh not consequently in the Order of Operation.
 Δ: It was promised that we shold be instructed, whan the Day (in this practise) is to be accownted
 to begynne.
 Ur:—It is not to be enquired, which is sufficiently towght, it is a thing most easy, and perfectly
 deliuered.
 Δ: Adrian Gilbert1552
 sayd,1553
 how far, or what points is he to be made priuie of our practise? Seing it was
 that none shall enter into the Knowledge of these mysteries with me, but onely this worker.
 Truely the man is very Cumfortable to our societie.
 Ur:—He may be made priuie of some things: such as shall be necessarie for the necessitie of the
 Necessities whereunto he shall be driuen.
 Δ: The phrase of the last Ternarie,1554
 which, Baligon (otherwise named Carmara, or Marmara)
 used, I understand not.
 Ur:—He is the ende of the Three last corruptible times:
 1555
 Δ: The one, at Noes Flud
 wherof, this is the last.
 ended, the second at Christ his first
 Ur:—It is so.
 comming and this is the third.
 Δ: The Characters and words annexed to the Kings names in the utter circumference of the
 great circle or Globe: How are they to be used?1556
 Ur: They1557
 are to be paynted uppon swete wood:
 shallt haue cause to use
 them.
 and so to be held in thy hand
 , as thow
 Δ: For the bringing of the erthes hither from the places of hidden Threasor, what is your order and
 direction?
 Ur:—After you haue eaten, it shall be told you.
 Δ: We prayed, and so went to supper.
1583
The same sonday. Maij .5. [after supper hora 8½]
 Δ: After diuerse our eiaculations and pangs of prayer and thanks unto god, this was sayed.
 Ur:—Be it thus unto you. [He prayeth in his own language.] After this holy boke is finished, then is
 it necessarie with expedition
 1558
 that the foresayd commaundement, as concerning the fatching of the
 earth, be fullfilled and performed. And be it unto you as HE will. And HE sayeth thus.
 My Angel shall be amongst you, and shall direct his iornay:1559
 the place and places where that erthly filth and Corruption lieth.
 and will bring his feete, euen into
 Behold I will deale mercifully with
 him: For, Error shall not deceyue him. Notwithstanding what I will haue done with it, or how it shall
 be bestowed, is yet to be enquired of
 .1560
 Secret are the determinations, and unsearchable purposes, wherewithall the most mightiest dealeth
 with worldlings, and loketh unto the use and necessarie application of worldly things. Many
 temptations shall assayle him in following this commaundement.
 But it is sayd, I Will be with him.
 God will deale mercifully with you. This is sufficient.
 Yet ones more. Yf thow haue any dowte herein it shall be satisfyed.
 Δ: What if he go first to Nubery, and with the erth being taken thence, to procede to the other places
 noted in the skroll and then with the erth of those ten places, the rest of the skroll, the boke therewith
 fownd, and the red congeled thing in the hollow stone
 1561
 to come directly
 hither: and then the rest of
 the peculier practise for enioying the premisses, to be lerned. Or how els will you haue him order his
 iornay?
 Ur: As thow wilt herein,
 so shall it be browght to pas.
 Δ: As concerning the Victorious Capitayn, The Lord Albert Laski the Polake who so much desyreth
 my acquayntance, and Conference, how shall I use my self, to God his best liking, my Cuntries honor,
 and my own good Credit?1562
 Ur:—Remember, it is sayde, that the Princis of the earth shall not discredit, much lesse work thy
 Confusion. He that dwelleth in thee,
 1563
 worldly, in worldly occasions.
 is above worldes: and shall giue thee sufficient discretion
 For, Where the blessings of God are, euery thing is perfyted.
 Δ: As concerning the Chamber for Practise, appointed by me, and the half-pace whereon the Table
 standeth, how is allowed of?
 Ur:—The place can not Sanctifie the Action, but the Action the place. But I answer thee, after the
 manner of men.
 1564
 It is sufficient.
 Δ: The 4 hollow feete for comprehending the 4 lesser seales, how great owght they to be?
 Ur: According to the fete
 , of the nearest proportion. And so, as the heith of the Table, be, as it,
 now, is.
 EK: He semeth now to sit in the ayre: but I perceyue no chayre behynde him.
 A: Are all these things of this dayes Action to be Noted with your name: as Uriel?
 I am URIEL, which allwayes will answer untill
 1565
 this Action be finished.
 I teache. Be Mercifull, Thankfull, and mery in him, and for him for whose name you shall susteyne
 muche bodyly sadnes.
 More then my message, I may not: And it is done.
A: As concerning the Vision which yester night was presented (unloked for,) to the sight of EK
 as he sat at supper with me,
 in my hall, I meane the appering of the very sea,
 thereon, and the Cutting-of the hed of a woman,
 and many ships
 by a tall blak man, What are we to imagin
 therof?
 Ur:—The One, did signifie the prouision of forrayn powres
 against the Welfare of this land: which
 they shall shortly put in practise: The other, the death of the Quene of Scotts
 . It is not long unto it.
 1566
 The Maiestie of his invisible powre, which overcommeth all things be among you, uppon you, and
 rest with you for euer.
 Δ: Amen.
 EK: At his last words he flung fyre with his hands from him toward us, and it spred it self in the
 manner of a Crosse.
 Δ: Gloria sit sempiterna Deo nostro 
Omnipotenti et Æeterno.1567
 Amen.
May 6.
 Monday, I went to London: and EK remayned attending the accomplishing of the promise, for the
 Tables ending and for the perfect forme of the holy letters receyuing: Which two points (when I cam
 home that after none), I fownd done. But it is to be Noted, that, When EK could not aptly imitate the
 forme of the Characters, or letters, as they were shewed: that then they appered drawn on his paper
 with a light yelow cullor, which he drew the blak uppon, and so the yelow cullor disapearing: there
 remayned onely the shape of the letter in blak: after this manner and iust of this quantitie and
 proportion.
Maij 8. Wensday, After dynner horam circiter 4 a
 1568
 Δ: Being desyrous to furder all things on my part to be performed, and n . . . to lack the Cumpany of
 EK going for the Erthes;
 (before spoken of)
 and to be away 10 or 12 dayes: and for as much as the
 boke was to be written in 40 dayes before August next: and uncertayn of those dayes whan they shold
 begynne: and allso for that I wold do all things (gladly) by warranty of cownsayle of our Instructor, I
 was desyrous to know whether the boke1569
 were to be written in paper or parchment: in what cullor
 the lynes were to be ruled, grene or blew &c: and of diuerse other dowtes, necessary to be dissolued,
 I was carefull to haue had some advertisement. After long prayers of us both, Nothing was eyther seen
 in the ayre, or hard. Then it cam in my hed to set furth the stone.
 EK sayd, that assone as he loked
 into the stone, he saw there the Table, Chayre, and three, com into
 the stone. Uriel sat down in the chayre: the other two, inclined theyr body to him reverently: and then,
 stode by; one on the one side of the chayre; the other on the other side.
 The sides of the Table-cloth were turned up, and a thing like an yong shepe, bigger then a lamb,
 appered under the Table:1570
 Then they two did knele before Uriel and sayd,
 Verus et sanctus et sempiternus.1571
 Δ: Then they rose agayn: and they semed to haue talk, or conference togither and theruppon Uriel
 sayd,
 Ur: Be it so, bycause powre
 is giuen unto him.
 EK: The Table, Chayre and all the three do disapere: and thereuppon immediately appered in the
 stone a fayr Pallace:1572
 and out of the pallace cam a tall wellfauored man, very richely apparayled
 with a braue hat and a fether on his hed: and after him followed a great number, all like curteours: and
 this brave man sayd,
 Man: How pitifull a thing is it, when the wise, are deluded?
 Δ:—I smell the smoke
 ; procede Syr, in your purpose.
 Man: I come hither, for the desyre I haue to do thee good.
 Δ:—Come you, or are you sent. Tell the Veritie I charge thee, in the name and by the powre of the
 æternall Veritie.
 Δ: Note: After I perceyued euidently that it was a wicked tempter
 , who had powr
 permitted him at
 this instant, I began with some Zeale and egreness to rebuke, and to charge him. But he stiffly and
 stowtely did contemne me a good while, mock me, and at length thretten to destroy me, my wife, and
 children, &c.
 Δ: I thereuppon made my ernest prayers to god agaynst this Spirituall enemy, but he in the myddle
 of my prayers, sayed thus,
 Man:—As truely as the Lord liueth, all that is done, is lies
 .
 Δ: That, thy sentence, will I record agaynst thee; to be layde to thy charge at the dredfull day.
 Δ: After this great turmoyle past, was this voyce (following), hard of EK.
 A voyce:—Pereant tenebræ, cum Principe Tenebrarum.1573
 Δ: All went suddenly out of sight, Prince and pallace and all. And the Chayre and Table and Uriel
in all
 1574
 appeared againe.
 Ur:—Arme your selues, for, great shall be the temptations following. You shall be hindred, 
that may be.
 ,
 Nothing can hinder god his determined purposes.
 Δ: Man may hinder his owne saluation.
 Ur:—Fullfill those things that are commaunded. Forme, and write the boke after thyne own
 Judgment. God his determination is iust; Therfore putto your hands.1575
 More then hath byn sayd, and
 more plainely, cannot be uttred. His works are true, for, and to the ende.
 Δ: Forasmuch as expedition is to be made for the erthes fatching and diuers other things: and we
 haue made assay to get an horse: But we could get none as we wold: And without somme better
 prouision of
 mony
 then we haue, we cannot redress the case. Therfore, if it might pleas god, that of
 the ten places Noted,
 we might
 haue but the possession of the smallest of them, deliuered here, unto
 us, at this pynche, it might greatly pleasure us.
 Ur:—Will these worldlings hold on in theyr iniquitie
 ?
 EK: They pulle the leggs of the Table away, and seme to carry all away in a bundell like a clowde:
 and so disapered utterly.
 Δ: Hereuppon I was exceding sorrowfull: and betoke my self to a lamentable pang of prayer.
 Δ: After long prayer, appeared in the stone a thing like a Tunge, all on fyre thus hanging downward:
 and from it cam this voyce:
 Tung:—Thow hast deliuered thy self unto the desires of thy hart, and hast done that which is not
 Convenient. Thow hast spoken iniquitie, and therfore dothe the Veritie of Gods Doings by us, decay,
 in your Wickedness.
 Δ: I dowt of the Veritie of that tung.
 Tung:—Man (o God) beleueth him self in his own Imagination. Therfore Wipe our holines from the
 face of the erth And Justifie owr doings, where we lawde and prayse thee.
 Δ: I becam now abashed of my former speche, and perceyued my error: axed forgivenes bitterly at
 the Lord his hand: and at length it was sayde,
 Tung:—Do that, which is commaunded, the Lord is Just.
 Δ: O lord, forgiue me my trespaces, and deale not with me according to Justice: for, then I, and all
 mankinde shall utterly perish; Unleast thy mercy be our savegard, destruction is our desert.
 Tung:—It is forgiuen
 : but it shall be 
punished
 .
 EK: The Tung mownted up toward heven, and he saw it in the ayre out and above the stone aboue a
 hand bredth, mownting upward.
 Δ: Thy Name be praysed in Æternitie, Ô God.
 Amen.
Δ: Hereuppon, I was in an exceding great hevines, and sorrow of mynde: And sundry tymes,
 bewayled my case to God: and promised a greater care henceforeward, of Governing my Tung: and
 consenting to any unlawfull or unconvenient desire of my hert: yea, to forbeare to accumpany with my
 own wife, carnally: otherwise then by hevenly leave and permission, or if uppon my protestation
 making in the hardnes of the conflict that unleast the lord order and redress my cause, I shall be
 overcome: That, if I shall, so deliberately call for help; and notwithstanding be entrapped
 , That then,
 such trespace, shall not be imputed unto me, as gladly, gredyly or willingly committed of me &c.
May 9 Holly Thursday in the morning.
 forgiuenes
 Δ: Being desyrous (before EK his going down into the Cuntrie,) to haue some Cumfort and token of
 free
 at Gods hands I browght furth the stone. Then I went into my Oratorie first requesting
 the Almightie God to respect the harty sorrowfull paines I had endured for my offenses; to regarde the
 Vows and intent of my better hede taking henceforth &c, and prayed the 22 Psalm in the conclusion of
 the pang.
 EK:—One, all in white, appeareth in the stone, who sayde,1576
 ——It is written: It is written: yea, it is written:
 Euen as the father his compassion is great over his yonglings and Children: So, is the abundance of
 thy mercy (o Lord) great and unspeakable to the
 long offences
 and sinnes of 
thy
 servant
 . For, it is
 written, the light of thy eyes haue beheld those that feare thee: and those that trust in thy mercy, shall
 not be confownded. Be it, what it was: And be you, what you were: For, the Lord, is euen the same,
 that he was, before:
 But be you Warned.
 1577
 Behold, my armes ar longer then my body, and I haue eyes rownd abowt me: I am that
 pronownceth
 uppon you: Be it as I haue sayde.
 Δ: Thereuppon he disapeared; and immediately, appered Uriel, who sayd,
 Uri:—Actum est.1578
 1579
 which GOD
 Δ: Then the other two, and the Table and Chayre, and the ancient furniture
 appeared, agayn restored,
 and more
 bewtifull, then in foretyme.
 Uri:—Thus, sayeth the Lord: Euen as the Tabernacle which I restore
 , is ten times brighter then it
 was, So may your Worthynes deserue brightnes ten tymes clerer then this. The rising of synners doth
 greatly reioyce us [and] That, he hath sayde, Do good unto those that feare me: and defend them,
 bycause they know my name. For in Justice they shall finde me theyr God: & in mercy their great
 Comforter.1580
 fiat.1581
 Therfore we say, In thy name (o thow most highest) fiat.
 Justifie not your self:
 Be Humble and diligent:
Continue to the ende. For great is the reward of them that fear the Lorde stedfastly.
 Δ: Whereas the ordring of the boke1582
 is referred to my Judgment: in my mynde it semeth requisite
 that as all the writing and reding of that holy language is from the right hand to the left, So the
 begynning of the boke must be, (as it were, in respect of our most usuall manner of bokes, in all
 languages of latin, greke, english &c) at the ende of the boke: and the ende, at the begynning, as in the
 hebru bible. Secondly the first leaf cannot be written in such little and æquall squares,1583
 as all the
 rest of the 47 leaves are: bycause, the first leafe; excepting 9 lines (of the second page) therof: is all
 of words: some conteyning many letters, and some few, very diuersly: wherfore, I entend to make
 many leaves, serve to distinguish the 49 rowes of the first leafe: and at the ende of euery word to
 draw a line of partition, up and down, betwene the two next parallell lines &c. or as shall come in my
 mynde then.
 Ur:—He, that sayeth, Do this, directeth thy Judgment.
 EK: Now is there a veale drawn before all: and all things appere far bewtifuller then euer they did.
 Δ: I rendred thanks to the highest, and became in mynde Very Joyfull, that the Lord had pardoned
 my offences: whose name be praysed, extolled and magnifyed world with out ende. Amen.
 I prayed after this the short psalme, Jubilate Deo quotquot in terra versamini1584
 &c.
 EK, immediately was to take bote and so to go to London: there to buy a saddell, brydle, and bote
 hose: for he had (here) yesterday, bowght a prety dun Mare, of goodman Pentecost: for iij £s, redy
 mony, in angels.
 God be his guyde, help, and defense. Amen.
Thursday. May 23. Circa 10½ mane
 before
 Δ: EK being come yesterday agayne and hauing . . . the erthes of the eleuen places
 specifyed: 1585
 we being desirous to . . . the furder pleasure of the highest therein, and in other
 matters perteyning to our Actions in hand: I made prayer to such intent, both in my oratory & at
 my desk, rendring thanks for EK his safe retorne, and for the benefit receued of late of the
 Governor and assistants for the
 Mines
 Royall (which I perceyued, was the extraordinary
 working of god for theyr inward perswasion; they being els very unwilling so to let the lease, as
 I obteyned it.) And moving somwhat towching Albert Lasky At length, EK hard a Melody a far
 of, and the voyce of many, singing, these words,
 The stone
 Pinzua
 1586
 Lephe ganiúrax Kelpadman pacaph.
 Δ: At length the curten was taken away, and there appered a clere whitish fume, but not fyre. After
 that, cam the three, which were want to come in.
 Michael:—Grauida est terra, laborat inquitatibus inimicorum lucis. Maledicta igitur est, quia quod
 in utero perditionis et tenebrarum est.
 Uriel:—Sordida est, et odiosa nobis.
 Raphael:—Proprijs sese flagellat tremulis.
 1587
 EK: They loke abowt them, as thowgh they loked for somwhat or at somwhat.
 Rap:—Veh dicit, sed non est qui audiat.
 Gementem vidimus: sed non est, qui misereat. Sanctificemur igitur, Sanctum eius, quia nos
 sanctificamur in illo.
 Mich:—Fiat.1588
 EK: He plucketh all the usuall hangings down abowt the place and now they take the Table away,
 and the Chayre: And where the Chayre was, semeth a Canapy or cloth of stade to hang.
 Michael:—Transeunt vetera, Incipiunt nova.1589
 EK: New seeme like clowdes to come abowt the Canapy being very beawtifull: and the bottom or
 flowr of the place, all couered with pretious stones: and in the middle therof, a rownd thing, like a
 carbuncle stone, bigger then ones fist.
EK: They bring in a Throne like a Judgis seat or Throne and set it up, with the bak of it to the Wall.
 Mich: Be it couered for a season. For euer and euer and euer is thy Justice, O GOD. [all three
 sayd.] EK: And there came light fire flashing from the Throne]
 Thre commeth a beame from the Throne, and throwgh Raphael his head, and semeth to come out at
 his mowth. The other two seeme to knele downe: Michael on his right hand, and Uriel on his left.
 Raphael:—I will speak (o Lord) bycause it is iust1590
 1591
 that thow hast commaunded:
 Your rashnes (o worldlings) is trodden under fote: He sayeth, (I say not) your synns are
 forgiven.
 Δ: O blessed God; ô prayse we his mercyes for euer: ô Cumfortable newes.
 Raph:—For, whome I will viset, those do I clense (sayeth the lord). Whan other things decay by
 reason of theyr age and filthynes (quæ nunc sunt in summo gradu,1592
 and I will not suffer them to
 move one fote farder, sayth the lord,) Then shall your branches begyn to appere: And I will make you
 florish, for my gloryes sake.
 And my testimonies are true, and the wordes of my covenant iust
 : My
 pathes are thorny
 , but my dwelling place, is cumfortable.1593
 My hand is heuy, but my help is great. Be
 ye cumforted in me: for from me, in my self, I am your Cumforter: and lift up your harts as from the
 strength of an other. But be you unto me a new people: bycause I am to you no new god. Dwell with
 me to the ende bycause I haue byn with you from the begynning: For Who soeuer shall arrise agaynst
 you (Behold) I am with you.
 Your fathers liued in darknes; and yet were revived. Yea your fathers were in light, and yet they
 saw not Truth. But I will be known: yea the Nations uppon earth, shall say, Lo this is he, whome we
 haue risen agaynst. I AM: Therfore reioyce.
 [All three sayd,] We perish (o lord) for our unrighteousnes
 sake [and therewith they fell down.] But
 in thee we were created and in thee We rise agayn:1594
 Huseh Huseh Huseh garmal, Peleh Peleh Peleh
 pacáduasam.
 Gyrd your gyrdles togither and pluck up your myndes: I say, open your eyes: and yf you haue eares,
 heare: for we tremble and quake. This
 mercy was neuer:
 1595
 no not
 in Israel.
 Decedant mali, et pereant.1596
 Depart o ye blasphemers, and workers of Iniquitie: For Here is Glory, Justification, with
 Sanctification. I answere thee.
 Δ: Note: he meaneth, now to such matters as I propownded first of my self, and this Polander
 prince &c to give answer. The Prince had left with me these questions:
 1. De Vita stephani Regis Poloniæ quid dici possit?1597
 2. An successor eius erit Albertus Lasky, an ex domo
 Austriaca?
 1598
 3. An Albertus Lasky Palatinus siradiensis habebit regnum Moldauiæ?1599
 Behold you thanked God, and it is accepted. I say, Althowgh we require speede of thee and of
 you:1600
 yet ....
 ....speede of us, you haue a Master, we are his mowth ....
 are Schollars, without us, you could * not heare him: Neyther cowld we heare him of our selves.
Consider the first, respect the second: Measure your selues, as the third.
 For what you were & shalbe is allready appointed. And What He Was, is and shalbe, it is not of
 our determination. His purposes are without ende: yet, to an ende; in you, to an ende. Therfore When
 you shall be called-uppon,1601 DO, that which is commaunded: But appoint no forme unto god his
 buylding. Many wyndes are to come: but theyr fury is in Vayne: It is sayd: The Conquest shall be
 yours.
 To the purpose. Who puft-up this princis father with desire to Viset these cuntries: or who hath
 prevented him? Euen he that hath prouided him a sonne,.1602 as an arme unto his chosen.
 Truely the hills shalbe couered with blud: The Valleys shall take up the Cedar trees unframed: He
 seeth these places, but knoweth not to what ende.
 
He is dead,1603 in respect of his absence: But honor them, whome God hath sanctified. For, Behold
 the Lord hath sayd: Thow shalt gouern me a people: a time there is, which is prefixed: and it is the
 course of the Sonne: Then shall it be sayd unto him, O King.1604
 When you semed to be carryed unto mowntaynes, you towched his . . . Behold (sayeth He)
 Fornication1605 shall not prevayle: the very stones shall be taken away: and the Tables shalbe couered
 with blud: and theyr dayly bankett shall be Wo Wo.
 Whatsoeuer thow takest in hand, First loke Up: see if it be Just.1606 Yf it be, put furth thy hand:
 For, it is graunted.1607
 It is sayed, I haue giuen thee powre, and thy perswasion1608 shall be like fire. And for my names
 sake, thow shalt triumphe against the mightiest. But beware of Pride.
 Many witches and enchanters, yea many diuels haue rosen up against this stranger,1609 and they
 haue sayd, We will preuayle against him: for, why? There is one, that aspireth and he it is, that
 seeketh his confusion. But I will graunt him his desire: He shall do good with many: your names are
 in one boke.1610 Feare not, therfore, Love togither.
 There shall arise, saying, let . . . . 
talked with strangers: But I . . . . 
I will driue them from theyr own . . . . 
the bones which are buryed a far of . . . .1611 
They do spit vengeance agaynst . . . . 
them in theyr own filthynes . . . . 
All men loke upon the . . . bycause it is glorified . . . . 
Happy are they, whose faces are marked,1612 and in w... 
is a percing fyre of workmanship. 
I will move the Prince (sayeth the Lord) Be . . . . 
shall shortly say, Ô give me Cownsayle: for th. . . . .1613 
cownsayled me, conspire agaynst me: 
1614
 Behold, such
 as shewed thee, little frendship, are rather such . . . 
dede (as thow iustly
 hast confessed,) as were forced to doe . . . 
good: I say, they
 , begyn to repine at that, the haue . . .1615
 Let those which are of tyme, yelde to time.1616
 One euerlasting cumfort of grace, and perfect loue,
 be amongst you: to the honor and glory of him that loueth you.
 Beleue, for the teacher his sake. All thow demaundest, is answered.
 Of our selues, (we say,) We desire to be with you: And what is of us, the same be it unto you.
 EK: They pluck the curten, affore the stone, all ouer. The curten is like beaten golde: [The other
 curtens did not cover all so wholy as this did.]
 Δ: Semper sit benedictus Trinus et Unus. 
Æternus et omnipotens Deus noster. 
Amen.
 Liber, sexti Mysteriorum (et sancti) 
parallelus, Noualisque 
sequitur.1617
Appendix 1: Description of Sigillum Dei Aemeth from Liber Juratus
 The following excerpt is from Sloane 3854, folio 114v, with variant readings from the Royal
 manuscript (abbreviated R) and from Sloane 3885 (abbreviated S). The diagram of the Sigillum Dei
 Aemeth is taken from Sloane 313. This is very close to the (although considerably corrupted) version
 shown by Athanasius Kircher in his monumental work Oedipus Aegyptiacus (1562). The drawing of
 the sigil does not occur in Royal, Sloane 3854 or Sl.3885. The version in Sloane 3853 (reproduced in
 C. J. S. Thompson, The Mysteries and Secrets of Magic, New York, 1973, p. 186, but without
 identifying the source) is somewhat different.
De compositione signi dei vivi1618
 
Primo fac unum circulum cuius diameter sit trium digitorum propter tres clauos domini,1619 vel *5*
 propter *5* plagas, vel *7* propter *7* sacramenta, vel *9* propter *9* ordines angelorum, sed
 communiter *5* digitorum fieri solet. Deinde infra illum circulum fac alium circulum a primo
 distantem duobus granis ordei propter duas tabulas moysi, vel distantem a primo tribus granis propter
 trinitatem parsonarm. Deinde infra illos duos circulos in superiori parte quæ dicitur angulus meridiei
 fac unam crucem, cuius tibia aliquantulum intrat1620 circulum interiorem. Deinde a parte dextra crucis
 scribe .h. aspirationem deinde .t. deinde .o. deinde .e. x.1621 o. r. a. b. a.1622 l. a. y. q. c.1623 i. y. s. t. a.
 l. g. a. a. o. n.1624 o. s. v. l. a. r.1625 y. t. c.1626 e. k. s. s.1627 p. f. y. o. m. e. m. a. u.1628 a. r. e. l. a. c.1629
 e. d.1630 a. t. o. n. o. n. a. o. y. l. e.1631 y. o. t. m. a1632 et iste1633 literæ sunt eque1634 distantes, et
 circu~dent circulum. eo ordine quo sunt prenominatæ1635 et sic magnum nomen domini
 semenphoras1636 *72* literarum erit completum. hoc facto in medio circulorum scilicet in centro fac
 unum pentagonum talem,  in cuius medio sit signum tau tale  et super illud signum scribe1637
 nomen dei el, et sub nomine aliud  nomen dei .l.1638 ely. isto modo1639 Deinde infra angulum
 superiorem 1640 pentagoni1641 scribe istas duas litteras .lx.1642 Et infra alium angulum dextrum istas
 duas1643 .a.l. Et in alio [R 9v] post istum istas duas1644 n.m.1645 Deinde circa pentagonum fac unum
 eptagonum1646 cuius latus superius secundum sui medium contingat angulum superiorem pentagoni ubi
 .l.x.1647 scribebatur, et in eodem latere eptagoni1648 scribe hoc nome~ sancti1649 angeli quod est
 .casziel. Et in alio latere a dextris istud nomen alterius sancti angli quod est1650 .satquiel. Deinde in
 alio .samael. et in alio .raphael. postea .anael. postea .michael. postea .gabriel. et sic *7* latera
 eptagoni1651 erunt1652 adimpleta,1653 Deinde circa istum eptagonum1654 predictum fac alium
 eptagonum1655 non quoquo modo factum prius sed1656 taliter quod unum latus ipsius intercedet1657
 latera alterius, Deinde fac alium eptagonum tale~1658 qualis prius1659 fuit cuius anguli *7* contingant
 angulos *7* eptagoni secundi quibus esse videtur. Hic tamen eptagonus infra perdictum secundum
 concludetur, unu~1660 latus secundi eptagoni1661 supernudo et aliud subenudo, sed1662 latus primo
 angulos1663 succedens subenudo ibit. et que1664 secuntur1665 serie supereuntis et subeuntis alterutrum
 se habebunt, Deinde in quolibet angulo secundi eptagoni1666 una crux depingatur, Deinde in illo latere
 secundi eptagoni1667 quod transit ab ultimo angulo eiusde~1668 ad secundum angulum eiusde~ in
 eadem parte quæ est super1669 .casziel. sillabe cuiusdam sancti1670 dei nominis scribatur,1671 Ita quod
 hac sillaba .la. scribatur in illo loco lateris perdicti1672 qui est supra primam sillabam de .casziel. et
 hec1673 sillaba .ya. in illo loco eiusdem1674 lateris qui est supra ultimam sillabam eiusdem1675
 .casziel. et hec1676 silliba .ly. in illo loco eiusdem lateris qui est latus intersecans predictum latus et
 crucem secundi anguli eiusdem, Deinde in1677 latere illo quod tendit ab angulo primo eiusdem
 secundi eptagoni1678 ad tertium angulum eiusdem scribatur hoc nomen sanctum dei1679 .narath. ita
 quod hec1680 sillaba .na. scribatur in illo loco eiusdeum lateris qui est supra primam sillabam de
 .satquiel. et hec1681 sillaba .ra. in illo loco qui est supra ultimam eiusdem, et hec1682 due1683 literae
.t.h.1684 in illo loco qui est in eodem latere1685 inter latus secans ipsum1686 et crucem tertiam,1687
 Deinde in illo latere eiusdem secundi eptagoni1688 quod tendit .a. tertio1689 angulo eiusdem ad
 quartum eiusdem scribatur hoc creatoris nomen sanctum quod dicitur .libarre. ita quod hec1690 sillaba
 .ly. scribatur supra primam sillabam, de .raphael. et hec1691 sillaba .bar. supra ultimam sillabam1692
 *eiusdem, et hæc sillaba .re. in illo loco *1693 eiusdem lateris qui est inter latus intersecans ipsum et
 quintur angulum eiusdem secundi eptagoni,1694 Deinde in illo latere eiusdem secundi eptagoni1695
 quod est .a. quinta cruce1696 vsque ad ultimam scribatur hoc aliud sacrum creatoris nomen .libares. ita
 quod hec1697 sillaba .ly. scribatur in illo loco lateris qui est supra primam sillabam ipsius .michael. et
 hec1698 sillaba .ba. in illo loco lateris qui est supra ultimam sillabam eiusdem, et hec1699 sillaba .res.
 in illo loco eiusdem lateris qui est inter latus intersecans ipsum et ultimam crucem. Deinde in illo
 latere eiusdem secundi iptagoni1700 quod vadit a secundo angulo eiusdem secundi eptagoni1701 ad
 quantum1702 scribatur hoc1703 aliud sacrum1704 nomen1705 .halg.1706 cum coniunctina ita quod
 coniuunctina in illo loco eiusdem lateris scribatur qui1707 est supra primam sillabam de .samael. et
 hæc litera .ly. in illo loco eiusdem lateris qui est supra ultimam eiusde ~, et hæc sillaba .alg. in
 loco eiusdem lateris qui est inter latus intersecans ipsum et quartam crucem, Sed caue quod ra1708
 coniunctina sic debet scribi et1709 cum titulo intersecante propter timorem dei malum nolitu~1710
 diuideutem. Deinde in illo latere eiusdem eptagoni1711 tendente a quarta cruce ad sextam scribatur hoc
 aliud sacrum1712 dei1713 nomen .veham.1714 ita quod hæc sillaba .ve.1715 scribatur in illo loco eiusdem
 lateris qui est supra primam sillabam de .anael. et hæc litera .h. supra ultimam sillibam et hæc
 sillabam .am. in illo loco eiusdem lateris qui est latus secans ipsum et sextam crucem, Deinde in illo
 latere quod tendit a sexto angulo1716 eiusdem secundi eptagoni1717 ad primum angulum scribatur hoc
 aliud sacrum1718 dei nomen .yalgal. ita quod hec1719 litera .y. scribatur in illo loco1720 eiusde~
 lateris1721 qui est supra primam sillabam de .gabriel. et hac sillaba .al. super1722 ultimam et hæc
 sillaba .gal. in illo loco eiusdem lateris qui est inter latus intersecans ipsum et primam crucem,
 Deinde in medio lateris1723 primi et tertii eptagoni1724 a dextris1725 scribatur .vos.1726 et in sequenti
 latere eiusdem tertii eptagoni1727 a dextris1728 hoc Nomen .duymas.1729 et in alio .Gyram. et in alio
 .Gram1730 et in alio .Aysaram. et in alio .Alpha. et ω. in alio.1731 Deinde in alio spaciolo quod est sub
 secundi et tertii angulo primo eptagonorum1732 scribatur hoc nomen dei .el. et in alio spaciolo quod
 est a dextris sub angulis1733 secundi et tertii eptagonorum1734 sub secunda cruce hoc nomen .ON. et in
 illo1735 alio spaciolo sub tertia cruce. iteru~1736 hoc nomen .el. et in alio sub quarta cruce iterum .ON.
 et in alio sub qinta1737 cruce iterum .el. et in alio sub sexu 1738 cruce iterum .ON. et in alio sub
 septima cruce .w. Deinde in illo1739 spacio1740 quod clauditur1741 inter angulum primum1742 secundi
 eptagoni1743 et secundum angulum eiusdem et primum latus tertii eptagoni1744 et portionem circuli
 contingentem illos angulos depingatur una crux, in medio .S.1745 spacii illius. Et in bucca superiori a
 leua crucis scribatur hæc litera .a.1746 et super buccam crucis secundam a dextris hæc litera .g. Et sub
 bucca inferiori a dextris1747 scribatur haec alia1748 litera .a.1749 Et sub quarta bucca hsec1750 litera .l.
 Deinde in alio spaciolo sequenti a dextris in medio scribatur hoc nomen1751 .ely.1752 et in alio hoc
 nomen .eloy.1753 et in alio .christos. et in alio .sother.1754 et in alio .Adonay.1755 et in alio .Saday.
 Deinde scias qd in exemplaribus communiter1756 pentagonus fit de rubeo cum croceo in spaciis tincto.
 Et primus1757 septagonus1758 de azurio, secundus de croceo, tertius de purpureo, et circuli de nigro, et
spacium inter circulos ubi est nomen de maximum. ac venerabile1759
 .schemhamphoras. tingitr croceo,
 omnia alia1760
 spacia viridi habent tingi, Sed in operationibus aliter fieri debet, quia de sanguine aut.
 talpæ. aut .turturis. aut.1761
 virgineo vitulino,1762
 vpupæ. aut .vespertilionis. aut omnium horum figuratur, et in pergameõ
 vel1763
 equino, vel ceruino, et sic completur dei sigillum, Et per1764
 hoc sanctum
 et sacrum sigillum quando erit sacratum poteris. facere operationes quæ postea dicentur1765
 libro.1766
 Figure 8. Sigillum Dei Aemeth from Liber Juratus.
 Modus autem sacrandi hoc sacrum sigillum talis1767
 sicut sequitr1768
 debet esse.
 in hoc
 Inspirante domino dixit Salomon unus est solus deus, sola fides, sola virt~s, quã dominus
 hominibus voluit revelari et distribui tali1769
 modo. Dixit1770
 Angulus .Samael. Salomoni hic1771
 dabis populo Israel qui et aliis similiter tribuent sic placuit creatori1772
 taliter consecrari.
 Primo sit mundus operans non pollutus,1774
 et inbet ipsum Dominus1773
 et cum deuocione faciat non astute, non commedat
 neque bibat, donec perfecerit opus, Et sanguis quo scripts~1775
 dicetur, Deinde suffumigetur,1776
 fuerit primo sit benedictus sicut postea
 hoc sigillum ambra, musco, aloe, lapdano, albo, et rubeo, mastice,
 olibano, margaritis et thure. Invocando et orando dominum sicut postea de visione divina erudietur,
Post1777
 invocando angelos sicut etiam1778
 infra1779
 Dicetur, mutabitur tñ1780
 peticio tali1781
 modo,
S: Oratio
 Ut tu domine per annunciationem concepcionem et citera. Hoc sacratissimum nomen ac sigillum
 tuum benedicere et consecrare digneris1782
 celestes1785
 coniuncere1786
 ut per ipsum te1783
 potestates aereas et terreas1787
 mediante possim vel possit talis1784
 .N.
 cum infernalibus subingare, [S 63v]
 invocare, transmutare1788
 innocuos reddere homines placare, et ab eis tuas1790
 coniurare constringere, excitare, gongregare,1789
 dispergere, ligare ac ipsos
 peticiones graciosius1791
 habere, inimicos
 pacificare, pacificatos disimigere, sanos insanitate custodire vel infirmare. infirmos curare. homines
 bonos a malis custodire. et distinguere, et cognoscere, omne corporale periculum euadere, Judices in
 placito placatos reddere, victoriam in omnibus obtinere, pecrata carnalia mortificare et spiritualia
 fugare vincere, et euitare, divitias in bonis augmentare et du~1792
 tuis cum sanctis et electis tuis tuam possit cognoscere1793
 in die indicii apparebit. a dextris
 maiestatem
 Et tunc illa nocte sub aere sereno1794
 extra domum dimittat, Tunc habeas chirotecas1795
 creace factas inquas quis numquam manum posuerit1796
 nouas sine
 in quibus signum glutetur, et sic complebitur
 hoc sacrum1797
 tertius .7. sacramenta Designat1799
 sigillum, Cuius primus eptagonus1798
 .7. ordines, Secundus .7. Articulos Duplos
Appendix 2: Athanasius Kircher: Oedipus Aegyptiacus: Sigillum Aemeth (Rome,
 1652-4)
Amuleti alterius Cabalistici heptagoni Interpretatio
 Hoc amuletum heptagonum circulo inclusum Veneri dicatum est, vti in Arithmetica hieroglyphica
 ostendimus. In circuitu signatae sunt 72 literae ex Cabala extractae, quarum vnaquaeque Angelum ex
 72 indicat; de quibus vide Cabalam Hebraeorum fol. 275. Quis hic prima fronte non rideat
 maleferiatorum hominum stoliditatem, dum ineptijs huiusmodi Cabalisticis pessimé in Latinas literas
 transformatis, tantam tamen fidem habent, vt earum ope montes etiam se transferre posse, sibi
 persuadeant? Sed quoniam Diabolus humani generis hostis nihil agit, nisi quod in contumeliam Christi
 hominumque perniciem cedat; hinc ad Satanicam nequitiam tegendam, data opera, attributa Christi in
 cornibus heptagoni ponunt, id est, Angelus tenebrarum sub forma lucis sese exhibet; sunt autem
 sequentia attributa. Intra cornu AB, intra quadratum singulis Crucis angulis quatuor literae insertae
 spectantur a.g.l.a. quod Hebraicum nomen est, & in Cabala celeberrimum , quod expanse idem
 significat ac,  Tu fortis in aeternum Domine: Si enim capitalis singularum vocum
 literas in vnum iunxeris, prodibit nomen  Agla, vti quadratum ostendit. Intra cornu BC ponitur 
Eli, id est, Deus meus. Intra cornu CD ponitur  Eloi, quod tametsi idem prorsus cum
 praecedente significet, tanquam diuersum tamen quidpiam posuerunt; vt vel hinc horum nebulonum
 supinam ignorantiam & inscitiam colligas. Intra DE Christus, deinde Sother, quod Graecé Saluatorem
 significat, né verminosum machinamentum Graeca voce carerer. Sequuntur postea Adonay & Sadai;
 illud Dominum, hoc Omnipotentem notat. Atque haec sunt septem attributa Christi, quibus subiungunt
 septem Veneris Intelligentias, quae sunt Cafziel, Satquiel, Samael, Raphael, Mahel, Michael, Gabriel;
 quae vocabula Hebraica passim translata sunt; vt vel ex hoc ipso appareat, á Deo bonisque Angelis
 emanare minime posse, quod tam turpiter, non nisi ab omnis turpitudinis Cacodaemone,
 transformatum est: talia sunt in heptagoni lateribus inscripta, verius ex culina Diaboli, quam ex
 Cabala translata vocabula. Inscribunt tandem huic heptagono pentagonum, in cuius centro litera T
 symbolum salutis; circa quod cum has literas  scribere debuissent, bestijs tamen inscitiores has
 supposuerunt e e e e y. Intra triangula vero ex Arabum amuletaria officina ponuntur yl, al, le, al, um,
 corruptissimé vti omnia alia; volebant enim illud Arabicum exprimere la alla ella alla,
 non est Deus nisi Deus, quod dum pronunciare nequirent, illorum loco dicta inconcinnissima verba
 posuerunt, yl, al, le, al, um: sed quid sibi velint duo verba, um, explico. In dicto Arabum pronunciato
 sem , per hae voces sequuntur, Mahumet rassulalla; atque harum capitales literas
 referunt um. Vt vel ex hoc colligas, quantis modis illudat Daemon incautis hominibus, vt dum
 Christiani esse volunt, occulte Mahumetanismum profiteantur; in hoc enim vnico Amuleto quatuor
 sectarum, Iudaicae, Christianae, Mahumetanae, Paganae, ab ijs, qui illud portant, fit professio, id que
 occulto pacto Daemonis, ad Christianae religionis contumeliam ea de causa instituto. Sed quid
 pentagonum sibi velit, expono. Pentagonum Veteres, vti in Arithmetica docuimus, Marti, vti &
 heptagonum Veneri dedicarunt; quo quidem indicabant, neminem Venerem possidere, qui priús
 Martem non attraxisset; de quibus in Astrologia Aegyptiaca susiús; hoc enim pentagono victoriam in
 omnibus sibi spondebant. Porró finis huius Amuleti erat, amorem & beneuolentiam omnium, &
 consequenter carnalium desideriorum plenam fruitionem, victoriamque contra omnia aduersa eius
 gestatione obtinere; quod ex adiuratione quam pronunciare solent, qua & Deum, & Angelos, veriús
 Cacodaemones cum inuocatione Veneris aut Martis sacrilego & impio ritu sollicitare solent, patet,
quam &, né Christianae aures vulnerentur, consultó omitto. Quicunque itaque huiusmodo possederit
 farinae Amuletum, illud non naturale, non Diuinum aut Angelicum, sed immediatum Diabolicae
 machinationis opus se possidere sibi persuadeat, non nisi cum aeterna animae ruina vsurpandum.
 Figure 9. Sigillum Aemeth from Oedipus Aegyptiacus.
Appendix 3: Theurgia Goetia.
 1800
 It deals with aerial spirits, whose nature is neither entirely good nor evil:
 To call forth any of the aforesaid aerial spirits or their servants, choose the uttermost private,
 secret and most tacit room in the house or in some certain island, wooded grove, or the most occult
 and hidden place, removed from all comers and goers, that no one chance (if possible) happen that
 way into your chamber or whatsoever place else you act your concerns in. Observe that it be very
 airy because these spirits are of that nature.
 You may call these spirits into a crystal stone or glass receptacle, this being the ancient and usual
 way of receiving and binding spirits. This crystal stone must be four inches diameter set on a table of
 art, made according to the following figure, which is truly called the secret table of Solomon, having
 his seal on your breast and the girdle about your waist as is shewed in the book Goetia and you
 cannot err. The form of the table is this:
 Figure 10. Seal of Solomon, from Harley 6483 (left); and from Sloane 3825 (right).
 When you have thus got what is to be prepared, rehearse the conjuration following several times,
 that is, whilst the spirit comes, for without doubt he will come.
The Conjuration of the Aerial Spirits
 I conjure thee O thou mighty and potent duke N. who ruleth under thy prince (or king) N. in the
 dominion of the East (or &c.) (Or, “I conjure thee o thou mighty and potent duke N. who wandereth
 here and there with thy prince N.”1801
 )
 I conjure thee N. that thou forthwith appear alone (or with thy servants) in this first (or second)
 hour of the day, here before me in this crystal stone (or here before this circle) in a fair and comely
 shape, to do my will in all things that I shall desire or request of thee. I conjure and powerfully
 command of thee N. by him who said the word and it was done, and by all the holy and powerful
 names of God and by the name of the only Creator of Heaven, Earth, and Hell, and what is contained
 in them : ADONAY, EL ELOHIM, ELOHE, ELION, ESCERIE ZEBAOTH, JAH,
 TETRAGRAMMATON, SADAY, the only Lord of God of Hosts, that thou forthwith appear unto me
 here in this crystal stone (or here before this circle) in a fair and comely human shape, without doing
 any harm to me or any other creature that JEHOVAH created or made, but come thee peaceably,
 visibly, and affably, now without delay manifesting what I desire, being conjured by the name of the
 eternal living and true God: HELIOREN, TETRAGRAMMATON, ANEPHEXETON, and fulfill my
 commands and persist unto the end. I conjure, command and constrain thee spirit N. by ALPHA &
 OMEGA, by the name PRIMEUMATON, which commandeth the whole host of heaven, and by all
 those names which Moses named when he by the power of those names brought great plagues upon
 Pharoah, and all the people of Egypt: ZEBAOTH, ESCHERIE, ORISTON, ELION, ADONAY,
 PRIMEUMATON, and by the name of SCHEMES AMATHIA which Joshua called upon and the sun
 stayed his course, and by the name of Hagios, and by the SEAL OF ADONAY and by AGLA, ON,
 TETRAGRAMMATON, to whom all creatures are obedient, and by the dreadful judgment of the high
 God and by the holy angels of heave and by the mighty wisdom of the great God of Hosts, that thou
 comest from all parts of the world and make rational answers unto all things I shall ask of thee, and
 come thou peaceably, visibly and affably, speaking unto me with a voice intelligible and to my
 understanding. Therefore come, come thou in the name of ADONAY, ZEBAOTH, ADONAY,
 AMIORAM, come, why stayeth thou, hasten: ADONAY SADAY, the King of kings commandeth thee!
 When he is appeared show him his seal, and the pentacle of Salomon, saying as followeth:
The Address Unto the Spirit Upon His Coming
 Behold the pentacle of Salomon which I have brought before thy presence. Behold the person of the
 Exorcist who is called OCTINOMOS, in the midst of the exorcism, who is armed by God and is
 without fear, who potently invocateth thee and called thee to appear. Therefore make rational answers
 to my demands and be obedient to me thy master in the name of the Lord: BATHAT rudhing upon
 ABRAC, ABEOR coming upon ABERER!
 When thou hast had thy desire of the spirits, licence them to depart as is shewed in the first book
 Goetia, at the latter end of the conjurations.
Appendix 4: Art Pauline.
 1802
 The second example comes from The Art Pauline, which describes calling forth spirits governing the
 hours, and spirits governing the signs of the zodiac:
 First draw two concentric circles whereupon thou wilt draw the seal. In the center circle draw the
 ascendant to the right, and the lord of the ascendant to the left, then in the outer circle draw the rest of
 the planets in the following order: Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn.
 The seal being thus made, lay it on the table of practise whose form we now show, on that part
 which is noted with the same character as the lord of the ascendant.
Figure 11. Table of Practice from the Art Pauline.
 Perfume the seal with the thimmiamate proper to the planet, lay your hand upon it, and then say the
 following conjuration.
The Conjuration as Followeth:
 O thou mighty, great and potent Angel N., who ruleth in the Nth. hour of the day, I the servant of the
 most high God do conjure and entreat thee in the name of the most omnipotent and immortal Lord God
 of Hosts: JEHOVAH TETRAGRAMMATON, and by the name of that God which thou art obedient
 unto, and by the head of the hierarchy and by the seal or mark that thou art known in power by, and by
 the seven angels that stand before the throne of God and by the seven planets and their seals and
 characters, and by the angel that ruleth the sign of the twelfth house which now ascends in this Nth.
 hour, that thou wouldst be graciously pleased to gird up and gather thyself together and by divine
 permission to move and come from all parth of the world, wheresoever thou beest, and show thyself
 visibly and plainly in this crystal stone to the sight of my eyes, speaking with a voice intelligible and
 to my understanding and that thou wouldst be favorably pleased that I may have familiar friendship
 and constant society both now and at all tims when I shall call thee forth to visible appearance to
 inform and direct me in all things that I shall seem good and lawful uunto the creator and thee, O thou
 great and powerful angel N. I invocate, adjure, command and most powerfully call thee forth from
 thine orders and place of residence to visible appearance in and through these great and mighty
 signals and divine names of the great God, who was and is and ever shall be: ADONAY, ZEBAOTH,
 ADONAY AMIORAM, HAGIOS, AGLA, ON, TETRAGRAMMATON, and by and in the name
 PRIMEUMATON, which commandeth the whole host of heaven, whose power and virtue are most
 effectual for the calling and ordering of the creation, I do command thee to transmit thy rays visibly
 and perfectly unto my sight, and thy voice to my ears, in and through this crystal stone, that I may
 plainly see thee and perfectly hear thee speak unto me. Therefore move thee, O thou mighty and
 blessed Angel N., and in this potent name of the great God JEHOVAH, and by the imperial dignity
 thereof, descend and show thyself visibly and perfectly in a pleasant and comely form before me in
 this crystal stone to the sight of my eyes, speaking with a voice intelligible and to my apprehension,
 showing, declaring, and accomplishing all my desires that I shall ask or request of thee both herein
 and in whatsoever truths or things else that is just and lawful before the presence of Almighty God,
 the giver of all good gifts, unto whom I beg that he wuld be graciously pleased to bestow upon me. I
 thou servant of mercy N., be thou therefore unto me friendly, and do for me as for the servant of the
 most high God, so far as God shall give thee power in office to perform, whereunto I move thee in
 power and presence to appear, that I may sing with his holy Angels, OMAPPA-LA-MAN,
 HALLELUJAH, AMEN.
Appendix 5: The Art Almadel (Ars Almadel Salomonis)
 1803
 [Editor’s note: A text of this name is mentioned in Trithemius, and R. Scot.]
 By this art Salomon obtained great wisdom from the chief angels that govern the four altitudes of
 the world, for you must observe that there be four altitudes, representing the four corners of the
 world, East, West, North and South. The which are divided into twelve parts, that is, evert altitude
 into three, and the angels of every of these altitudes have their particular vertues and powers as shall
 be shewed in this following matter.
The Making of the Almadel
 Make the Almadel of pure white wax, but coloured suitable to the altitude as will be shown. It is to
 be four square, and six inches over every way, and in every corner a hole, and write betwixt every
 hole, with a new pen, these words or names of God following, But this is to be done in the day and
 hour of Sol. Write upon the first part towards the East, ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, and upon the
 second towards the South, HELION, HELOI, HELI, and upon the West part: JOD, HOD, AGLA, and
 upon the fourt part which is the North write these names: TETRAGRAMMATON, SHADAI, JAH,
 and betwixt the first and the other quarters make the pentacle of Salomon thus, and betwixt the forst
 and the other quarters write this word, ANABONA, and in the middle of the Almadel make a Six
angled figure, and in the midst of it a triangle wherein must be written these names of God, HEL,
 HELION, ADONAI, and this last name around the six-angled figure as well, as you may see in this
 figure, here made, it being for an example, &c.
 Figure 12. Almadel from Ars Almadel Salomonis.
 And of the same wax there must be made four candles, and they must be of the same colour as the
 Almadel is of. You must divide the wax into three parts, one part for to make the Almadel of, and the
 other two parts for to make the candles of. And let there come forth from every one of them a foot
made of the same wax, for to support the almadel with. This being done, in the next place you are to
 make a seal of pure gold or silver, but Gold is best, wherein must be engraven these three names:
 HELION, HELLUJON, ADONAY
 Note the first altitude is called Chora Orientis, or the East Altitude, and to make any experiment in
 this Chora, it is to be done in the day and hour of the Sun. The power and office of those angels is to
 make all things fruitful and increase, both animals and vegetables, in creation and generation,
 advancing the birth of the children, and making barren women fruitful, &c. Their names are these:
 Alimiel, Gabriel, Borachiel, Lebes and Hellison.
 Note you must not pray for any angels but those that belong to the same altitude you have a desire to
 call forth. And when you operate, set the four candles upon four candle sticks, but be careful you do
 not light them before you begin to operate. Then lay the Almadel between the four candles upon the
 waxen feet that cometh from the candles, and lay the golden seal upon the Almadel. Then, having the
 invocation ready written on virgin parchment, light the candles and read the invocation as is set down
 at the latter end of this part.
 And when he appeareth, he appeareth in the form of an angel carrying in his hand a fan or flag,
 having the picture of a white cross upon it. His body is wrapped round about with a fair cloud, and
 his face very fair and bright, and a crown of rose flowers is upon his head. He descends first upon the
 superscription of the Almadel, as if it were a mist or fog.
 Then must the exorcist must have in readiness a vessel of earth, of the same colour that the Almadel
 is of, and the other of his furniture, it being in the form of a basin, and put therein a few hot ashes or
 coals, but not too much, lest it should melt the wax of the Almadel, and put therein three little grains
 of mastic in powder, so that it fumeth, and the smell may go upwards through the holes of the
 Almadel, when it is under it, and as soon as the angel smells it he beginneth to speak with a low
 voice, asking what your desire is and why you have called the princes and governers of his Altitude.
 Then you must answer him, saying, I desire that all my requests may be granted, and what I pray for
 may be accomplished, for your office maketh appear and declareth that such is to be fulfilled by you if
 it pleases God, &c, adding further the particulars of your requests, praying with sincerity and humility
 for what is lawful and just, and that you shalt indeed obtain from him.
 But if he doth not appear presently, you must then take the golden seal, and make with it three or
 four marks upon the candles, by which means the angel will presently appear as aforesaid, and when
 the angel departeth he will fill the whole place with a sweet and pleasant smell, which will be smelt
 a long time.
 Note the golden seal will serve, and is to be used in the operation of all the altitudes. The colour of
 the Almadel belonging to the first chora is lily white; to the second chora a perfect red rose colour;
 the third chora is to be a green mixt with a white silver colour; the fourth chora is to be a black mixt
 with a little green of a sad colour.
Of the Second Chora or Altitude
 Note that all the other three altitudes, with their signs and princes have power over goods and riches,
 and can make any man rich or poor, and as the first Chora giveth increase and maketh fruitful, so to
 these giveth decrease and barrenness, &c.
 And if any have a desire to operate in any of the other three Choras or Altitudes, they must do it on
 Sundays in the manner as above is shewed, but do not pray for anything that is contrary to the nature
 of their office, or against God and his laws, but what God giveth according to the course of nature,
 that you may desire and obtain.
 All the furniture that is to be used is to be of the same colour as the Almadel is of, and the princes
 of this Second Chora are named as followeth: Alphariza, Genon, Geror, Armon, Gereinin.
 When you operate, kneel before the Almadel with clothes of the same colour in a closet hung with
 the same colours also, for the holy apparation will be of the same colour. And when he is appeared,
 put the earthen bason under the Almadel with fire and hot ashes and three grains of mastic in powder,
 to fume as above written, and when the angel smelleth the perfume, he turneth his face towards you,
 asking the exorcist with a low voice why he called the princes of this Chora or Altitude. Then you
 must answer as before, saying: I desire that my request may be granted, and the contents thereof may
 be accomplished, for your offices make appear and declare that such is to be done by you if it please
 God, &c. You must not be fearful but speak humbly, saying: I recommend myself wholly into your
 office, and I pray unto your princes of this Altitude that I may enjoy and obtain all things according to
 my wishes and desires, &c. You may further express your mind in all particulars in your prayers. Do
 the like in the two other Choras that follow.
 The angel of this second Altitude appeareth in the form of a young child with clothes of satin and of
 a red rose colour, having a crown of red gilly flowers upon his head, his face looking upwards to
 heaven; and is of a red colour and is compassed round about with a bright splendour, as the beams of
 the Sun. And before he departeth he speaks to the exorcist saying: I am your friend and brother. And
 he illuminateth the air round above with splendour, and he leaveth a pleasant smell, which lasteth a
 long time, &c.
Of the Third Chora or Altitude
 In this Chora you are to do in all things as you are before directed in the other two. The angels of this
 Altitude are named as followeth: Eliphamasai, Gelomiros, Gedobonal, Saranana, and Elomnia. They
 appear in the form of children or little women dressed in green and silver colours, very delightful to
 behold, and a crown of bay leaves, beset with flowers of white and green colours upon their heads.
 And they seem to look a little downwards with their faces, &c. They speak as the others do to the
 exorcist, and leave a mighty, sweet perfume behind them, &c.
Of the Fourth Chora or Altitude
 In this Chora you must do as in the others, and the angels of this Chora are called Barchiel, Gediel,
 Gabiel, Deliel and Captiel. These appear in the form of little men or boys with clothes of a black
 colour, mixed with a dark green, and in their hands they hold a bird which is naked, and their heads
 are bear, only it is compassed round and beset with ivy and berries. They are all very beautiful and
 comely and are compassed round with a bright shining of divers colours. They leave a sweet smell
 behind them also, but it differeth from the others somewhat.
Of the Proper Times for Invoking These Angels
 Note there are twelve princes ruling besides those in the four Altitudes, and they distribute their
 office amongst themselves, every one ruling thirty days, or thereabouts, every year. Now it will be in
 vain to call any of those angels unless it be those that then governeth, for every Chora or Altitude hath
 its limited time according to the twelve signs of the Zodiac, and in what sign the Sun is in, that angel
 or those angels that belong to that sign have the government. As, for example, suppose I would call
 the two first of those five that belong to the first Chora. Then choose the first Sunday on March, that
 is, after the Sun is entered Aries, and then I make my experiment. And so do the like if you will the
 next Sunday after again. But if you will call the two second that belong to the first Chora, then you
 must take the Sundays that are in April, after the Sun is entered Taurus.
 But if you call the last of the five, then you must take those Sundays that are in May, after the Sun is
 entered Gemini, to make your experiment in: do the like in the other Altitudes, for they have all one
 way of working. But the Altitudes have a name formed severally in the substance of heaven even as a
 character, for when the angels hear the names of God that are attributed to them they hear it by the
 vertue of that character. Therefore it is in vain to call any spirit or angel unless you know what names
 of God to call them by. Therefore observe the form of this following conjuration or invocation.
The Invocation for to Call Forth Any of the Foresaid Angels
 O thou great, mighty, and blessed angel of God N, who ruleth as the chief and first governing angel in
 the first Chora or Altitude in the East, under the great prince of the East whom you obey, and who is
 set over you as king by the divine power of God, ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, who is the distributer
 and disposer of all things holy in Heaven, Earth, and Hell, I the servant of that God ADONAI,
 HELOMI, PINE, which you obey, do invocate, conjure and entreat thee N, that thou forthwith
 appeareth. And by the vertue and power of the same God, ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, I do command
 thee forth by him whom you do obey and who is set over you as king by the divine power of God, that
 you forthwith descend from thy order or place of abode to come into me, and show thyself plainly and
 visibly here before me in this crystal stone, in thy own and proper shape and glory, speaking with a
 voice intelligible unto my understanding.
 O thou mighty and blessed angel N, who art by the power of God ordained to govern all vegetables
 and animals, and causeth them and all other creatures of God to spring, increase and bring forth
 according to their kinds and natures, I the servant of the same your God, do entreat and humbly
 beseech thee to come and show unto me all things that I shall desire of thee, so far as in office you
 can, or be capable to perform, if God permit to the same.
 O thou servant of mercy N, I entreat thee and humbly beseech thee, in and by these three names of
 your true God, ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, and do constrain thee in and by this powerful name
 ANABONA, that thou forthwith appeareth visibly and plainly in thy own proper shape and glory, in
 and through this crystal stone, that I may visibly see thee, and audibly hear thee speak unto me, that I
 may have thy blessed and glorious angelic assistance, familiar friendship and constant society,
 communication and instruction, both now and at all other times, to inform and rightly instruct me in my
 ignorance and depraved intellect, judgement and understanding; and to assist me both herein, and in
 all other truths, else what the Almighty Adonai, the king of kings, the giver of all good gifts, shall in
 his bountiful and fatherly mercy be graceously pleased to bestow upon me, Therefore O thou blessed
 angel N. be friendly unto me, and do for me so far as God hath given you power in office to perform,
 whereunto I move you in power and presence to appear that I may sing with his holy angels: O
 Mappa-la-man! Hallelujah! Amen.
 Note this invocation is to be altered according to the Altitude and angel you wish to call forth.
 When he is appeared, give him or them a kind entertainment, and then ask what is just and lawful,
 and that which is proper and suitable to his office, and you shall obtain it.
 SO ENDETH THE BOOK 
ARS ALMADEL SALOMONIS
Appendix 6: Excerpt from Sloane 3849
Manner of Proceding in order to discover in the Crystall
 Sic signum sancte Sanctis in fronte puery sic decendo In nomina pateris et filij et spiritus sancti
 amen dicat % paternoster / deinde istos spactanas o pater animary sequentes, viz t
 Deus miserator1804
 nostery et benedicat nobis illiminet vultum suum super nos et miseratas nostery
 ut Cognosamos in tarra viam tuam in omnibus gentibus salutarry tuum. Conficantur tibi populi deus
 Conficanter tibi populi omnes Litenter et exultent gentes quoniam iudicas populos iniquitate et gentes
 interra deriges Conficianter tibi populi deus Conficianter tibi populi omnes Terra dedit fractum suam
 B
 Benedicat nos deus deus noster 
benedicat nos deua et metuante 
eum omnes fines terra. 
Gloria patri et fillio et Spiritu Sancto 
Sicut erat in prinsipio et 
secula seculorum amen
 D
 Deus1805
 D
 in nomine tuo salum me fac et in vertute tua iudica me
 Deus exoude orationem meum auribus percipe verba oris mei
 Quoniam aliena insurrexerunt aodversum me et fortes que siderant animam meam et non
 proposuerunt deum ante
 conspectum sum 
Exe enim deus adiuuat me 
et dominus susseptor est anime me 
Avarta mala enemisis meis 
et in veritate tua dispee illos 
voluntary sacrificabo tibi et Confitebor 
nomine tuo domine quoniam bonum est. 
Quoniam Ex omni tribulatione eripaeisti me 
et super enimicos meos dispecsit oculis meis 
Glorie patrie
 Misereri1806
 mei deus et secundum 
magnam miserecordiam tuam
Et secundum multitadinem meserationem 
tuarum deld in equitatem meam 
dE (?) 
Amptus Sana me abiniquitate mea 
et apeccato mea mandame 
Quoniam iniquitatem meame ego cognosco 
et pecatum meam contra me est semper 
Tibibi soli pecam et malim corum te fesient nist 
insermonibus tuis et vnitas cumim dicaris 
Exe emam iniquitatibus conseptus suam 
et in pecatis conceptis me mater mea
 Exe (?) enimam veritatatem delexisti in terta 
et occulta sapientia manistastati mighi 
Asparges me domine isopo et mundaborir
 haenabis me et semper muem dealdabor 
Auditeiome dabis gouldinam et litia 
et extutabunt essa humilitata 
Cormandoem cre in me deus 
et spiritum nona in viseribus meis 
Me exrpissius mea sacie tua et 
Scriptum sanctum tuamene anseris ame 
Pedde mighi leticiam salataris tui 
et speritum principialis confirma me 
Docebo iniquos viuas tuas 
et impije adte conuertantur 
Libera mede sangunibus deus deus salutis 
me et exultabit lingua me Iusticiam tuam 
Domine labie me aparies 
et os meum ani**abit landem tuam 
Quoniam voluises sacri fissiam dedissem 
vtique holo castis non delectabris 
Sacrifitiam deo spritus contribulates 
cor Contrat et humilitatem deus non dispities 
Benin que sac domine in bona voluntate tua sion 
vt edificanter mari Jeruselem
 tunce acceptabis satis ficium iustisia obligationes 
et holocasta tunck imponetsuper altera 
tuim vertulos Amen. * * * * * * * 
O Dominee Jesu cristie rex gloria mitte mihie 
trese angelos bono / ex parte tua dextra viz 
ancor annasor anelose qui dicante et ofendantie 
mihie veritatem sine falsetate et falatia de 
omnibus rebus quas interagabo domine Jesue 
cristi creator celie et tarra qui totam mundinum (?)
 secistie exmihelo sac quod appariante isti angeli 
boni prinsipialis palem puero / w: w: / exerdom (?) 
nostrum Jesum cristium conceptus de spiritue 
sancto vergine &c./
 Sicat tues verus deus et homo mitte mihie 
tres angelos bonos palem aparire ista cristalo 
viz / Anser / annasor / Analos / admisu istris puerie 
/ W: W: / per iste sacritissima nomina dei eloy tetera- 
grammaton Saboth Alpha et omega principium 
et finis expediatris vos angely deij per sanctam 
mariam matrem domine nostri Jesu Cristy et per 
nomen ordenes angelorum Cherubin Saraphin 
tronos dominationes potestatis et principialis 
et pervirtutem archangelius michalis gabrialis
 qui non cestante clannary ante tronam dei semper 
cantatis Sanctus Sanctus Sanctus dominus Deus 
saboth quiest quierit et quiventurus / omnes reliquos qui 
sunti? in est in decare mandum et pur puer celo et tarra 
et parlac quod dominus noster Jesus cristus lactabit 
ex manus beate maryu vergenis quanddo verus puer 
erat elle in hac mundo et per vestem communam qua in dutus (?) 
est Jesus et pervingen tam dequo sancta maria mageline 
vnxit pedes Iesus et extarat eos calpilis cupitus suis 
quando palem et sine mora comperiatis ad visma istius 
puery : N: / N: / ista cristalo ******************* 
**(?) oher it will appeare as it weare a child in the Cristall 
if hee doe not appeare begine againe and if hee had 
apeared then spake to the first Angeli dei beni 
venistie in nomini pateris et fillij et spiritus sanctus 
pillam intentionem quam habuit dominus deus
 noster Jesus Christus minente (?) quando deposuit 
luisiseri mundecelom putrem serioris et eligit vos 
probelantisiones angelis. 
Then Cale for the second as you due for the first 
so proside and begin againe vntill you haue them all 
three and then say to the second Angell 
Angeli dei beni venistris in nomine pateris et fillij et
 Spiritus sancti per verginalem materis domine 
nosteri Iesu Christie et per vergini tatem Johannes 
baptisti et per capitutenis* 
proceed to the theerd
 Angeli dei beni venistris in nomine pateris et feillij et spiritis sancti pre nerentiam passiones
 domine nostri Jesu Christi et per renerentiam sacrimenti illiaris que dominus noster Jesus cristus fecit
 in send sua et dedit desiputis suis dictus hoc est corpus meum hoc cessat * *
 Then say this exortation ouer the cristall folowinge and mat this + synd.
 Quose Angeli + rogo vos presipio vobis vos exorsiso peromina principialibe nomina qui noliset
 homin~ loqui nisi sp’us sancti + et per reuerentiam sacrementy pasio dei nosteri Jesus Cristi et
 reuerentunam sacromentie alteris q’d (?) deus noster Jesus cristus fecit cena sua et dedid dicipulis
 suis dicence hoc este corpus meum q’d (?) mostratis mihe sine salcitate vel fallatia petita et loquisita
 et petenta et reuerenda
 Theise exortations you must repeate and let the child name them by there names sainge ancor
 anasor anelos shew mee the persons and the aparell of them that hath such a mans mony to this childe
 and the will declare.
 the pson or persons and the apparell of them that had such a mans money [struck out: to this child]
 and if the Come not the first day folow still to the Chilld untill you may haue a sight of them for the
 will apeare personalie as the to be knowne and the will declare how much of the mony is spent and
 how much is unspente.
 And the feror day the better and let the child sit with his face to ward the sune lookinge in the
 cristal and euer aske him what hee seeth as you Reade
 Trantiatis angeli dei et lenam vbi deus nostr Jesus Christus vos ordinauit et quoties cunque
 invocauero esto mihi parietis et ad measm interrogationem et mandatum est mihi quoties cunque sine
 mora veniatis, In nomine patris et fillij et spiritus Sankti Amen +
 Maim + fan + Abagarus +
 Abrinon +
Bibliography
 Abano, Peter de. Heptameron: or Magical Elements. London, 1655.
 Agrippa, Henry Cornelius. De occulta philosophis Libri Tres. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1992, English
 translation by Robert Turner, published as Three Books of Occult Philosophy, London, 1651.
 ————. The Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy. Translated by Robert Turner. London, 1655.
 Anon. Lemegeton, or, the Lesser Key of Solomon, manuscripts in the British Library: Harley 6483,
 Sloane 2731 (incomplete), Sloane 3825.
 Anon. Tractatus Varii Magici, Sloane 3849.
 Arbatel. De Magia Veterum. Basel, 1575. English translation by Robert Turner, published as Arbatel,
 Of Magic, London, 1655.
 Barrett, Francis. The Magus. London, 1801. Reprint York Beach, ME: Samuel Weiser, 2000.
 Brahe, Tycho. The Magical Calendar, 1582. Reprint Magnum Opus Hermetic Sourceworks,
 Edinburgh, 1979.
 Bruno, Giordano. De magia, in Jordani Bruni Nolani Opera latine conscripta. Ed. Tocco. Neapoli,
 1879—91. English translation in Robert De Lucca, Richard J. Blackwell, and Alfonso Ingegno,
 Giordano Bruno, Cause, Principle and Unity: And Essays on Magic. Cambridge: Cambridge
 University Press, 1998.
 Calder, I. R. F. John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist, 2 vols. Ph. D. diss. The Warberg
 Institute, London University, 1952.
 Charlesworth, James H. The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha. New York: Doubleday, 1983.
 Clulee, Nicholas H. John Dee’s Natural Philosophy—between science and religion. London and
 New York: Routledge, 1988.
 Couliano, loan P. Eros and Magic in the Renaissance. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987.
 Davidson, Gustav. A Dictionary of Angels Including the Fallen Angels. New York: The Free Press,
 1967.
 Dee, Dr. John. General and Rare Memorials pertayning to the Perfect Arte of Navigation. London,
 1577.
 Dee, Dr. John and Edward Kelly. Liber Mysteriorum Sextus et Sanctus. 1583, manuscripts in the
British Library: Sloane 3189 (original in Kelly’s handwriting), Sloane 2599.
 ————. Mysteriorum Libri Quinque, 1581—1583. Sloane 3188 (original in Dee’s handwriting),
 Sloane 3677 (copy by E. Ashmole).
 ————. A True & Faithful Relation . . . between Dr. John Dee... and some Spirits, Edited by
 Meric Casaubon. London, 1659.
 ————. The Heptarchia Mystica of John Dee. Introduced and annotated by Robert Turner.
 Edinburgh: Magnum Opus Hermetic Sourceworks, 1983.
 French, Peter J. John Dee: The World of an Elizabethan Magus. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul,
 1972.
 Gollancz, Hermann. Sepher Maphteah Shelomoh. London: Oxford University Press, 1914.
 Halliwell, James O., ed. The Private Diary of Dr. John Dee. London: Camden Society Publications,
 1842. Reprint: New York: AMS Press, 1968.
 Hay, George, ed. The Necronomicon. Jersey: Neville Spearman, 1978.
 Honorius of Thebes. Liber Juratus, or the Sworne Book of Honorius (13th century?). Manuscripts in
 the British Library, Royal 17Axlii, Sloane 313, 3849 (excerpts), 3854, 3885.
 Josten, C. H. Elias Ashmole (1617–1692): His Autobiographical and Historical Notes, His
 Correspondence, and Other Contemporary Sources Relating to His Life and Work. Oxford:
 Clarendon Press, 1966.
 ————, trans. Monas Hieroglyphica. AMBIX, XII, 1964, 84–221.
 Katz, David S. Philo-Semitism and the Readmission of the Jews to England. Oxford: Clarendon
 Press, 1982.
 Kieckhefer, Richard. Forbidden Rites: A Necromancer’s Manual of the Fifteenth Century.
 University Park, PA: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1997.
 Kircher, Athanasius. Oedipus Aegyptiacus, 4 vols. Rome, 1652–1654.
 Laycock, Donald. The Complete Enochian Dictionary, a Dictionary of the Angelical Language as
 Revealed to Dr. John Dee and Edward Kelley. London: Askin Publishers, 1978.
 Lilly, William. Worlds Catastrophe. London, 1647.
 Moody, Raymond A. Scrying—The Art of Female Divination. Marietta: R. Bemis Publishing, Ltd.,
 1995.
 Pickering, Chris. “The Scryers of John Dee,” Hermetic Journal 32, 1986, pp. 9–14.
Postel, Guillaume. De originibus. Basel: Ioannem Oporinum, 1553.
 Peterson, Joseph H., ed., The Lesser Key of Solomon. York Beach, ME: Weiser Books, 2001.
 Reeds, Jim, “John Dee and the Magic Tables in the Book of Soyg a,”
 www.research.att.com/~reeds/soyga.html
 ; 
to appear in a forthcoming book, John Dee:
 Interdisciplinary essays in English Renaissance Thought, Kluwer of Amsterdam (due to publish
 2002).
 Regardie, Francis Israel, ed. The Golden Dawn, 4 vols., 1937–1940. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn
 Publications, 1971.
 Roberts, Julian, and Andrew G. Watson. John Dee’s Library Catalogue. London: The Bibliographical
 Society, 1990.
 Scot, Reginald. The Discoverie of Witchcraft. London, 1584.
 Sherman, William H. John Dee, the Politics of Reading and Writing in the English Renaissance.
 Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.
 Tart, Charles. Body Mind Spirit. Charlottesville: Hampton Roads, 1997.
 Trithemius, Johannes. Book of Secret Things, and Doctrine of Spirits, in Francis Barrett’s The
 Magus, London, 1801, p. 135bis.
 ————. De Septem Secundeis. Translation in William Lilly, Worlds Catastrophe. London, 1647.
 Turner, Robert, trans. Ars Notoria, London, 1657.
 Whitby, C. L. John Dee’s Actions with Spirits. 2 vols. New York: Garland, 1991.
 Wilson, Colin. Alien Dawn, An Investigation into the Contact Experience. New York: Fromm
 International, 1998.
 ————. “Introduction to the Necronomicon,” Gnostica, 48, Nov. 1978, p. 62.
 Yates, Frances Amelia. The Rosicrucian Enlightenment. Boulder, CO: Shambhala, 1972.
 ————. The Art of Memory. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1966.
INDEX
Aaoth
 Ab
 Abano, Peter de
 abductees, UFO
 Abraham
 Abulafia, Abraham
 actor
 Adam
 ADAMS Treatise from Paradise
 adeptship
 Adle streete
 Adonay
 Aemeth
 Aethyrs
 AGLA
 Agricola, De Re Metallica
 Agrippa, Henry Cornelius
 air
 Akele
 alchemy
 Aldaraia sive Soyga, see Soyga
 Almadel
 Alpha et Omega
 Alphabet
 Adamical
 Angelic
 treasure map
 America
 An (name of angel)
 Anael (see also Annael)
 Anchor, Anachor, Anilos
 angelic language, see language, angelic
 angelic Tables
 angels’ voices
 angels, wicked angel belonging to EK
 animals
 Ankwicz-Kleehoven, Hans
 Annael (see also Anael)
 Antichrist
 Apocalyptic prophecies
 Apocrypha
Apostles
 apothecary
 apparel
 Arabic
 book
 ARARITA
 Arbatel of Magic
 archangels
 Aristotle
 Armada, see Spanish Armada
 Ars Almadel
 Ars Notoria
 Ars Paulina
 art of memory
 Arthurian legends
 Ashmole, Elias
 The Institution, Lawes & Ceremonies of the most Noble Order of the Garter
 Asmodeus
 astrology
 astronomy
 Ath
 Aue (name of angel)
 Austria, House of
 Azalus
 Azdobn
Babalel (name of angel)
 Bacon, Francis
 Bacon, Roger
 De mirabili potestate Artis et Naturae
 Bagenol
 Baginol
 Bagonel
 balance
 Baligon
 Bamnode
 Bapnido
 Barashnum ceremony of purification
 Barees
 Barnes, Alderman
 Barrett, Francis
 Basmelo
 Bathori, Stephen, King of Poland
 battles
 beast(s)
 Beelzebub
 Befafes
 beheading
 Beigia
 Belmagel
 Ben (a spiritual creature)
 Bermale
 Bernole
 Besgeme
 Bible
 birds
 Black Raven, The
 Blakley
 blasphemers
 Blisdon
 Blokley
 Blumaza
 Bnagole
 Bnapsen
 Bnaspol
 Bobogel
 Bodleian
Bonefon
 Bonefor
 Book of Consecrations
 Book of Saint Dunstan
 Book of This Prophesy
 book, covering
 Book, the Holy, see Loagaeth
 books, the holy
 Bornogo
 bottomless pit
 Bragiop
 Brahe, Tycho
 Bralges
 Branglo
 Brentford (Braynford)
 brimstone
 Brisfli
 Britannia
 British Empire
 British Museum
 Brorges
 Bruno, Giordano
 Burghley, Lord (William Cecil, the Lord Treasurer)
 Butler, E. M.
 Butmono
 Bynepor
Calder. R. E, “John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist” (1952)
 Calendar, Dee’s proposal to reform
 Call
 Canapy
 Carmara
 Casaubon, Meric
 Casziel
 Catholic Church
 Cecil, William, see Burghley
 Cedar
 cedarwood
 chair
 Chamber
 chaos
 chaplet
 Character, see lamine
 characters
 Charles the 2nd, King
 Charlesworth, James H.
 chest
 Chirurgeon
 Christ
 church
 of God
 cipher
 circle
 Cis
 City
 Clavicula Salomonis, See Key of Solomon
 Clerkson, Mr.
 clothing
 Clulee, Nicholas
 John Dee’s Natural Philosophy (1988)
 colonization
 colors
 comet
 Conciliation
 contrition
 Cooper, Jane
 copper
 Corabiel
corn
 corpses
 Cottonian Collection
 Cotton, John
 Couliano, loan
 council
 cross of olive wood
 Crowley, Aleister
 Crucifix
 cryptography
 crystal ball, and passim frame for the
 Cumael
 cup
 cure
Danes
 Daniel
 Daughters of Light, see Filiae Bonitatis
 David, King of Israel
 Davis, John
 dead raised
 Death, Gate of
 debt
 Dee, John
 48 Claves Angelicae
 Book of Invocations
 children
 Compendium Heptarchiae Mysticae
 De Bonorum Angelorum
 De Heptarchia Mystica
 diary
 Famous and Rich Discoveries
 General and Rare Memorials (1577)
 Liber Scientiae, Auxilij et Victoriae Terrestris
 Monas Hieroglyphica
 Propaedeumata Aphoristica
 Tabula bonorum angelorum invocationes
 True and Faithful Relation
 Dee, Jane
 Dee, Katherine (John Dee’s daughter)
 Dee, Rowland
 demons
 destruction
 devil
 devils
 Devonshire mines
 Dignification
 Dionysius (Pseudo-)
 directions, cardinal
 disease
 dissolution, key of
 Dmal
 dog
 dragon
 Duke of Lauderdale
 Duling, D. C.
Dunstan, Book of Saint, see Book of Saint Dunstan
E (name of angel)
 eagle
 Earth
 spirits of the
 earths
 Egyptians
 Ekiei
 El (see also rod)
 Elias
 Elizabeth I, Queen
 enchanters
 End of all things
 England
 English language
 Enoch
 Book of
 Enoch’s Tables
 Enochian
 calls
 language
 magic
 ensignes of Creation
 entities
 eroticism
 Esdras
 Ese (name of an angel)
 Esemeli
 etymology
 Euclid
 Evans, John
 Eve
 evil spirits (see also devils)
 Excise Office
 Experimenta de Speculo
 externa bibliotheca
face bracket
 fairies
 fasting
 feet, (placement during practise)
 hollow feet of the holy table
 Ficino, Marcilio
 filiae
 Filiae Bonitatis (Daughters of Goodness) or Filiolae Lucis (Little Daughters of Light)
 Filiae Filiarum Lucis
 Filii Filiorum
 Filii Lucis (Sons of Light)
 filios filiorum (the sons of the sons)
 fire
 great fire of London
 inward
 fish
 flag
 Flesh
 flood
 food
 forgery
 Fornication
 Fortitudo Dei
 = Michael
 Fotheringay Castle
 frame
 French, Peter. J.
 Friday
Gabriel
 Galas
 Galatinus, Petrus
 Galethog
 Gardener, Robert
 Gargat
 Gariladrah
 Gate of Death
 gates of Nature, seven
 Gedeon
 Geller, Uri
 gems
 Genesis
 geography
 Geometry
 Geonic lore
 George (a servant of Dee’s)
 Gethog
 Gikatilla, Joseph
 Gilbert, Adrian
 ghosts
 Globe (circular table)
 diaphonous
 Gnostic
 Goethe
 Goetia
 gold
 Golden Dawn
 Goliath
 Gollancz, Hermann
 Gordanil
 governers
 Governers of the Earth
 Government, new
 grace
 God’s
 heavenly
 Greek
 Grimoires
 gryphon
Hagonel (name of angel)
 hairy spirit
 Hamuthz Gethog
 Haniel
 Harkness, Deborah E.
 haunting
 Haward, Francis
 heart
 Hebrew
 Heeoa
 hell
 Henry VIII, King
 Heptagon (heptagonum stellare)
 Heptameron or Elements of Magic (Peter de Abano)
 Heptarchic magic
 herbs
 Heremita, Marcus, De Lege Spirituali
 Hermeticism
 Hersham
 hexagram
 Hilton, Robert
 history
 Holy Ghost
 holy table, see Table, the Holy
 Honorius of Thebes (see also Liber Juratus)
 Horlun
 Hudson, Mr.
 Huets cross
 Hunnis, William
 Husey, John
 Hyde, Mr.
 hypnagogic images
 hypnotism
I (name of an angel)
 Iamblicus
 Iana (name of an angel)
 Idolatry
 Ih
 Il (angel)
 Ilemese (name of an angel)
 illuminate
 Illuminati
 Illumination
 Ilr
 Impura
 infidels
 Innon
 Inquisition
 Invocating
 iron
 Isaac
 Islam
 Israel
 Ive, Mr.
 Ized
Jacob
 James
 James I, King
 Jekyll, Sir Joseph
 Jesus
 Jews
 John the Baptist
 Johnson, Ben
 Jones, Robert
 Jones, Susanna
 Joshua
 Josten, C. H.
 Jove
 joy
 Judaism
 Jude, Epistle of
 judge
 Jupiter
Kabballah
 Kelley, Edward and passim
 Kelley, Joanna
 Kelley, Thomas
 Kelly’s sister
 key of Prayer
 Key of Solomon (Clavicula Salomonis)
 key, holy
 Kieckhefer, Richard
 kings
 Kircher, Athanasius
 knowledge
 universal
 Krakow
 
lamb
 lamb’s head
 lamin (character of conciliation, a sigil of gold)
 counterfeit
 false
 Lancaster
 languages
 language, angelic
 Laski, Albrecht (Albertus)
 Latin
 Laycock, Donald
 lead
 Lemegeton (Lesser Key of Solomon)
 Leowitz, Cyprian, De coniunctionibus magnis
 leprosy
 Lesser Key of Solomon, See Lemegeton
 Levanael
 Liba (name of angel)
 Liber Creationis
 Liber Juratus (Honorius of Thebes)
 Liber Loagaeth, see Loagaeth
 library
 Dee’s
 license (legal permission to dig for treasures)
 light
 Lilly, William
 linguistics
 liquor, eternal (or heavenly)
 little Ned
 Loagaeth, Liber
 Lockehouse, George
 London
 love
 of God
 lucid dreaming
 Lucifer
 Lumbardstreet
 Lundrumguffa
 Luther, Martin
 Lyne, Master
 
 
Macedonian
 Madimi
 Madimiel
 Madoc, Owen
 magi
 magic
 Magical Calendar (Tycho Brahe)
 magicians
 Magus
 Maherion
 maid
 Mamon
 marble
 Mares
 maritime power
 Marmara
 marriage
 Mars
 Mary, Queen of Scots
 mathematics
 McGregor Mathers, S. L.
 Me (name of an angel)
 mechanics
 Medicina Dei
 medicine
 memory
 Menabon
 Menasseh Ben Israel
 Mensa faederis (see also Table, the Holy)
 merchants
 Mercury
 mercy
 metals
 Michael
 mineral
 Mines Royall
 mnemonics
 Moldavia
 Monday
 money
 monsters of the sea
Moody, Raymond A.
 Moon
 Moorefields
 Morley, Lord
 Mortlake
 Mort, Mr.
 Moses
 Mountegle, Lord
 Multin
 Munsteris, Latin, Greek and Hebrew
 music
 Myniver, Doctor
NA
 Nalvage
 names (sacred)
 Nariel
 natural philosophy
 Nature
 navigation
 Necromancer
 Necronomicon
 Neoplatonism
 new age
 New World (America)
 colonizing
 New World(s)
 Newberry
 nine days preparation
 Noah’s flood
 nobility
 Nogahel
 Northwest Passage
 Northwik hill
 North, Mr.
oath
 Obelison
 obsidian mirror
 occultism
 Och
 oil
 olive beads
 optics
 Owen, Mr.
 Oxford
pagans
 painting
 Palatinate
 papal nuncio
 Paracelsus
 Paradise
 Paris
 Pavorinus, Varinus, Greek Lexicon
 Peace of God
 Pele
 pelican
 penitence
 Pentacle
 Pentecost, Goodman
 Peterson, Joseph H., Lesser Key of Solomon
 Phanael
 phantasms
 Pharaoh
 Philip II, King of Spain
 philosophers
 phoenix
 Pickering, Chris
 Pico, Giovanni della Mirandola
 pies
 pigeon
 pillars of brass
 pillory
 plagues
 planets
 Plato
 Plotinus
 Plow, the
 Poland
 POLIPOS
 Pompilius
 Pontano, Giovanni, Urania sine de stellis
 Pontois, John
 Pope Gregory XIII
 Porphyry
 Postel, Guillaume
 powder, red (of transmutation)
powers (forty-nine)
 Prague
 prayer
 pride
 priests
 high
 Primus et quartus (name or title for angel Hagonel)
 Prince(s)
 Prince of Darkness
 Proclus
 Profession, Angel of
 prophecy
 Prospero
 Psalms
 Pseudepigrapha
quicksilver
Raleigh, Sir Walter
 Raphael
 Reeds, Jim
 Regardie, Israel
 Reuchlin, Johann
 Artem Cabalisticam
 de Verbo Mirifico
 Richard of St. Victor
 Ring of Solomon
 Rivius, J.
 Roberts, Julian and Andrew Watson
 Rocle (name of angel)
 rod
 ‘el’
 Roman
 Rome
 Rosicrucian
 Rudolph
S (name of an angel)
 Sabathiel, see Zabathiel
 Sabbath
 saints
 Salamian
 Salomon
 Samael
 Samuel
 Sanford, Mr.
Satan
 Saturday
 Saturn
 Saul (Biblical figure)
 Saul, Barnabas
 Scalinger
 scarf
 Schemhamphoras
 scholars
 sciences
 Scientism
 scotcheons
 Scotland
 Scotus
 Scot, Reginald
 scroll (treasure map)
 scroll, book, and powder
 scrying, and passim
 seal(s)
 seas
 secrecy
 Semeliel
 Semiael
 Semiel
 Semyeil
 seven
 Seven Sobs of a Sorrowful Soul for Sin (William Hunnis)
 sex
 shadow
 Shakespeare
 Sherman, William H.
 Shew-stone
 Shippen, William
 Ships
 Shumaker, Wayne
 Sidney, Sir Philip
 Defence of Poesia
 Sieradz, Poland
 sigil
 silk
silver
 skin
 skulls
 Skullthorp, Mr.
 Sled, Charles
 smokes
 solar eclipse
 solgars
 Solomon, King of Israel
 Seal of
 Testament of
 Sons of Light, see Filii Lucis
 Sons of Men (aka children of men)
 Sons of Sempiternitie
 soul
 language of
 Soyga (Aldaraia sive Soyga)
 Spanish Armada
 sparrow
 spirit of God
 spirit of Understanding
 Spirits of Destruction
 Spirits of perdition
 Sponheim, Germany
 squares, magic
 Staff
 Stanley, William
 stars
 stenography
 Stimcul
 stolen goods
 stone
 stone (brought by angels)
 Story, Samuell
 St. Bride’s Church, London
 sulfur, see brimstone
 Sun
 Sunday
 Superaltare
 supernova
 superstition
Surrey
 swan
 Sworne Book of Honorius , see Liber Juratus
 Synfulla
 Syngolla
 
Tabernacle
 Table
 infernal
 of Covenant
 the Holy (aka Table of Practise, and also Mensa Faederis)
 feet
 scrying
 tables
 Tablet
 Tabula collecta
 Tabulae Creationis
 Talbot, Edward (aka Edward Kelley), and passim
 Tart, Charles
 tassels
 temperance
 Temple
 temptation
 tennis
 Testament of Solomon
 Thaoth
 Theurgia Goetia
 thorny path
 Thrones
 Thursday
 time
 of governing
 tin
 Tobias
 Tobit, Book of
 tongue
 Tower of Babel
 Tower of London
 Townson, Mr.
 Trade
 traditions
 traitors
 transmutation
 Transposition of letters
 treasure
 in the seas
 map (scroll)
Treasurer, Lord, see Burghley
 Treatise on Angel Magic
 Tree
 triangular stone
 Trinity
 Trithemius, Johannes
 De Septem Secundeis
 trumpet
 Tuesday
 Turner, Robert
UFO
 Uriel
Vallee, Jacque
 Vasedg
 vegetable
 Venus
 Vera
 Virgil, Eclogues III
Wale, Thomas
 Walmesley
 water(s)
 king of the
 wax
 weapons (spiritual)
 Wednesday
 Weever
 Welsh
 Westminster
 Whitby, Christopher
 Wilby, Christian
 Wilson, Colin
 winds
 witch
 Witchcrafts
 witches
 Woodall, John
 Woodall, Thomas
 Worchester
 wrath of God
Yates, Francis A.
 Yong, Mr.
Zabathiel
 Zadkiel
 Zaphiel
 Zaphkiel
 Zedekieil
 Zoroastrianism
1
 I. R. F. Calder, “John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist,” 2 vols. Ph. D. diss. (The Warberg
 Institute, London University, 1952); Peter J. French, John Dee: The World of an Elizabethan Magus
 (London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1972); Nicholas H. Clulee, John Dee’s Natural Philosophy
 —between science and religion. (London and New York: Routledge, 1988); William H. Sherman,
 John Dee, the Politics of Reading and Writing in the English Renaissance (Amherst: University of
 Massachusetts Press, 1995).
 2
 See list in Peter French, John Dee: The World of an Elizabethan Magus, pp. 216–29.
 3
 Many of these apparent conflicts are still with us today. Charles Tart, Body Mind Spirit
 (Charlottesville: Hampton Roads, 1997), observes that Scientism, a belief that scoffs at anything that
 doesn’t fit our supposedly scientific beliefs, has become “the world’s most powerful (and negative)
 religion.” It is interesting to note that most modern religious studies carefully avoid Scientism.
 4
 Frances A. Yates, The Rosicrucian Enlightenment (Boulder: Shambhala, 1978), p. xii.
 5
 Some have argued there are actually two systems: the Heptarchic system (represented by this
 manuscript and Dee’s Heptarchia Mystica), and the Enochian system, represented by later records,
 especially TFR.
 6
 See C. H. Josten’s translation of Dee’s Monas Hieroglyphica (AMBIX, XII, 1964, 84–221), and
 Nicholas Clulee’s analysis in John Dee’s Natural Philosophy (London: Routledge, 1988), p. 77ff.
 7
 Although there has been some criticism of Dr. Yates’ work in recent years, I have found the views of
 Roberts and Watson to be the most balanced: “The influence of the later work of Yates herself will be
 widely apparent for although that often seems hasty and over-enthusiastic, our own research has
 frequently confirmed rather than contradicted hers. . . .” Julian Roberts and Andrew Watson, John
 Dee’s Library Catalogue (London: The Bibliographical Society, 1990), p. 26.
 8
 R. Turner writes, “Mistakes abound in both the Crowley and Regardie printed Enochian texts. I
 counted 91 in the first Call alone when comparing these with Dee’s original manuscript (see Sloane
 3191, British Museum).” Cited by Colin Wilson, “Introduction to the Necronomicon,” Gnostica, 48,
 Nov. 1978, p. 62.
 9
 The first edition was limited to 500 copies. Another version was produced by Christopher Whitby as
 his doctoral thesis. This had a small reprinting as John Dee’s Actions with Spirits, 2 vols. (New
York: Garland, 1991).
 10
 William Sherman, John Dee, p. 149.
 11
 These records were published in 1659 by Meric Casaubon as A True & Faithful Relation . . .
 Between Dr. John Dee . . . and Some Spirits (TFR). Casaubon’s main intent in publishing this
 material was to discredit Dee’s reputation.
 12
 For example, he is credited with coining the word “unit,” which he used to translate the Greek
 “monas.” He also coined the word “Britannia.”
 13
 Monas, Theorem 23.
 14
 Monas, dedication to King Maximilian, passim, pp. 115 ff.
 15
 Peter J. French, John Dee, The World of an Elizabethan Magus, 1972, pp. 40 ff.
 16
 Hans Ankwicz-Kleehoven observes, “Just as no distinguished foreigner at the beginning of the
 nineteenth century omitted to pay his respects to Goethe in Weimar, so it was good form in the
 Germany of circa 1500 to have called on Trithemius at Sponheim.” Cited in loan P. Couliano, Eros
 and Magic in the Renaissance (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987), p. 166.
 17
 William Sherman, John Dee, p. 51.
 18
 William Sherman has given us an excellent sense of it in his book; see especially p. 40.
 19
 “Dee could hardly have held a more prominent place in . . . the genesis of the British Empire.” See
 William Sherman, John Dee, pp. 148 ff and passim.
 20
 A large element of Dee’s patriotism was his fascination with the Arthurian legends. He was largely
 responsible for reviving interest in them. Dee believed himself to be of royal descent.
 21
 British Library, Sloane manuscript 3188, fol. 65a. See also John Dee, General and Rare Memorials
 pertayning to the Perfect Arte of NAVIGATION (GRM) (London: John Daye, 1577).
22
 Johannes Trithemius in De Septem Secundeis (translation in William Lilly, Worlds Catastrophe,
 London, 1647), wrote that world history was governed by the rules of seven angels, each ruling 354
 years and 4 months. The angels told Dee that “the 7 Governours have almost ended their Government”
 (TFR, p. 4). Dee’s copy of Cyprian Leowitz, De Conjunctionibus Magnis Insignioribus Superiorum
 Planetarum (Leuingen, 1564), has “underlinings and a few notes” (item 631, R&W).
 23
 GRM (1577) is dated 5540, and A Playne Discourse . . . concerning the needful reformation of ye
 vulgar kallender (Oxford: Bodleian Library, Ashmole MS 1789, article 3, 1582) is dated 5545.
 24
 The title page for Dee’s General and Rare Memorials shows a timeline of history of something over
 6,000 years. If 6,000 years is significant to him as it was to others, his calculations would put the end
 at A.D. 2037.
 25
 See also I. R. F. Calder, “John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist,” chapter 9, section 3.
 26
 Mysterium Libri Quinque (MLQ), 16 November 1582.
 27
 TFR, p. 43.
 28
 I. R. F. Calder, “John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist,” chapter 8, section 8. See also William
 Sherman, John Dee, pp. 187, 188.
 29
 The Archangel Uriel, 11 March 1582.
 30
 See Monas, p. 133, “the Hebrew cabbalist . . . will own that, without regard to person, the same
 benevolent God is not only [the God] of the Jews, but of all peoples, nations, and languages.”
 31
 Bynepor, 20 November 1582; Medicina Dei, 24 March 1583; Michael, 23 May 1583.
 32
 A similar “invitation” led Giordano Bruno to his death at the stake in 1600.
 33
 For example, “AGLA” and “ARARITA” are acronyms derived from verses of scripture. See
 Cornelius Agrippa, De occulta philosophia Libri Tres (Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1992), book 3, chapter xi,
p. 428.
 34
 For example, Arbatel, De Magia Veterum (Basel, 1575), p. 21, Aphor. 14: “da mihi unum de
 spiritibus tuis, qui me doceat ea, quae vis nos discere & cognoscere, ad laudem & honorem tuum &
 utilitatem proximi.” (“Grant me therefore one of thy spirits, who may teach me those things which
 thou wouldest have me to know and learn, to thy praise and glory, and the profit of our neighbour.”)
 35
 For example, Cornelius Agrippa, De occulta philosophia, book 2, chap. 22, pp. 314–18.
 36
 There have been a number of recent books and movies with the theme of Dee’s magic.
 37
 R&W, p. 29.
 38
 R&W, p. 168. They catalog it as DM 70 and note, “On fol.9 (originally the first leaf, fol.1–8 having
 been misbound) is [Dee’s ladder symbol] and, very faint, ‘Fragmentum Magicum,’ which may be in
 Dee’s hand. At the foot is ‘Sum Ben: Jonsonij liber.’”
 39
 Sloane 3188 fol. 48r.
 40
 A version of this text with discussion is included in Richard Kieckhefer’s Forbidden Rites: A
 Necromancer’s Manual of the Fifteenth Century (University Park: Pennsylvania State University
 Press, 1997), pp. 8–10, p. 256 ff.
 41
 Judaism was outlawed in England and much of Europe at the time. Note Dee’s comment “we can
 hardly trust anything in the Jews hands . . . they are a stiffnecked people and dispersed all the world
 over.”
 42
 They list it as DM 166, pg 183.
 43
 See Jim Reeds, “John Dee and the Magic Tables in the Book of Soyga,”
 www.research.att.com/~reeds/soyga.html
 ; 
to appear in a forthcoming book John Dee:
 Interdisciplinary Essays in English Renaissance Thought, Kluwer of Amsterdam.
 44
 Bodley MS 908, p. 4, line 3. See figure 2.
 45
R&W, p. 183.
 46
 It is not clear why Roberts and Watson make this identification. They note Francis Maddison’s theory
 that Aldaraia = Ar. Al Dirâya “knowledge, cognizance, acquintance,” but that is only hypothetical.
 They also note that Dee sent a servant (20 October 1595) to recover his Arabic book from Mr Abbot
 (?) at Oxford and (19 November 1595) “my Arabik boke restored by gods favor.” James Orchard
 Halliwell, ed., The Private Diary of Dr. John Dee (New York: AMS Press, 1968), p. 54.
 47
 Genesis 44:4–5.
 48
 Raymond A. Moody, Scrying—The Art of Female Divination (Marietta: R. Bemis Publishing, Ltd.,
 1995), p. 7.
 49
 For some examples, see Richard Kieckhefer, Forbidden Rites, experiments 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25,
 27, 29, 33, 38, 39, and 40. Reginald Scot, Discoverie of Witchcraft (New York: Dover Publications,
 1584/1973), published extracts from magic handbooks; many deal with scrying (e.g., pp. 148–9, 232
5, 238–9, 245–6, 249–50). Francis Barrett, The Magus (London, 1801; reprint: Secaucus: The
 Citadel Press, 1975) pp. 135bis ff, published scrying instructions from Trithemius (or pseudo
Trithemius). See also manuscripts Sloane 1317, 3846 (art 6), 3848, 3949 (arts. 1, 3), 3851, 3853 (art.
 9), 3854 (art 5).
 50
 According to Couliano, mnemonics, along with eroticism, is an essential component of magic, “to
 such an extent that it is impossible to understand [magic] without first having studied the principles
 and mechanisms of the first two” (Eros and Magic in the Renaissance, p. xviii). See also Frances A.
 Yates, The Art of Memor, and Giordano Bruno’s De magia in Jordani Bruni Nolani Opera latine
 conscripta (Neapoli, 1879–91). English translation in Robert De Lucca, Richard J. Blackwell, and
 Alfonso Ingegno, Giordano Bruno, Cause, Principle and Unity: And Essays on Magic (Cambridge:
 Cambridge University Press, 1998).
 51
 I. P. Couliano, Eros and Magic in the Renaissance, p. 5.
 52
 He mentions scrying in his Monas Hieroglyphica (1564).
 53
 See “The Scryers of John Dee,” Chris Pickering, Hermetic Journal 32, pp. 9–14. Another example of
 Dee seeing angels may be TFR 25, where he writes “Thereupon I perceived the presence of some
 good spiritual Creature, and straight way appeared the good Angel. I.L.”
 54
This friend was Edward Kelley, a.k.a. Edward Talbot.
 55
 Above this entry, someone wrote, “You that rede this underwritten assure yourselfe that yt is a
 shamfull lye, for Talbot neither studied for any such thinge not shewed himselfe dishonest in any
 thinge.” Dee added the comment, “This is Mr. Talbot or that lerned man, his own writing in my boke,
 very unduely as he cam by it.” There are also some additional notes by Talbot/Kelley that have been
 erased. Diary quotations are from James Orchard Halliwell, ed., The Private Diary of Dr. John Dee
 (New York: AMS Press, 1968) pp. 13–16.
 56
 Although Christopher Whitby (John Dee’s Actions with Spirits, pp. 138-141) questions whether the
 obsidian mirror was actually Dee’s, it is commonly accepted. John Pontois, Dee’s heir, was said to
 have “a certain round flat stone like Cristall which Pountis said was a stone which an Angell brought
 to doctor dye wherein he did worke and know many strange things . . .” See R&W, p. 61. See figure
 8.1 in Nicholas Clulee, John Dee’s Natural Philosophy. This probably was the scrying stone that the
 angels mysteriously delivered on 21 November 1582 out of “the uttermost part of the Roman
 Possession.” Dee describes it as being “half an inch thick” (5 May, 1583), although Dee’s drawing of
 the former in Sloane 3191 clearly shows a sphere whereas the mirror is flat and has a handle.
 57
 Quoted in Christopher Whitby, John Dee’s Actions with Spirits, p. 92. Compare with the drawing and
 description found in (pseudo-?) Trithemius. The Art of Drawing Spirits in to Crystals in Francis
 Barrett, The Magus, book 2, p. 128 (York Beach, ME: Samuel Weiser, 2000). In addition to Raphael,
 Gabriel, and Uriel, Trithemius includes Michael.
 58
 Nicholas Clulee, John Dee’s Natural Philosophy, p. 206. See the first action, where, after “fervent
 prayers to God,” Saul is asked to look into the stone and see “yf God had sent his holy Angel Anael.”
 59
 As an example, British Library Sloane manuscript 3849 (“Manner of Proceding in order to discover
 in the Crystall”) starts out with the seven Psalms before proceeding to ask Jesus to send the three
 angels “ancor annasor anelose.” Reginald Scot, in his 1584 edition of The Discoverie of Witchcraft
 (book 15, chapter 12), quotes from a magical text at length on how “to have a spirit inclosed into a
 christall stone or berill glasse, &c. First thou in the new of the moon being clothed with all new, and
fresh, & cleane araie, and shaven, and that day to fast with bread and water, and being cleane
 confessed, saie the seaven psalmes, and the letanie, for the space of two daies, with this praier
 following . . .”
 60
 For example, see TFR, p. 25: “There appeared to E.K. a round Globe of white smoke over my head”
 (a UFO?). MLQ, 10 April 1583: “there appeared in the corner of my study a blak shadow.”
 Sometimes, the whole chamber appeared in the stone (e.g., MLQ, 15 March 1582).
 61
 Peter French, John Dee, The World of an Elizabethan Magus, pp. 113, n. 2.
 62
 Oxford: Bodleian Library MS Ashmole 1790, fol. 58.
 63
 British Library manuscript Royal 17 Axlii fol. 3v.
 64
 Athanasius Kircher, Oedipus Aegyptiacus (Rome, 1652–54). The most interesting part of Kircher’s
 discussion is his attempt to link the seal with Islamic mystical tradition. Since the use of this sigil is
 central to the present work, I include Kircher’s discussion of it in appendix 2.
 65
 Oxford: Bodleian Library, Ashmole MS 1790, fols. 55a–56a.
 66
 Hermann Gollancz, Sepher Maphteah Shelomoh (London: Oxford University Press, 1914), fol. 38a.
 67
 Goetia also enjoins the use of a second lamin that has a five-pointed star.
 68
 Translation by D. C. Duling in James H. Charlesworth, The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, vol. 1
 (New York: Doubleday, 1983) pp. 935 ff.
 69
 For example, see British Library, Harley manuscript 5596, fifteenth century. Note the largest section
 of this manuscript is the Clavicula Salomonis.
 70
 Cornelius Agrippa, De occulta philosophia, book 2, chap. 7, p. 266.
 71
 The Magical Calendar, ed. Adam McLean (Grand Rapids, MI: Phanes Press, 1994), p. 32.
 72
Johannes Trithemius, The Art of Drawing Spirits into Crystals in Francis Barrett’s The Magus, book
 2, (York Beach, ME: Samuel Weiser, 2000), p. 128.
 73
 (pseudo-) Henry Cornelius Agrippa, Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy (London, 1655, reprint
 London: Askin Publishers, 1978).
 74
 Agrippa.
 75
 The Key of Solomon the King (Clavicula Salomonis), first translated and edited from ancient
 manuscripts in the British Museum by S. Liddell MacGregor Mathers (London: George Redway,
 1889; reissued, York Beach, ME: Samuel Weiser, 2000, p. 93). Mathers’ reading most closely
 follows British Library manuscript Additional 10862, folio 116v (consecration of vestments): “Amor,
 Amator, Amides, Ideodaniach, Paucor, Playor, Anitor, per merita eorum sanctorum Angelorum . . .”
 The same manuscript again invokes these angels during the consecration of the silk cloth on fol. 64v:
 “Adonay, Anosbias anereneton, agla, athanatos, agyos, ancor, anachor, anilos, Theodomos, agnefeton,
 Cedyon, Lamet, Cetelfares, cos, Tetragrammaton.” Strangely, Mathers omits this conjuration. Mathers’
 other manuscript authorities read as follows: Sloane 3091, fol. 84v: “ancor, amacor, amade.
 Theodonia, Pancorpsagor, Anotor, parles merites des Saints Anges, . . .” Harley 3981 fol. 112v:
 “Ancor, Amacor, Amade, Theodonia, Pancor = psagor, Anitor, par les merites des Saints Anges . . .”
 Kings 288 fol. 111v: “Anco, Amacor, Amade, Theodonia, Pancor, Psagor, Anitor, parles merites, des
 Saints Anges . . .” Ancor, Amacor, Amides, Teodonia, Pancor, Amitor, par les merites des Saintes . . .
 Sloane 1307 (missing from chapter on vestments but includes the following for consecrating the
 parchment fol. 109v:) “Autor, Amaur, Theodomos, Phagar, Abacri, adestote ad custodiam istius
 carte.” Other manuscripts of the Key of Solomon in the British Library not used by Mathers preserve
 some valuable readings: Sloane 3847 fol. 46v (consecration of clothing): “Anchor, Anachor, anilos,
 theodonos, phagor, Ianitor, per merita Angelorum sanctorum . . .” fol. 60r (preparation of parchment):
 “Ancor, anacor, amlos, Theodomos, Phagor, adestote in custodia huius carte” fol. 60v: “Lazay,
 Salmay, Dalmay, Adonay, Saday, Tetragrammaton, anepheneton, Cedyon, Aryon, Anereneton,
 Athanatos, Theos, Theodomos, anilos, pes, kyros, abos, Theophilos, Onoy, Zoron, Largon, Lazaryon,
 Theophilon, Tisyon, Alyon, Occinomos, Zacharion, Sydion, Agla, Joth, heth, he, vau, el, emanuel, Ja
 Ja, Vah, ancor, anilos, Theodonas angeli sancti dei . . .” Additional 36674 fol. 15v: “Antor, Anator,
 Anabis, Theodomas, lanitor
 [or Iamtor], by
 the desertes of the holy Anngells
 et
 . . .” Sloane 2383 fol.
 16r (preparation of parchment): “Anator, Amacor, phaidos, theodomos, plagar, abacar, adestote ad
 custodiam istius Cartae” fol. 25v (silk cloth): “Adonay, amatias, anaton prieumaton, agla, Ensoph,
 Cadon, antor, amacor, anilor, [26r] Semanphorus, Samceuaia, tetaph, soned, saemonim. Eos bos,
 Elohim.”
 76
 Joseph H. Peterson, The Lesser Key of Solomon (York Beach, ME, Weiser Books: 2001), p. 47.
 77
 British Library manuscript Royal 17 Axlii fol. 37r. Another manuscript in the British Library, Sloane
 3885 fol. 69r reads: “Ih’u dei filius incompraehensibilis hancor hanacor hanylos iehorna theodonas
helyothos heliotheos phagor corphandonos norizane corithico hanosal helsezope phagora. [37v]
 Eleminator candones helas helee resphaga thephagagayn thetendyn thahanos mtemya heortahonos
 nelos behebos belhores hacaphagan \\\\\ belohothoi ortophagon corphandonos humane natus . . .”
 Sloane 3854 fol 118v: “Ih’u dei filius incomprehensibil’ hancor hanacor hanylos iehorna theodonos
 helyothos heliotheos phagor corphandonos norizane corithico hanosae helsezope phagora. Eleminator
 candones helos orano: helee resphaga thephagagayn thetendyn thahanos uitemya heortalyonos uelos ue
 hebos uel hores hacaphagan ortophagon corphandonos humane natus . . .”
 78
 Peterson, p. 172.
 79
 Gustav Davidson, A Dictionary of Angels Including the Fallen Angels (New York: The Free Press,
 1967), pp. 338–9.
 80
 Christopher Whitby (John Dee’s Actions with Spirits, p. 1) identified these as “notes in cipher by
 William Shippen (1635–1693),” but see C. H. Josten, Elias Ashmole (1617–1692): his
 autobiographical and historical notes, his correspondence, and other contemporary sources
 relating to his life and work (Oxford, 1966), V. 2, p. 10.
 81
 Christopher Whitby, John Dee’s Actions with Spirits, p. 105–6, p. 156.
 82
 Nicholas Clulee, John Dee’s Natural Philosophy, p. 178–9.
 83
 Dee was apparently aware of the existence of the Ethiopic Book of Enoch from Guillaume Postel’s
 De originibus (Basel: Ioannem Oporinum, 1553). See Nicholas Clulee, John Dee’s Natural
 Philosophy, p. 209.
 84
 TFR, p. 159.
 85
 Sloane 3188, fol. 101b.
 86
 William Sherman, John Dee, pp. 16—19.
 87
 See Frances A. Yates, The Rosicrucian Enlightenment, 1978, pp. 41.
 88
 TFR I, p. 173; TFR III, p. 15.
89
 Hermetic Journal, 30, pp. 18—22.
 90
 TFR III, p. 15.
 91
 Sloane 3188.
 92
 Sloane 3191.
 93
 Sloane 3189.
 94
 George Hay, ed., The Necronomicon (Jersey: Neville Spearman, 1978), p. 36.
 95
 Donald C. Laycock, The Complete Enochian Dictionary (York Beach, ME: Weiser Books, 2001), p.
 63.
 96
 James O. Halliwell, ed., The Private Diary of Dr. John Dee (New York: AMS Press, 1968), p. 11,
 May 25, 1581.
 97
 MLQ, 17 November 1582.
 98
 Dee, “Praefatio latina,” 1586 in C. H. Josten’s “An Unknown Chapter in the Life of John Dee,”
 Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes 28 (1965): 233—57. See also Butler, Ritual
 Magic, pp. 259, 268.
 99
 Nicholas Clulee, John Dee’s Natural Philosophy, p. 205.
 100
 See for example, Jacque Vallee’s Messengers of Deception (Berkeley: Ronin Publishing, 1979) and
 Colin Wilson, Alien Dawn (New York: Fromm International, 1998).
 101
 Laski is told he would have the kingdoms of Poland and Moldavia. The angels also incorrectly
 foretell Rudolph’s demise and Stephen’s ascent.
 102
I. R. F. Calder, “John Dee Studied as an English Neoplatonist,” chapter 9, section 4.
 103
 48 Claves Angelicae: “The 48 Angelic Keys.” -Ed.
 104
 The title page of the actual manuscript reads, Liber Scientiae, Auxilij et Victoriae Terrestris: “The
 Book of Earthly Knowledge, Help, and Victory” -Ed.
 105
 10 April 1586.
 106
 30 April 1586.
 107
 The actual title page reads, De Heptarchia Mystica (Diuinis, ipsius Creationis, stabilitœ legibus)
 Collectaneorum / Liber primus: “Concerning the Mystical Heptarchy (divine, of the creation itself,
 with permanent rules) First Book of collected passages” -Ed.
 108
 Sloane 3191.
 109
 William Lilly, noted English astrologer. Born 30 April 1602. Died 9 June 1681.
 110
 “As a further testimony of the sence of Mr. Wales kindnes, shortly after his death, I sent for his son, &
 bestowed on him, one of my deputies places in the Excise, with an allowance of 80 £ per Annum.”
 /E.A.
 111
 Sloane 3189 has the following three names written on a blank page, which may be these former
 owners: Robert Jones, Susanna Jones, George Lockehouse. -Ed.
 112
 till: “drawer or compartment.” - Ed.
 113
 Praeter . . . sapientia: “Besides my other frequent extemporaneous prayers and more ardent
 exhortations to God, this one has been most frequently used. My morning and evening prayer for
 wisdom.” -Ed.
 114
 In nomine . . . placebit: “In the name of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Amen. O
 almighty, eternal, true and living God, be pleased to deliver me! O Lord of Lords, King of Kings,
Jehovah Zebaoth, make haste to help me!(cf. Psalm 70) Glory be to God the Father, and to the Son,
 and to the Holy Spirit: as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
 Teach me to perceive and understand properly (O Creator of all things), for your wisdom is all I
 desire. Fix your word in my ear (O Creator of all things), and fix your wisdom in my heart. O Lord
 Jesus Christ (you who are the true wisdom of your eternal and omnipotent Father) I most humbly beg
 your Divine Majesty that you consider it proper to send me the speedy help of some pious wise man
 and experienced philosopher for realizing and perfecting above all fully those things which will be of
 greatest value for increasing your praise and glory. And if no such mortal man now lives upon the
 earth who is fitting for this work, or who may have been assigned by your eternal providence to the
 performing of that service for me, then truly I most humbly, most ardently, and most faithfully ask from
 your divine majesty that you grant to send me down from heaven your good spiritual ministers and
 angels, namely Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, and also Uriel: and (from your divine favor) any other true
 and faithful angels of yours, who may completely and perfectly train and teach me in the true and
 accurate knowledge and understanding of your secrets and wonders (concerning all your creatures,
 and their nature, properties, and best use) and necessary knowledge for us mortals, to the praise,
 honor, and glory of your name, to my firm solace and otherwise (through me) the solace of the greatest
 number of your faithful, and to the confusion and ruin of the wicked. Amen. Let it be O Jehovah
 Zebaoth; let it be O Adonay; let it be O Elohim. O blessed and omnipotent Trinity, praised above all
 things, grant me (John Dee) this petition, in such a manner that will be most pleasing to you. Amen.” 
Ed.
 115
 Ab anno . . . suam: “From the year 1579 in approximately this manner, in Latin or in English (and
 furthermore in another unique and particular manner, sometimes for Raphael, and sometimes for
 Michael) it was most gratifying to me to pour forth my prayers to God; may God grant me his
 wonderful mercy.” -Ed.
 116
 In Sloane 3677, this note comes before the prayer. -Ed.
 117
 Angelus . . . praedominans: “Angel or intelligence now presiding over the whole world.” -Ed.
 118
 Etymologia: Gratiosa / Afflicta Dei / Misericors: “Etymology: Favored / Distressed of God
 Merciful.” Dee considered Hebrew etymology important and discusses meanings and roots of various
 words in various works of his. It seems he had at least a rudimentary command of Hebrew grammar
 as well. -Ed.
 119
 4 Angeli . . . Quaternarii: “4 angels presiding over the 4 quarters of heaven, as Agrippa notes in the
 Scale of the number four (Occult Phil., Book 2, ch 7).” This grouping of the Archangels is common in
 medieval and Renaissance occult works. In Liber Juratus, one of the earliest books of the Solomonic
 school of magic, these four angels are known as the “Angels of the 4 winds.” Agrippa, in his work,
 De Occulta Philosophia, book 2, chap. 7 (Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1992), pp. 266, calls them the “four
 angels ruling over the corners of the world.” The Magical Calendar of Tycho Brahe gives the same.
Michael and Gabriel are the only two angels mentioned by name in the Old Testament. Raphael is
 mentioned in the apocryphal Book of Tobit, and Uriel is well-known in noncanonical lore. Annael is
 relatively unknown. -Ed.
 120
 Etymologiae: Fortitudo . . . praevalesceus: “Etymology: Michael: Strength of God; Gabriel: either
 made very strong or very powerful or strength of God; Raphael: Medicine of God; Uriel: Light of
 God.” -Ed.
 121
 Anna . . . Deum: “Anna, et Annah, is a particle of the supplicant and confessor: consequently it may
 not be unreasonable that it indicates praying and confessing God.” Dee’s theory is that the name
 Annael derives from Hebrew “Ana” meaning “pray,” or “lament.” The more usual explanation of
 Anael is that it is equivalent to Haniel, and means “Grace of God.” Johannes Trithemius, in De
 Septem Secundeis (translation in William Lilly, Worlds Catastrophe, London, 1647) refers to him as
 the “spirit of Venus.”- Ed.
 122
 Per Sloane 3677.
 123
 Ad Deum . . . Anno 1582: “A faithful declaration to almighty God, to the lasting account of this matter
 in the year 1582.” -Ed.
 124
 Talent: “power.” -Ed.
 125
 I Samuel 9 is the story of Saul’s consulting Samuel about his father’s asses. - E.A.
 126
 James 1:5 Si quis autem vestrum indiget sapientia, postulet a Deo, qui dat omnibus affluenter, et non
 improperat: et dabitur ei.: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men
 liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.” -Ed.
 127
 mediately: “through a mediator.” -Ed.
 128
 Mittas . . . ducant &c: “May you send your light and your truth, which may lead me . . .” -Ed.
 129
 Recte Sapere . . . quod volo: See above. -Ed.
 130
 Da verbum . . . fige &c: “Fix your word in my ear, and your wisdom in my heart, etc.” -Ed.
131
 This third seer was Saul. -E.A.
 132
 This seems to be a paraphrase of Psalm 34:7: “The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear
 him, and delivers them.”
 133
 De mirabili . . . Naturae: “Concerning the wonderful power of art and of nature” -Ed.
 134
 Numquid non est Deus in Israël, ut ad consulendum Beelzebub, deum Accaron. Reg. 4. cap. 1. -Δ. “Is
 it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Beelzebub, the god of Ekron?” 2
 Kings (called Reg 4, 4 Kings in the vulgate) - Ed.
 135
 Facilius . . . reputare: “It is without doubt incomparably easier to obtain anything that is considered
 useful for people from God, or from good spirits [than from evil spirits].” -Ed.
 136
 Mane: “in the morning.” -Ed.
 137
 AÑAËL.
 138
 Note, An illuding intruder, even at the first, putting him self, as an angel of light. Take hede allwayes
 of undue securitie.
 139
 There appered a great number of dead mens skulls, likewise.
 140
 In nomine . . . tu es: “In the name of Jesus Christ, who are you?” This is a standard first question for
 interrogating spirits. “Let him first require his name, and if he be called by any other name” (pseudo
?) Agrippa’s Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy, ed. Robert Turner (London: Askin Publishers,
 1978), p. 67. -Ed.
 141
 “potestas . . . est: “All power is placed in me.” -Ed.
 142
 Quae?: “Which?” -Ed.
 143
 Bona et mala: “good and bad.” -Ed.
144
 De Thesauro abscondita: “regarding hidden treasure.” -Ed.
 145
 Ne perturbes . . . Nugae: “Don’t bother, for these are trifles.” -Ed.
 146
 Ubi . . . tua?: “By whom is your power?” -Ed.
 147
 Cur . . . mea?: “Why do you ask about my power?” -Ed.
 148
 Cur . . . placet: “Why? It means you haven’t satisfied me.” - Ed.
 149
 An bonus . . . speculo?: “Is there any good angel assigned to this speculum/mirror?” - Ed.
 150
 Etiam: “Yes, certainly.” -Ed.
 151
 Quis? “Who?” -Ed.
 152
 Bonus . . . mentio: “Isn’t this the good angel mentioned in scripture?” [i.e. Michael]-Ed.
 153
 Maxime: “Absolutely.” -Ed.
 154
 Fieri . . . agam?: “May I not see and deal with him?” -Ed.
 155
 Ita: “yes” -Ed.
 156
 Quid . . . velis: “What do you wish to show by this?” -Ed.
 157
 Alterius . . . est: “It is the character of another angel.” -Ed.
 158
 Cur . . . ostendis?: “Why do you show this now, and on this occasion?” -Ed.
 159
Causam ob magnam: “For a great reason.” -Ed.
 160
 In margin: “Prayer / Fasting.” -Ed.
 161
 Gloria . . . saeculorum: “Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, as it was in the
 beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end.” -Ed.
 162
 Prepositus orbis veneris: “Governor of the planet Venus.” -Ed.
 163
 This book only survives in fragments as Cotton MS. Vitellius. C. VII, art. 3. in the British Library. 
Ed.
 164
 In nomine Jesu Christi: “In the name of Jesus Christ.” -Ed
 165
 Pseudonym for Edward Kelley. -Ed.
 166
 Note: he had two dayes before made the like demaunde and request unto me: but he went away
 unsatisfiyed for his comming was to entrap me, yf I had had any dealing with wicked spirits as he
 confessed often tymes after: and that he was set on, &c.
 167
 Aliqui Angeli boni: “some good angels.” -Ed.
 168
 Michael . . . nostris: “Michael is the foremost in our works.” -Ed.
 169
 Soyga, Soiga = agyos. -E.A. Agios is Greek for holy. Two copies of this book have been identified.
 One is Bodleian Ms. 908, and the other is British Library Sloane manuscript 8. See the introduction
 for more detail. -Ed.
 170
 Liber . . . bonos: “That book was revealed to Adam in Paradise by the good angels of God.” -Ed.
 171
 solus . . . interpretator: “Michael alone is the interpretor of that book.” -Ed.
 172
 Dee lived to be 81. -Ed.
 173
Praesentias . . . invocandi: “Request and invoke our appearance with sincerity and humility. And
 Anchor, Anachor, and Anilos are not to be called into this stone.” -Ed.
 174
 Haec . . . non vi: “These things mostly involve Michael. Michael is the angel who illuminates your
 path. And these things are revealed in virtue and truth, not by force.” -Ed.
 175
 Omnis . . . nobis: “Every hour is our hour.” -Ed.
 176
 An illuding spirit straight way intruded him self, and this character: as may appere Libri Quinti
 Appendice where the character is described exactly.
 177
 In margin: This was not True Uriel as may appere Anno 1583: May 5. -Ed.
 178
 Sigillum . . . gestandum: “Engrave this sigil in gold, for protecting the body in all places, times, and
 occasions: and it is to be worn on the chest.” -Ed.
 179
 Soli . . . gloria: “All honor and glory to God alone.” -Ed.
 180
 Note: In this time there appered in the stone, a riche chayre: and after a little while, it was out of
 sight.
 181
 That is, Psalms 6, 32, 38, 51, 102, 130, and 143 (the Vulgate numbers them 6, 31, 37, 50, 101, 129,
 and 142). -Ed.
 182
 Sigillum Dei: “Sigil (or seal) of God.” -Ed.
 183
 In margin: Erronicè, contra ignorantiam meam. vide post. -Δ (Erroneously, to my ignorance. See
 below.) -Ed.
 184
 Note this point.
 185
 Two smaller seals are preserved in the British Museum. They measure 125mm in diameter, and are
 20mm thick. The holy table itself measured 36¼ inches by 35⅞ inches, was 31½ inches high. -Ed.
 186
Caue: quia angelus tenebrarum se intrusit hic ut libri Quinti appendice apparavit. -Δ. “Beware: an
 angel of darkness intruded itself here as is shown in the appendix to the fifth book.” In fronte: “in
 front”; iuxta pectus: “near the chest”; a sinistris: “on the left”; a dextris: “on the right.” -Ed.
 187
 Brimstone (sulfur) was commonly used in exorcisms. For the binding of Asmodeus by Raphael, see
 The Book of Tobit 3.17. -Ed.
 188
 Dee’s daughter Katherine was nine months old at the time. -Ed.
 189
 Note: So is it evident who went abowt to hinder the truth before in the character, and in the border of
 the Table, falsely cownterfeating &c as it also in the next action may appere.
 190
 Saul in danger of being carried away quick. -Δ. Quick: “alive.” -Ed.
 191
 George was a servant of Dee’s. Dee’s diary states that goodman Hilton requested lodging for his two
 sons in Dee’s house in 1579, and that Robert Hilton came to his service 4 October 1581. -Ed.
 192
 See Tobit 3.17 and 8.3.
 193
 Gloria . . . sicut: “Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, as . . . etc.” -Ed.
 194
 “Around 3 in the morning.” -Ed.
 195
 Hereby may appere that this wycked spirit foysted in the shew of the fals character and names before.
 196
 Presently: “at once.” -Ed.
 197
 Brave: “splendid.” - Ed.
 198
 Note: Lundrumguffa skourged spiritually.
 199
 Glystring: “brilliant.” -Ed.
 200
Lundrumguffa.
 201
 Gloria . . . saeculorum: “Glory, praise, honor, virtue, and sovereignty to the immortal, invisible, and
 almighty God, forever and ever.” -Ed.
 202
 Agrippa hath so, cap. 24, Lib. 3, Occult. Phil. -Δ. Cornelius Agrippa, De Occulta Philosophia, p.
 471. Here Agrippa lists the four princes of the angels as Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and Nariel (also
 known as Uriel). They rule over the four winds and the four parts of the world (East, West, North, and
 South respectively). -Ed.
 203
 Potius erat dicendum Michaël: Nam Gabriel est Praevalescentia Dei: et ita, fortitudo quidem, sed
 altioris gradus. -Δ. (“Rather Michael was indicated: For Gabriel is the Predominance of God: and
 therefore also the strength, but to another degree.” -Ed.)
 204
 Fortitudo . . . est: “The strength of God is always with you.” -Ed.
 205
 Angelus tuae professionis: “Angel of your profession.” -Ed.
 206
 Vide Agrippam de Triplici hõis custode. Lib.3: cap.22. -Δ. Cornelius Agrippa, De Occulta
 Philosophia, book 3, chap. 22, p. 465. Here Agrippa states that everyone is assigned three angelic
 keepers or preservers: one that is holy, another of the nativity, and another of the profession. -Ed.
 207
 Laudate . . . suis: “Praise the Lord for his works.” -Ed.
 208
 Vide Reuclini de Verbo Mirifico, de nomine NA.
 209
 Vide Reuclini Librum de Verbo Mirifico de nomine PELE.
 210
 The use of the ring.
 211
 De sigillo Emeth, vide Reuclinim Artem Cabalisticam, lib.3. et Agrippam lib. 3. cap.11. -Δ.
 “Concerning the seal Emeth, see Johann Reuchlin, On the Art of the Kabbalah, book 3.” Translated
 by Martin and Sarah Goodman, (Lincoln, NE: University of Nebraska Press, 1983), pp. 284, 287:
 “They assert that En Sof is alpha and omega, for he said: ‛I am the first and the last.’ They say too that
 the ‘Crown’ of the kingdom is the bottomless fount of all the ages and the Father of mercies, whose
mystery is that he seals up Essence through Truth. As our noble teacher Eliezer haKalir says: ‘Truth is
 his seal.’ This can be proved by arithmetical calculation. If we multiply Ehieh (meaning ‘essence’) by
 Ehieh we will get 441, which is the same as Emeth, the word for ‘true’ or ‘truth,’ and the same as
 Adonai Shalom, which means ‘Lord of Peace.’” Compare with Joseph Gikatilla (b. 1248), Gates of
 Light, translated by Avi Weinstein (San Francisco: Harper Collins Publishers, 1994), p. 222: “Thus
 the Sages said ‛EMeT is the seal of the Holy One, Blessed be He.’ . . . Therefore, upon His seal is
 written EMeT, to teach you that all the hosts of letters from the first aleph to the [but not including]
 mem [which is in the middle of the alphabet] look to bring favour . . .” See the introduction for a
 discussion of the seal Emeth. Note also that all three names, “NA,” “Emeth,” and “PELE” are found
 in Agrippa, De Occulta Philosophia, book 3, chapter 11, p. 434. -Ed.
 212
 Virtue, also “power.” -Ed.
 213
 Valete: “Farewell.” -Ed.
 214
 Soli . . . Gloria: “All honor, praise, and glory to God alone.” -Ed.
 215
 Invocate . . . eum: “Invoke the name of the Lord, and acknowledge him.” -Ed.
 216
 Psalm 67.1: Deus . . . nobis: “May God be gracious to us and bless us.” -Ed.
 217
 Of Salamian you may rede, in the call, Diei Dominicae in Elementis Magicis Petri de Abano, there
 called Salamia. -Δ. Elementis Magici: “Magical Elements,” by Peter de Abano, English translation
 published as Heptameron: or Magical Elements (London, 1655, reprint London: Askin Publishers,
 1978), p. 89. Diei Dominicae: “Sunday.”
 218
 Thretting: “threatening.” -Ed.
 219
 Raphaël.
 220
 De OCH vide in libello Arbatel in . -Δ. According to the Arbatel De Magia Veterum, Aphor. 17,
 pp. 17–31, Och is a spirit of Olympus who governs solar things. The other six Olympic spirits are
 Aratron (Saturn), Bethor (Jupiter), Phaleg (Mars), Hagith (Venus), Ophiel (Mercury), and Phul
 (Moon). -Ed.
 221
 See Agrippa, De Occulta Philosophia, book 3, chapter 34, p. 504. -Ed.
222
 Δ: Perchaunce he meaneth the cownsayle of Annael: before specifyed.
 223
 It is in Elementis Magicis Petri de Abano printed with Clauis Agrippae, which lay in my oratorie
 almost under my wyndow.
 224
 The top third of a page is missing here. This quote is supplied from HM, where it is attributed to
 Michael, that is, F.D., 15 March 1582. -Ed.
 225
 In margin, written lengthwise: God wilbe revenged uppon Saul: for he hath abused his names in his
 creatures He hath sinned agaynst kinde. His ponishment is great: and so I ende. -Ed.
 226
 See the apocryphal II Esdras 4.1, 4.36, 5.20, 10.28.
 227
 See the apocryphal Book of Tobit 3.17 and passim.
 228
 Mysteriorum Liber Primus, tooke ending here (as I conceive) after which followes Mysteriorum*
 Liber Secundus, but the begining thereof is utterly perished. *So it appeares to be by divers
 Quotations in the following Books. *So by the Citation 28 April 1582. -E.A.
 229
 The top quarter of a page is missing. In HM, Dee says: “Note that the whole Second boke is Nothing
 els but the Mysteries most Mervaylous of Sigillum Dei: otherwise called Sigillum Aemeth.” In 3677,
 E.A. makes the following comments: “I suppose here were some other Actions between the 21 of
 March and 28 of April 1582 which belonged to the 2nd booke, & are wanting. For in the beginning of
 the Action of 28 of Apr. Mich: taxeth (?) and threateneth Δ for his slacknes for his not preparing
 things appointed by him (which Δ excuseth with inability) but here is no . . . of such appointment . . .
 in Action of 21 of March. [In margin: 22 Mar Mr Talbot went to London to take his journey for the
 Bookes vide Ephemerides. If therefore there was any action between 22 Mar & 28 Apr it must be
 after Mr Talbots retorn, & when he retorned is not noted.] (The following line was crossed out. -Ed.):
 I suppose also that somewhat is wanting of the 3d Booke, for here is only the Actions of 2 daies, and
 28 & 29 of Ap: & the catch word of the last page is - Mi + decedite - but nothing followes.
 I also suppose there is something wanting of the 4th Booke, for the last Action is 4 May 1582 & at
 the beginning of which it appears that E.T. was unwilling to proceed as skryer any further, because
 Mich: willed him to Marry. & lis & bable be here (+) left offe. Beside the 4th (or rather 5) booke
 begins the 15 of Nov: 1582. & from the 4 of May to that tyme here is nothing extant. Yet that somwhat
 was done may be colledled from what is entred under the Title vizt: Post reconciliationem Kellianam,
 &c: implying that, here had been some falling out betw. Δ & him, & it may hence be presumed, Kelly
 had been implyed as Skryer sometyme before the said falling out.
+ / 4. May. Mr. Talbot went
 vide Ephem: so that by this it seemes Mr. Talbot went away from
 Mortlack so soone as his account of 4 of May was finished, & discected the imployment.” -E.A.
 230
 Benedictus qui venit in: “Blessed is he who comes in . . .” -Ed.
 231
 Benedictus . . . Domini: “Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.” This is part of the
 Sanctus prayer, which appears in the preface to the Latin mass. See also John 12:13. -Ed.
 232
 Michael - Fortitudo Dei.
 233
 My Oath or vow required for secresie.
 234
 To E.T. he spake.
 235
 Recte . . . Intelligere: “To perceive and understand properly.” -Ed.
 236
 The top quarter of a page is missing. -Ed.
 237
 In HM this section has the following heading (perhaps part of the missing text): “Now I will speak of
 Sigillum Aemeth, also known as Sigillum Dei.” The words in square brackets were supplied from
 HM. The quote is also dated 19 March. -Ed.
 238
 Semiel, this etymologie is as thowgh he wer the secretarie, for the Name of God.
 239
 Michael -CHM.
 240
 Semiel - fortè significat Nomen meum Deus. Ita quod Tabulae istae sunt Nomen Dei, vel Nomina
 Diuina. -Δ. Forte . . . Diuina: “Perhaps it signifies the name of my God, thus, because these tables are
 the name of God, or the Divine names.” -Ed.
 241
 Compare with Daniel 10:6. -Ed.
 242
 The very fashion of the T was thus: 
243
 “T” in the holy language is named Gisg; vide lib.5. post. et est ultima Alphabetilitera. -∆. Vide . . .
 litera: “See below in Book 5; it is the last letter of the alphabet.” -Ed.
 244
 HM reads “of God.” -Ed.
 245
 Deus . . . semper: ‟O God, God, our God, blessed are you, now and forever.” - Ed.
 246
 G: alr. Ged. lib.5. -∆. (“G: otherwise Ged. [See] Book 5.” -Ed.)
 247
 This ellipsis is Dee’s, indicating an omission. -Ed.
 248
 N, alr, Drux.
 249
 Multiplicatum . . . terra: “Manifold is your Name on the Earth.” -Ed.
 250
 Vidimus . . . Domine: “We have seen your glory, O Lord.” -Ed.
 251
 Gisg.
 252
 Illius . . . nobiscum: “May his Glory be with us.” -Ed.
 253
 Na.
 254
 Et est . . . Lucis: “And it is the number of blessed power. Behold the Angels of Light.” -Ed.
 255
 Et sum . . . videte: “And I am the end, and have no number. I am a number within a number, and every
 number is my number. Behold.” -Ed.
 256
 Drux.
 257
 Et est . . . cælis: “And he is life
 in heaven” -Ed.
258
 Et ego . . . viventibus: “And I live with the well-living.” -Ed.
 259
 Vivamus . . . Nomen: “We live, Alleluia. O Holy Name.” -Ed.
 260
 Tal.
 261
 Benedictus . . . Agni: “Blessed is the number of the Lamb.” -Ed.
 262
 Orate invicem: “Pray in turn.” -Ed.
 263
 Omnia . . . Deo: “Everything is given by God.” -Ed.
 264
 Med.
 265
 Et non . . . Deus: “And the end is not in him. Blessed are you O God.” -Ed.
 266
 Angeli . . . Halleluyah: “The angels will fall down at your name O Lord. You are the first O alleluia.”-Ed.
 267
 Un.
 268
 Et numerus . . . caeteris: “And your number lives in the rest.” -Ed.
 269
 Corrected thus after by Uriel to be 20.
 270
 Nomen . . . nobiscum: “The name of that is with us.” -Ed.
 271
 Drux.
 272
 Creasti . . . tuam: ‟O Lord, you have created your angels for your glory.” -Ed.
 273
Et te . . . Deus: “And God has made you first.” -Ed.
 274
 Un.
 275
 Et creata. . . tuo: “And they were created and perish in your name.” -Ed.
 276
 Note these 3 parts.
 277
 Surgit . . . Dei: “Innocence arises to the face of God.” -Ed.
 278
 Innocentium . . . tuis: “O Lord, you have seen the names and blood of the innocent on the earth, and
 you are just in your works.” Compare with Psalm 94:21. - Ed.
 279
 Na.
 280
 Numerus . . . rerum: “Your number is infinite, and it will be the end of things.” -Ed.
 281
 Non est . . . Terrae: “To him there is no number. Everyone perishes before God, and on the face of the
 earth.” -Ed.
 282
 O benedictum . . . illis: “Blessed is your name, O Lord. The number perished with those.” -Ed.
 283
 Med.
 284
 Lux . . . tuum: “Light abides in darkness. Your Name is full of glory.” -Ed.
 285
 Trinus sum: “I am threefold.” -Ed.
 286
 Benedictus . . . El: “May the name El be blessed.” -Ed.
 287
 Ur.
 288
Labia . . . Dominum: “My lips praise the Lord.” -Ed.
 289
 Scotcheon: escutcheon. -Ed.
 290
 Et hic est El: “And here is El.” -Ed.
 291
 Benedicta . . . tua: “May your age be blessed.” -Ed.
 292
 Natus . . . noster: “That Light is born. He/she/it is our Light.” -Ed.
 293
 Drux.
 294
 Numerus . . . benedictus: “Your number is blessed.” -Ed.
 295
 Numerus . . . aeternum: “Your number is with us: and yet until now we knew not his end. May you
 come with your number, O one forever.” -Ed.
 296
 Linguis . . . eum: “They recognized him by his tongues.” -Ed.
 297
 Benedictus . . . sic: “Blessed is he who is so and so.” -Ed.
 298
 Trencher: cutting board on which food is served. -Ed.
 299
 Ur.
 300
 Et es . . . tuis: “And you are true in your works.” -Ed.
 301
 Gaudete . . . Gaudete: “Rejoice ye, all his people, rejoice ye, all his people, from now on rejoice.” 
Ed.
 302
 Incipit virtus nostra: “Our power begins.” -Ed.
 303
Ged—G.
 304
 Note this to be the first that vanished away, going behynde Michael.
 305
 Recte . . . eius: “Live properly, O you his holy ones.” -Ed.
 306
 Don.
 307
 Hic est . . . meam: “This is the angel of my Church, who may teach him my path.” -Ed.
 308
 Na.
 309
 Coniunxit . . . illorum: “He joined the spirit with their souls.” -Ed.
 310
 Med, ged.
 311
 Numerus . . . numero: “Its number is without number.” -Ed.
 312
 Tempus . . . agnoscite: “It is time. Recognize your God.” -Ed.
 313
 Gisg.
 314
 Imago: I writ first: but, aunciently, and vulgarly both in writing and print, you shall finde ymago,
 thowgh not according to the Latine Tung. -Δ. Ymago . . . amara: “Your image (O death) is bitter.” -Ed.
 315
 Gon - cum puncto, y -Δ. (“With a point, to distinguish it from ‘i’.” -Ed.)
 316
 Iustus . . . noster: “Our God is just to the wicked.” -Ed.
 317
 Opera . . . mea: “The labor of the faithful is my delight.” -Ed.
 318
 Hic est Deus noster: “Here is our God.” -Ed.
319
 Ecce . . . mea: “Behold, sin rules in my house.” -Ed.
 320
 Graph.
 321
 Bestia . . . aeternum: “The beast devoured my people, but he will perish forever.” -Ed.
 322
 Pa.
 323
 Iniquitas . . . Inquis: “Iniquity fills my temple, and the holy live with the unjust.” -Ed.
 324
 I think it to be superfluous.
 325
 Iniqua . . . suis: “The earth is unjust in its malice.” -Ed.
 326
 Angeli . . . sanctis: “His angels have served the saints.” -Ed.
 327
 Uriel corrected it after, to be under.
 328
 Regnabit . . . tempore: “Wickedness will rule for a time.” -Ed.
 329
 Nulla . . . terram: “No power rules upon the earth.” -Ed.
 330
 Non est . . . caelis: “His number is not in heaven.” -Ed.
 331
 Antiquus . . . Innocentes: “The ancient serpent has raised up his head, devouring the innocent.” -Ed.
 332
 Regnum . . . Contradicet?: “My Kingdom. Who resists it?” -Ed.
 333
 Non quod . . . Mysterium: “It is not because he is A, but because he resists A. Neither his portion nor
 his number are discovered in heaven. Therefore he has the number of the earth, which is a mystery.” 
Ed.
334
 Mysterium nobis reuelandum. -Δ. (“A mystery to be revealed to us.”) Vobis . . . reuelandum: “This
 mystery is to be revealed to you afterward.” -Ed.
 335
 Perturbatur . . . sua: “The earth is thrown into confusion by his/her wickedness.” -Ed.
 336
 My skryer had omitted to tell me this, or els, it was not told and showed, but Uriel did after supply it
 by the skryer: The first letter of Perturbatur, doth not make shew, of the letter following as other
 before did.
 337
 Surgite . . . aeternum: “Arise, O servants of God. Arise (I say) and fight. The Name of God is
 eternal.” -Ed.
 338
 Omnis . . . illius: “All the Earth will tremble at the sound of that trumpet.” -Ed.
 339
 Serua . . . Israel: “O God, save your people; O God, save your people Israel; O God, save (I say)
 your people Israel.” -Ed.
 340
 Fam.
 341
 Est numerus in numero: “He is the number in the number.” -Ed.
 342
 Nunc . . . tribulationis: “Now are the days of troubles.” -Ed.
 343
 Hic predictus: “This is the number that was foretold.” -Ed.
 344
 Audite . . . est: “Listen: it is finished.” -Ed.
 345
 Uriel also did correct this place with deliuering this in the place of the other description before.
 346
 Angele . . . tuam: “O angel, prepare your trumpet.” -Ed.
 347
 Venite Tempus: “The time comes.” -Ed.
348
 Hij duo . . . adhuc: “These two were still hidden.” - Ed.
 349
 Vale . . . suum: “Farewell. Nature has its own limit.” -Ed.
 350
 Hij duo . . . adhuc: “These two were still hidden.” - Ed.
 351
 Have wanted: “were missed.” -Ed.
 352
 Veritas . . . sunt: “Truth is in God alone, and all these things are true.” -Ed.
 353
 The descryer, or the skryer omitted to tell.
 354
 Hij duo . . . adhuc: “These two were still hidden.” - Ed.
 355
 Consummatum est: “It is finished.” -Ed.
 356
 Iste . . . suus: “This is his number.” -Ed.
 357
 Omnia unum est: “Everything is one.” -Ed.
 358
 Semieil.
 359
 Laudate . . . eius: “Praise the Lord in his sanctuary” (Psalm 150). -Ed.
 360
 The declaration of the Numbers.
 361
 Make experience: “get started.” -Ed.
 362
 Note these doings to be accownted Calls.
 363
Saluete: “Greetings.” -Ed.
 364
 Note: 7 names, proceding from 3 generall places of the Circumference or 3 generall letters, being but
 one letter and that, A.
 365
 Prove: “determine the truth.” -Ed.
 366
 Vide Galatinum, lib. 3. cap. 11. -Δ. This is Petrus Galatinus, a 15th century Kabbalist. -Ed.
 367
 Id est . . . Trinitate: “That is, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, Trinity in unity and
 unity in Trinity.” - Ed.
 368
 Pater . . . Deus: “God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, nevertheless not three gods but
 one God.” -Ed.
 369
 Sicut . . . unus: “As the rational mind and flesh of a person are one, so too are God and man one
 Messiah.” -Ed.
 370
 42, are here in potentia, but, non Acta.
 371
 The vertu of this Circle.
 372
 ADAMS TREATISE, A: He meaneth my Booke that I call Soyga.
 373
 Primus . . . Dixi: “First and newest, one alone God lives now and ever: He is and he will be, and
 here are his Divine Names. I have spoken.” -Ed.
 374
 Benedicamus Dominum: “Let us bless the Lord.” -Ed.
 375
 Δ: I had made, and written, and corrected certayn prayers to them.
 376
 Fiat voluntas Dei: “Let it be as God wills.” -Ed.
 377
Straight way: “immediately.” -Ed.
 378
 Baskets.
 379
 Ecce . . . Israel: “Behold, it is a mystery. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel” (Psalm 7:18). -Ed.
 380
 Sapientiam: “wisdom.” -Ed.
 381
 Omnia unum est: “All is one.” -Ed.
 382
 Here there is a marginal flourish in the manuscript, with a line drawn to the word “heven.” -Ed.
 383
 Seal this: “confirm this.” -Ed.
 384
 Note of the 7 Baskets.
 385
 Dixit . . . est: “He spoke and it was so.” -Ed.
 386
 Et viuis . . . est: “And you live with him, and your kingdom is with those.” -Ed.
 387
 Dedit . . . Orate: “He gave power to them in heaven. His power is great. Pray.” - Ed.
 388
 Magnum . . . Orate: “Mighty is GOD in his angels, and great is their power in heaven. Pray.” -Ed.
 389
 Nuncius . . . coelis. Orate: “Your messenger is great in heaven. Pray.” Nuncius (Nuntius) is commonly
 used as a title for Gabriel in medieval Latin. -Ed.
 390
 Michael is the sixth name. vide post. -Δ. Vide post: “see below.” -Ed.
 391
 Dedit . . . coeli: “He gave power to his angels in the splendor of heaven.” -Ed.
 392
 Et coniunxit . . . unum: “And God joined them into one.” -Ed.
393
 My contynual and anncient prayer.
 394
 Note these manifold and great Mysteries and mark these 7 diuerse Crosses with these 7 letters.
 395
 Note this Bond.
 396
 He is twice three and one.
 397
 I haue hither to forgotton to ax where Uriel his name may appere.
 398
 48 letters are here: and One is noted by a Cross: which maketh the 49th. Of this Cross and Angels
 vide Anno 1584, Junij 25. - Δ. See TFR, p. 173. -Ed.
 399
 The 7 angels, Zaphiel, Zadkiel, Camael, Raphael, Haniel, Michael, and Gabriel, appear in Cornelius
 Agrippa, De Occulta Philosophia, book 2, chap. 10, p. 282, as the “seven angels which stand in the
 presence of God.” -Ed.
 400
 72 vertues multiplyed by 48: giue 3456.
 401
 This I supply was spoken by Michael though the noting by whom is omitted in the original. -Δ.
 402
 Shaddowed: “shaded.” -Ed.
 403
 ¶ Of this sentence cam no frute nor furder confirmation, therefore, consider.
 404
 The third Lord Monteagle, William Stanley, died in 1581, and it seems likely that Dee was trying to
 purchase some of his books at his estate sale. -Ed.
 405
 Note this trumpeter.
 406
 We were commaunded Not to ax of the apparayle of Michael.
 407
Et haec est . . . fac officium Phanael: “And this is his glory, which will not be moved by the wicked.
 Mi: What do you want? Δ: Besides the will of God, the wisdom that is necessary for us. Mi: The
 wisdom of the world is nothing, but will perish in eternity. May the LORD’S eternity come, from
 every part of the world. Come, come if GOD ADONAY wishes. Perform the office, O Phanael.” -Ed.
 408
 Lustily: “vigorously.” -Ed.
 409
 Multiplex . . . Noster: “Manifold is our God.” -Ed.
 410
 7 Thrones, 7 Trumpets, 7 Angels.
 411
 Sic est Deus noster: “So is our God.” -Ed.
 412
 Unus . . . noster: “One is our God, O God, our God.” -Ed.
 413
 Muserion est: “It is a mystery.” The reason Dee used this pseudo-Greek is unclear. -Ed.
 414
 Note the intrusion of Error by the Wicked powres of Sathan.
 415
 Perijt Malus cum malis: “A wicked one perishes with the wicked.” -Ed.
 416
 Tanta . . . Sathan: “So great is your boldness, O Satan” -Ed.
 417
 Sed . . . vivit: “But our God lives.” -Ed.
 418
 Non sum: I understand the refusall of those two intruded pillers. -Δ. Non sum: “I am not.” -Ed.
 419
 Sum: “I am.” -Ed.
 420
 Orate: “Pray.” -Ed.
 421
 Cumfet, comfit: “candy.” -Ed.
 422
Ista . . . secretorum: “These are the secrets of secrets.” -Ed.
 423
 Invocate . . . possumus: “Call upon his name, or we are able to do nothing” -Ed.
 424
 Sic . . . Sic: “Yes, O Lord, Yes, Yes.” -Ed.
 425
 Laudate . . . aeternum: “Praise the name of the Lord who lives forever.” -Ed.
 426
 Ipse: “exactly.” -Ed.
 427
 Et Misericordia tua Domine magna est: “And your mercy, O Lord, is great.” -Ed.
 428
 Dominus . . . suo: “The Lord is stationed in his number.” -Ed.
 429
 Vivo . . . illorum: “I live as a lion in their midst.” -Ed.
 430
 Et tua ... ubique: “And great is your power everywhere.” -Ed.
 431
 Hoc . . . praece: “This is not without prayer.” -Ed
 432
 Serpens . . . serpentem: “I am a serpent, and I devoured the serpent.” -Ed.
 433
 Et bonis . . . Domine: “You are a serpent to both the good and the evil, O Lord.” -Ed.
 434
 Numerus . . . cognitus: “His number was discovered by no one.” -Ed.
 435
 Ignis sum penetrabilis: “I am a piercing fire.” -Ed.
 436
 Et sit . . . Deus: “And may it/he be with us, O God.” -Ed.
 437
 There is “V” omitted by our neglect.
 438
Note these innumerable Angels.
 439
 Sic . . . noster: “Yes, yes, yes our God.” -Ed.
 440
 Finis. Gaudium . . . Deus: “The end. Joy and Light is our God.” -Ed.
 441
 Consummatum est: “It is finished.” -Ed.
 442
 Unus . . . eius: “ONE ONE ONE. All flesh fears his voice.” -Ed.
 443
 Adeste . . . Venite: “Be present O Daughters of goodness. Behold, your God is present. Come.” -Ed.
 444
 Filiae Bonitatis, or Filiolae lucis: vide pagina sequente. -Δ. (“Regarding the Daughters of goodness,
 or little Daughters of light: see the following page.” -Ed.)
 445
 Scribe quae vides: “Write what you see.” -Ed.
 446
 Nos . . . multa: “We are capable of much in Heaven.” -Ed.
 447
 Adeste, Filiolae Lucis: “Come, O Little Daughters of Light.” -Ed.
 448
 Michael: one of them that are cownted to stand before the face of God. -Δ. Adsumus . . . stas: “We are
 present, O you who stands before the face of God.” -Ed.
 449
 Hijs nostris benefacite: “Favor these ones of ours.” -Ed.
 450
 Factum erit: “It will be.” -Ed.
 451
 Valete: “Farewell.” -Ed.
 452
 Et dixit . . . exaltum est: “And the Lord spoke, come O Son of Light. Come to my tent. Come (I say),
 for my name is exalted.” -Ed.
 453
HM reads, “pendant behinde with a wreth down to the grownd.” -Ed.
 454
 Yern: iron. -Ed.
 455
 Traditionally, these metals correspond to the Sun, Moon, Venus, Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, and Saturn,
 respectively. -Ed.
 456
 Δ: perhaps here wanteth “non.”
 457
 Quanmvis . . . sunt: “Although they may (not?) be begotten at one time, yet they are one.” -Ed.
 458
 Facite . . . erit: “Make (items) according to these (examples) when the time comes.” -Ed.
 459
 Volumus: “We wish.” Perhaps a mistake for “volamus” (we fly). -Ed.
 460
 Magna . . . Halleluyah: “Great is God’s glory among you, and ever shall be. Halleluyah.” -Ed.
 461
 Valete: “Farewell.” -Ed.
 462
 Dixit . . . estis: “God said, be mindful of my name, but you have been forgetful.” -Ed.
 463
 Forte “quae.” -Δ. (Perhaps “quae” -Ed.)
 464
 Note these three descents.
 465
 Venite, . . . Adsumus: “Come, come, come. Come, O Daughters of the Daughters of Light. Come now
 and forever, you who will have daughters. God said, I created my angels, who will destroy the
 daughters of the earth. We are present.” -Ed.
 466
 Vbi fuistis vos: “Where were you?” -Ed.
 467
 In terris . . . glorificatis: “On the earth with the saints, and in heaven with the glorified.” -Ed.
 468
Non adhuc . . . hoc: “This mystery is not yet to be known.” -Ed.
 469
 Quid . . . Illorum: “What will you do with these? (They answered,) We shall be with them in all their
 works.” -Ed.
 470
 Valete: “Farewell” (lit. “be well”). -Ed.
 471
 Valeas . . . Cælis: “May you be well, and you are great O you in heaven.” -Ed.
 472
 Orate: “pray.” -Ed.
 473
 Et miset . . . Adsumus: “And he has sent the sons of the sons, instructing Israel. The Lord spoke, come
 to my voice. We are present.” -Ed.
 474
 Quid factum . . . sumus: “What is done among the sons of men? They live badly (said they) and we do
 not have a place with them, so great is their iniquity. Woe to the world because of temptations to sin,
 or to those who cause temptations. Woe to those whom we are not with.” -Ed. Compare with Matthew
 18:7: Vae mundo a scandalis. Necesse est enim ut veniant scandala: verumtamem vae homini illi, per
 quem scandalum venit: “Woe to the world for temptations to sin! For it is necessary that temptations
 come, but woe to the man by whom the temptation comes!”
 475
 Nec nomine . . . Mundus: “The world does not fear my name.” -Ed.
 476
 Nullus . . . meam: “Nobody will see my face.” -Ed.
 477
 Non est . . . dicam: “There is no maiden on the earth with whom I will speak.” -Ed.
 478
 Tanta est . . . ab illo: “So great is the weakness of holiness of the day. The benefactors depart from
 him.” -Ed.
 479
 Opera . . . me: “Their handiwork is vain. Whereupon no one will see me.” -Ed.
 480
 In the manuscript the “e” and “l” are overwritten. -Ed.
 481
Hagonel. Vide de hoc Hagonel, lib. 4. -Δ (“Regarding this Hagonel, see Book 4.”) Ecce: “behold”;
 Qui adhuc . . . viuo: “I live with those who are still holy.” -Ed.
 482
 Hij . . . Doctrina: “They have imitated my teaching. The teaching of all things are placed in me.” -Ed.
 483
 Imitati sunt: “They have imitated.” The proper perfect active form of imitor is Imitati sunt, not
 imitaverunt. -Ed.
 484
 Non curat numerum Lupus: “The wolf does not administer the number.” -Ed.
 485
 Ne minimam . . . Valete: “It detracts very little virtue from virtue. Be with them. Be (I say with them).
 Be (I say) with me. Farewell.” -Ed.
 486
 HM adds, “to Michael (who had called both the first & these).” -Ed.
 487
 Dictum est hoc tempore: “It was said at this time.” -Ed.
 488
 Urielis officium. -Δ (“Uriel’s office.” -Ed.)
 489
 Omnis . . . Halleluyah: “All knowledge is from the Lord. Mi: And his name is Halleluyah.” -Ed.
 490
 Note this list is made perfecter by the next side following. -Δ. The list is composed of the Hebrew
 names for the seven planets with the divine name “El” added to indicate an angel: Sabathiel (Saturn),
 Zedekieil (Jupiter), Madimiel (Mars), Semeliel (The Sun), Nogahel (Venus), Corabiel (Mercury),
 Levanael (The Moon). The numbers 21/8 represent “el”; 26, 8, and 30 represent “1.” -Ed.
 491
 Beatus est . . . conseruat: “Blessed is he who keeps his own names secret.” -Ed.
 492
 In the manuscript, “us” is heavily underscored. -Ed.
 493
 Note these two orders of Angels: and Note Uriel doth name him self one of the standers before the
 face of God.
 494
 Sanctus . . . noster: “Holy, holy, holy, is he, our God.” -Ed.
495
 Note well this Rule of Arte.
 496
 Vox Domini . . . Halleluyah: “The voice of the Lord in strength. The voice of the Lord in grace. The
 voice of the Lord reveals the secret. In his temple may we praise his name EL. Hallelluyah.” -Ed.
 497
 Note this manner of Center accownted.
 498
 Note of Numbers with priks signifying letters.
 499
 1 the first dowghter.
 500
 Nomen . . . aeternum: “The Name of the Lord lives forever.” -Ed.
 501
 Viuit in caelis: “He lives in heaven.” -Ed.
 502
 Deus noster: “Our God.” -Ed.
 503
 Dux noster: “Our Commander.” -Ed.
 504
 Hic est: “This is.” -Ed.
 505
 Lux in aeternum: “Light forever.” -Ed.
 506
 Finis est: “He/it is the end.” -Ed.
 507
 Vera est haec tabula: “This table is true.” -Ed.
 508
 Vera est . . . iam: “This table is true, known in part by us, but unknown in all parts. See below.” -Ed.
 509
 Note these other purposes.
 510
Virtus Vobiscum est: “Virtue is with you. Pray.” -Ed.
 511
 Angeli . . . illorum: “The angels of light of our God. And he set his angels in their midst.” -Ed.
 512
 This name Corabiel you may see in Elementis Magicis Petri de Abani, in the Considerations Diei 
(Monday). - Δ.
 513
 Videt . . . est: “God saw his own work to be good, and he ceased from his work. It was so.” -Ed.
 514
 Note these two order of Angels.
 515
 Dixi: “I have spoken.” -Ed.
 516
 Sit Nomen . . . Amen: “May the Name of the Lord be blessed, from this time and for all time, forever
 and ever. Amen.” -Ed.
 517
 Sigillum . . . hebraice: “The Seal of God Aemeth (or Emeth), containing the names of God in
 Hebrew.” -Ed.
 518
 Ashmole has added “Liber: 3us / Liber: 4us” at the bottom of the page. Dee has drawn the frame
 around the title to look like a scroll. -Ed.
 519
 In HM Dee notes: “Almost all the Third boke, is of the 7 Ensignes of Creation.” -Ed.
 520
 Union of us two.
 521
 Habilitie: “ability.” -Ed.
 522
 The lamin not simpli . . . spoken: for No such Lamyn was to be made. -Δ.
 523
 Venito Ese: “Come, O Ese.” -Ed.
 524
Laudate . . . Orate: “Praise the Lord in Heaven. Pray.” -Ed.
 525
 Remember, Ese and lana; ar the thirdth and fowrth of the Septem Filiæ Bonitatis, sup. lib°. 2°. They
 are thus in order there: El, Me, Ese, lana, Akele, Azdobn, Stimcul. -Δ. Septem Filiae Bonitatis . . . 2°:
 “Seven daughters of goodness, in book 2 above.” -Ed.
 526
 Adesdum Ese . . . vestris: “Come, Ese. Come, lana. He gives proof in your tables.” -Ed.
 527
 Lightened: “glowed.” -Ed.
 528
 Creatio. -Δ “I created.” -Ed.
 529
 Ex hijs . . . illorum: “From these they were created (I created), and these are their names.” -Ed.
 530
 Numerus Primus: “The first number.” -Ed.
 531
 Δ Of these seven tables, Characters, or scotcheons Consider the words spoken in the fifth boke, Anno
 1583, Aprill 28, How they are proper to every King and prince in theyr order. They are Instruments of
 Conciliation. Volumine 5°: wher my Character is fashioned. -Δ. The words “Numerus Primus” appear
 to be in Ashmole’s handwriting. -Ed.
 532
 In the manuscript, Dee has drawn a line between this word and “very blak” above. -Ed.
 533
 Finis Tenebrarum: Halleluyah: “The end of darkness: Halleluyah.” -Ed.
 534
 Initium . . . Halleluyah: “And it is a good beginning in his name. Halleluyah.” -Ed.
 535
 Filiae filiarum Ese sup. lib. 2. -Δ. Venite filiae filiarum ESE: “Come, O daughters of the daughters
 ESE.” -Ed.
 536
 Somewhat wanteth.
 537
 Vnus: “One.” -Ed.
 538
Dies primus: “The first day.” -Ed.
 539
 Ubi est Tabula?: “Where is the table?” -Ed.
 540
 Est, est, est: “It is, it is, it is.” -Ed.
 541
 This is the end of folio 32 of the manuscript. The 4 diagrams are inserted at this point, the first two on
 folio 33 recto, the other two on folio 33 verso. -Ed.
 542
 O honor . . . eris: “O honor, praise, and glory to you who are and will be.” -Ed.
 543
 Unus est . . . Origo: “He is one, he is three; he is in each corner. Everything will be understood. He
 was, is, and will be to you. The end and the beginning.” -Ed.
 544
 forte fui.—Δ. (Perhaps “was.”) Fui . . . sum: “I was, I am that which I am (was?) not.” -Ed.
 545
 Lux . . . est: “The light was not, but now it is.” -Ed.
 546
 In the margin is a line pointing to the third table. - Ed.
 547
 Ecce signum Incomprehensibilitatis: “Behold the sign that cannot be grasped.” -Ed
 548
 Est, est, est: “He/it is, is, is.” -Ed.
 549
 Fiat: “Let it be.” -Ed.
 550
 In the margin, is a line pointing to the fourth table. - Ed.
 551
 Scribe. Veritas est: “Write. It is true.” -Ed
 552
 Man, Woman.
 553
Venito vasedq: “Come, O vasedq.” -Ed.
 554
 Vita . . . manu: “The life of these (is) from my hands.” -Ed.
 555
 O Lux Deus noster: “O Light, our God.” -Ed.
 556
 Note this stepping before. -Δ. In the manuscript there is also a line connecting “stepping” and
 “forestept.” -Ed.
 557
 Lumina . . . tuae: “These are the lights of your knowledge.” -Ed.
 558
 Fere . . . numerus: “Almost no one trusts this number.” -Ed.
 559
 The sterrs, Sonne and Mone Created.
 560
 Ad usum . . . sunt: “They are multiplied for your use.” -Ed.
 561
 Omnia gaudent fine: “All rejoice in the end.” -Ed.
 562
 Opus est: “It is the work.” -Ed.
 563
 Obumbrabit . . . luce: “He will overshadow your footsteps with the light of truth.” -Ed.
 564
 Gloria Patri et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto, Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in saecula
 saeculorum. Amen: “Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, as it was in the
 beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.” In British Library manuscript Harley
 6482, A Treatise on Angel Magic, the seven ensigns are attributed to the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars,
 the Sun, Venus, and Mercury, respectively. -Ed.
 565
 I am not sure if it wer Mi. or Ur, that called for them.
 566
 Et posuit . . . filiae: “And he sets those in his service. What do you desire? Δ: Wisdom and
 knowledge needed to serve God for his glory. Mi: Wisdom is from God; knowledge is to a creature
 and from creatures. Ur: Come, O daughters.” -Ed.
567
 E.T. his promise.
 568
 Practise. The lower world.
 569
 Venite filiae: “Come, O daughters.” -Ed.
 570
 I marvayle that the earth and waters are here ascribed to one.
 571
 Non potestis ... ratione: “You are not able to see this without calculation.” -Ed.
 572
 This I entersert now; thowgh it wer not at the first Noting.
 573
 Aqua: “Water.” -Ed.
 574
 Animal quadrupes . . . colorum: “A four-footed animal of all colors alternating.” -Ed.
 575
 Terra: “Earth.” -Ed.
 576
 Aer: “Air.” -Ed.
 577
 Ignis: “Fire.” -Ed.
 578
 Decedite . . . misit: “Depart in his name who has sent you here.” -Ed.
 579
 We two to-gither.
 580
 Perseth: “pierces.” -Ed.
 581
 Vide ipam Tabulam horam 49 nom. Collectam, pagina sequente. -Δ. (“See the table itself, of 49 names
 collected, on the following page.” -Ed.)
 582
49.
 583
 He ment to E.T.
 584
 Deo . . . Amen: “To God all good, all honor, praise, and glory, forever and ever. Amen.” -Ed.
 585
 Hora noctis 11½ a circiter: “around 11:30 at night.” -Ed.
 586
 Tabula . . . continens: “Collected table of the 49 consecutive names of the good angels (per Dee).” 
Ed.
 587
 Coordinatio . . . disposita: “Sequence of the 49 angels, arranged thus by John Dee.” Iste est caeteris:
 “and so on.” -Ed.
 588
 Plightes: “pleats.” -Ed.
 589
 Uriel, his manner of apparition.
 590
 A description of the glorious man.
 591
 Many cullours in all his garments are shewed in sequentibus thus:
 592
 Sic, Sic, Sic, Deus noster: “Yes, yes, yes, our God.” -Ed.
 593
 Multiplicabit . . . sua: “He will multiply all things by his blessing.” -Ed.
 594
 595
 The yoking or cuppling of the two byrds.
 596
 E.T. sayd the Voyce to be like Michael his voyce.
 597
Progressum . . . gloriam: “Progress and increase in virtue and truth to God’s honor and glory.” -Ed.
 598
 Fortè: “your.” -Ed.
 599
 Seely: “looking.” -Ed.
 600
 Quick: “alive.” -Ed.
 601
 Liking: “appearance.” -Ed.
 602
 A palmer was a traveler who carried a palm branch as a token of having made a pilgrimage to the
 Holy Land. -Ed.
 603
 (Videlicet) in Deo: “(namely) in God.” -Ed.
 604
 Benedictus . . . eius: “Blessed is God in his gifts, and holy in all his works.” -Ed.
 605
 Betwixt the end of the 3rd book, whose last action was May 4, 1582, & the beginning of this 4th book
 whose first action was on Nov. 15, 1582, is a great chasme of time. Occasioned perchance by some
 falling out with E. Kelly which is implied in this mention of Reconciliatio Kelliana. This is the first
 time that Edward Kelly appears to bee the seer, at lest under that name, there beeing no account,
 neither in the printed nor Mss. books how hee came to Dee. Queue: If Edw. Kelly was not the same
 with Ed. Talbot this latter beeing his assumed name, perchance after he was in orders. For Weever in
 his Funeral Monuments speaking of Ed. Kelley the Necromancer, sayes hee also went by the name of
 Ed Talbot. -E.A. Dee’s diary fills in some details of this period: “May 4th, Mr. Talbot went. May 23,
 Robert Gardener declared unto me hora 4½ a certeyn great philosophicall secret, as he had termed it,
 of a spirituall creatuer, and was this day willed to come to me and declare it, which was solemnly
 done, and with common prayer. July 13th, Mr. Talbot cam abowt 3 of the clok afternone, with whom I
 had some wordes of unkendnes: we parted frendely: he sayd that the Lord Morley had the Lord
 Mountegle his bokes. He promised me some of Doctor Myniver’s bokes.” James Halliwell, ed., The
 Private Diary of Dr. John Dee (New York: AMS Press, 1968), pp. 15–16. -Ed.
 606
 Quartus . . . dimittimus: “Fourth Book of the Mysteries. November 15, 1582. After Kelley’s
 reconciliation. O God, have mercy on us, forgive us as we forgive.” Compare with Matthew 6:12.
 Ashmole has written “Liber 5us” on the bottom of the page. -Ed.
 607
In HM, this section is titled, “Some Notice of peculier formes, and attire, wherein, the Kings, Princis
 and Ministers Heptarchicall appeared, and of some their Actions, and gesture at their apperance.
 &c.” The first leaf has been lost, but HM and CHM record the following actions of that day (order
 uncertain): In the first leafe were the offices of the two Kings Blumaza & Bobogel recited, as
 appeares by the Note at the bottome of the 2d page: & also 5 May 1583 & perhaps this first leafe was
 lost before he drew up his Booke of De Bonorum Angelorum invitationibus because I find a Blank
 where Blumaza is placed. -E.A. De Bonorum Angelorum: “Concerning the invitation of good angels.”-Ed.
 608
 Ultima . . . erit: “This age of yours is the last age, which shall be revealed to you.” -Ed.
 609
 Est in mundo, et incipiet cum illo alter Mundus: “It (or he) is in the world, and another World will
 commence with that one.” -Ed.
 610
 This king onely, is the ordrer, or disposer, of all the doctrine, which I terme Heptarchicall, as first, by
 calling the 7 Princis and after that, the 7 kings: and by giving instructions for use and Practise of the
 whole doctrine Heptarchicall for the first purpose, and frute therof to be enioyed by me: of two other
 there was onely Mention made. -Δ (HM).
 611
 Note. For, of Hagonel we never had any thing before. -Δ.
 612
 To him ward: “toward him.” -Ed.
 613
 Regnat . . . Operis: “Your power rules in the sons. Behold, the sign of The Work.” Note the crown
 symbol drawn above the “H” (for “homo” or man) denotes royalty. Dee uses the crown symbol in his
 diary to signify the queen. -Ed.
 614
 Carmara, otherwise Baligon. Vide . . .
 615
 Adhuc . . . non est: “There is two to come, there is no more” (in John Dee’s words, see below). -Ed.
 616
 Prince HAGONEL. Note. All the Princis, seemed to be men, and to haue red Robes, but this Prince,
 his Robe was shorter then the others. All the Princis, had Cerclets, of Gold on theyr heds: not crowns
 not coronets. -Δ (HM).
 617
 HM reads “light” in three places. -Ed.
618
 Filij & Filij Filiorum, supra libro 2°.-Δ. “See above in book 2 on the Sons and the Sons of the Sons.”-Ed.
 619
 Δ: generally.
 620
 Δ: particular, or my government lasteth yet.
 621
 Kings of the erth &c.
 622
 HM reads, “This Prince held in the palme of his right hand, as yf it had byn a rownd ring, with a prick
 in the mydst: hanging allso over his myddle fingers, which he affirmed to be his seale: and sayd the
 name of it, to be Barees.” -Ed.
 623
 All people of the erth etc.
 624
 Counterpoised: “balanced.” -Ed.
 625
 Cheare = cheer: “disposition.” -Ed.
 626
 Vera: “true.” -Ed.
 627
 Impura: “filth.” -Ed.
 628
 Verus . . . Impuris: “The true with the true, and the filthy with the filthy.” -Ed.
 629
 Philosophers.
 630
 Geometry.
 631
 Δ He hath recyted the offices of two Kings, as of Blumaza and Bobogel. And then he sayeth, Gather
 by these few spriggs &c: Which Bobogel is over the Nobility and Wisdome, of Metalls, & all Nature.-Δ. Lucem: “Light”; Mundi tenebras: “the darkness of the world.” -Ed.
632
 Lucem:“light.” -Ed.
 633
 The foreman with the short [coat].
 634
 Primus et quartus: “The First and the Fourth.” -Ed.
 635
 The.
 636
 Carmara his Minister: forte Prince Hagonel.
 637
 Weapons wherwith to destroy.
 638
 Note this First and last, bycause of Baligon ali. Carmara, his prince & tables.
 639
 Practise with spirituall weapons.
 640
 Ubi . . . est: “Where there is neither glory, nor goodness, nor good.” -Ed.
 641
 Sempiternitie: “eternity.” -Ed.
 642
 Note. Practise. Lib°. 2°, Filij Filiorum: (“In book 2, sons of the sons.” -Ed)
 643
 Note. Prince Butmono sayd this: but the office is under king Bnaspol, whose prince is Blisdon. The
 Mystery of this I know not yet: For Blisdon will be fownd to be the proper minister of king Bnaspol.
 Vide Anno 1583 May 5th, of the Making of Mensa faeders, and my Golder Lamine. -Δ (HM). Mensa
faederis: “the table (or altar) of the law (or covenant).” -Ed.
 644
 In the manuscript, Dee has written this as “E.ŦK.” -Ed.
 645
 Vox hominibus . . . mundi: “The voice not worthy for the people, but these with their sons have
 praised God. Blessed is he who is the only son, and glory of the world.” -Ed.
 646
 The black cloth of silence and staying.
 647
 The Token to leaue of, by a black shaddowing all in the stone.
 648
 Note: how he governeth Three, and Carmara (his King) hath also a Triple crown.
 649
 This Character seemes to stand for Carmara, as apperes from severall places in fol .2.a. & b. &
 many other. It appears by a note of Dr. Δ (De Heptarchia &c: Cap. i.) that Michaell & Uriel were
 present at the begining of these revealed Misteries & gave authority to Carmara to order the whole
 Heptarchicall Revelacon. Perhaps this authority was entred in the first lost leafe of this 4th booke
 (thowgh Dr. Dee calls it the 2d Booke in his Note.) see Chap: 2 at the begining. By a marginall note at
 the beginning of the first Chapter, it should seeme, that the Dr. meanes by the first Booke the Action
 only of the 16 of Nov. 1582, & by the 2d Booke the Actions of the 17, 19 & 20 of Nov. 1582. But his
 marginal note of 19 should be 20 of Nov. for so it appears by the Actions entred. The 21 of Nov: vizt:
 the action of that day he calls the Appendix of the 2d chapter. -E.A. Laus . . . semp.: “Praise and
 honor be to the eternal and omnipotent God, now and ever. Amen.” -Ed.
 650
 Ille . . . Venite: “Truly he is God. Come.” -Ed.
 651
 Δ: So he sayd in latin, in the forpart of the leaf before.
 652
 Note. Copper apperteyneth to ♀ . -Δ. HM reads, “All the Princis held up to gither, Heptagonon
 stellare, (as I terme it) and it seemed to be of Copper.” -Ed.
 653
 Δ Forte Bagenol / Hagonel, if H be for B. Then Bagonel conteyned Bagenol.
 654
 Me nosti: “You have known me.” -Ed.
 655
One of the first of the Twelue.
 656
 ‘8. Gods visitation. And it is 8: may be 8 yeres added to this tyme: and that maketh 1590. Nouemb.
 16. That 8, or 88, I know not yet.
 657
 Prince Befafes with feathers under his robes.
 658
 Deo soli . . . gloria: “All honor and glory to God alone.” -Ed.
 659
 Prince Butmono. -Ed.
 660
 In earth.
 661
 The Dead mens bodyes.
 662
 The Light of his anger. 
663
 Threasure hid requested.
 664
 Antichrist
 665
 How can the middest of a spirituall creature be imagined? My dowt to ax. He meant the middest or
 center of the Earth. The middest of his Charge. 
666
 Δ A great dowt . . . me yet, the diuersity of the 4th and fifth officers, and officis as they are here, and
 in the Repetition ensuing.
 667
 Δ: in Animantibus bratij. (“in living creatures.” -Ed.) Sloane 3677 misreads “ animantibus oratis.”
 668
 (Δ = man.)
 669
 Virtus officij sui -Δ. (“The power of his office.” -Ed.)
 670
Short Coat. The first.
 671
 Novi Januam Mortis: “I have known the Gate of Death.” -Ed.
 672
 Et percussit . . . Dixi: “And the Glory of God has struck the walls of the wicked. I have spoken.” -Ed.
 673
 Prince Brorges.
 674
 Mysteria . . . imprimite: “Engrave these mysteries on your souls/minds.” -Ed.
 675
 A forte, in Aëre.
 676
 But Baligon, als Carmara, in the ende of the boke sayeth it to be his office. Consider well. Prince
 Bralges hath Blumaza his king.
 677
 The powres under his Subiection are Invisible. They appeared like little white smokes without any
 forme. All the world semed to be in brightnese. -HM
 678
 The seale.
 679
 Exchue Wauering or suspition.
 680
 All Mysteries shalbe known to us. -Δ. The last of 7 Princes of the boke spoke hereof his words. 
(HM)
 681
 Secreta Dei, non sunt hominibus reuelanda. -Δ. (“Secrets of God are not to be revealed to men.” -Ed.)
 682
 Δ: Note Highest and Lowest to be understode perhaps in Tabula Collecta.
 683
 BLUMAZA Rex est super Reges Terrae et illius sunt primus princeps, et illius Ministri, ut conycio.
 Hanc partem primam vocat unum Librum: in quinta pagina sequente, ad
hanc Notam  .
 It shold seme that this character shold be onely a Circle and a pryck fol.6.b. I haue forgotten how I
 cam by this Crosse annexed to it.
 alr Remember. Obelison his promise to me of knowing and using. (This note is next to “Befafes” on
 the diagram. -Ed.)
 Words: 9
 9 
9 
7 
11 
45
 
Sanctus sanctus sanctus Dominus Deus noster: “Holy, holy, holy, O Lord, our God”; Blumaza Rex est
 ... Notam: “I conclude that Blumaza is the king, and rules the kings of the Earth, and they are his first
 prince and servants.  calls this first part one book in the fifth page following, marked with the
 symbol .” -Ed.
 684
 “Around one in the morning.” -Ed
 685
 Carmara al: Baligon
 686
 In the manuscript, this word has a crown drawn above it, i.e.,  . -Ed.
 687
 Nam ipse . . . nostro: “For he himself is one and indivisible. Glory, glory, glory be to our Creator.” 
Ed
 688
 Δ forte, of this work.
 689
 The rownd Table.
 690
 NOTE this to be a REPETITION of the Heptagonon this little Treatise aeffore. Lern to reconcile the
 4th and the 5th. -Δ. In HM, Dee notes, “At the Call of King Carmara (in the Second handling of this
 Heptarchicall doctrine), whan he sayd, Venite, Repetamus Opera Dei, Appered Prince Hagonel.”
 Venite . . . Dei: “Come, let us renew the works of God step by step.” -Ed.
691
 Δ hã . . . bis dext . . . Adhuc duo, et tempus non est. (This reading is from Sloane 3677. It is illegible
 in Sloane 3188. -Ed.)
 692
 Short Coat.
 693
 Δ: I think he ment by the rownd table shewed, which Mr. K. had sent me &c, bycause the names cam
 out of that Table.
 694
 Haec sunt . . . intelligis: “These are your lessons, which you do not yet understand.” -Ed.
 695
 According to HM this was Hagonel. -Ed.
 696
 Unus . . . nostrum: “There is one God, and there is one work of ours.” -Ed.
 697
 Parati . . . nostro: “We have been prepared to serve our God.” -Ed.
 698
 Vide libro 3°.
 699
 Hagonel seamed to embrace the Cumpany. -Δ (HM).
 700
 Δ: I dowt it shold be short coat
 holding or embracing all the Table with his hands, and not H. Note
 Istorum - Istarum, as if it were filias et filiare &c. (Et nomen . . . sunt: “And my name is a whole
 number, nor is their offence in our number. Moses named us. The power of these men is like the
 power of these women. Although they are not one, nevertheless they are in unity.” -Ed.)
 701
 Making the phrase, Tam . . . Quam: “as . . . so . . .” -Ed.
 702
 Dei potestas. -Δ (“God’s power.” -Ed.)
 703
 Quatenus . . . quaerit: “How great is your vanity? You knew these numbers to be in God, in the world,
 and in the minor world. In God, that is, with us. In the world, that is, in our presence. In the minor
 world, that is among us. (Your mind/soul is combined with thought.) It is debated among
 philosophers, and above all) concerning NATURE, which is not with you but with us (ah, ah, ah) and
it is in our power. You (singular form) will see God. You (singular form) have seen our work, the
 work (I say) of his own hands. We shall be moved by the finger of God. He came [or comes] from
 God. He was a man, and with men: and is yet with them. For truly his power gives might, strength,
 and purpose, not only to us, but to our deeds. What does your unburied soul seek for yourself?” Note
 the missing parenthesis probably belongs after Phõs, “philosophers.” Unburied soul: “soul of a living
 person as opposed to a dead person’s soul.” -Ed.
 704
 Ab humo . . . dictum est: “From the earth, from man; from man is the word.” -Ed.
 705
 Skaped: “escaped.” -Ed.
 706
 HM reads, “robes or clothes.” -Ed.
 707
 Note this reckening by six and six.
 708
 HM reads, “blown bladder,” i.e., inflated balloon. -Ed.
 709
 So he sayd pagina praecedente, unum est opus nostrum. -Δ. ( “On the preceding page (he said), ‘Our
 workmanship is all one.’” -Ed.)
 710
 The diuision of the Daye.
 711
 In sexto et 7° sunt omnia, fol. 10. -Δ. “All things are in a sixth and a seventh, fol. 10.” -Ed.
 712
 Note. K. Car. There are but 6 Names that are in Subiection unto the Prince: The first 7 next him: are
 those which held the fayr & bewtifull Crownes. The first 7 are called by those names that thow seest:
 O E S &c. Note. This diversity of Reckening by 6, and by 7, I can not yet well reconcyle. -Δ(HM).
 713
 There is a blank space in the manuscript. -Ed.
 714
 Δ: How can Bobogel be accownted the first name?
 715
 Δ: Now he meaneth at Bobogel in that table collected from  made before.
 716
Note. The Tablet to be conferred with the rownd . -Δ.The latter drawing is reproduced from
 Sloane 3677, since the original is now lost. -Ed.
 717
 In margin: Sent to me by E.K.
 718
 A sword in the mans hand within the Circle.
 719
 O in this Table OFS &c, is of the eighth name, the second letter, but the ninth here in respect of the
 circle of numbers.
 720
 Note who sayeth this. Δ: Note the like phrase: fol. 2. of Hagonel who sayd he had spoken of it,
 whereas we had receyved nothing of him before.
 721
 This is the symbol of Saturn/Saturday. -Ed.
 722
 Δ him.
 723
 Baligons rule and government.
 724
 Sup. fol. 1. b.2.
 725
 Prodigious rule and government, the ende of all things.
 726
 Dee his languishing desire.
 727
 God graunt.
 728
 Δ I understode not this to be so: tyll he called to my remembrance and made me turne my bokes to that
 Parcell which he called the Prologe declared by Annael: which Saul skryed: &c.
 729
 Δ: = hardest, for me, in respect of my Imperfections.
 730
In the manuscript, this word is heavily underscored. -Ed.
 731
 Those—as he seemed to Embrace them. fo. 5.
 732
 The Prince and his first 7.
 733
 = data.
 734
 Istorum Noua potestas incipit. -Δ. (“Their new power begins.” -Ed.)
 735
 Regnat... quaeso: “It rules, it rules, it rules; O wickedness rules over the entire face of the Earth. The
 heart of man is filled with malice and iniquity. Please consider.” -Ed.
 736
 Angels, ministers of Gods wrath.
 737
 Consider the reckening here by 7, but before he had a reckening by 6. 
738
 There were but 6 holding bewtifull Crownes.
 739
 The Powre and being of the rest. 
740
 Now by 7.
 741
 Δ: each of .7. letters. Six names in subiection.
 742
 on the right hand.
 743
 Δ forte “of the first 7”. Δ videlicet.
 744
 ∆: of the six lines.
 745
 Note, Name and Character.
746
 Praxis. Call. -∆. (Praxis: “exercise, practise.” -Ed.)
 747
 Prince, Ministers. 6.
 748
 Destruction or hurt.
 749
 = Kings. -∆. HM reads “princes,” without the qualification. -Ed.
 750
 ... Sciences past present or to come.
 751
 Diuers kings.
 752
 Dignification.
 753
 ∆: Is it not Annael with whome I began?
 754
 ∆ Who is that?
 755
 HM does not include this instruction. -Ed.
 756
 ∆: Ergo it shold seme to be his office to deale with Kings: but in the ende he declareth his office to be
 of all Aëreall actions.
 757
 ∆: Hagonel.
 758
 ∆ Character. HM has no such notation. -Ed.
 759
 Of 7 letters a pece.
 760
 The placing of my fete in practise. 
761
Note former boke.
 762
 Δ The Table of practise of a yard square: libro: 1°.
 763
 The stone was not yet browght.
 764
 HM reads “Mercies” in one place, and “Mercy” in another. -Ed.
 765
 I shall not practise these Tables in Vayne.
 766
 Dei Misericordia magna ipi Δ concessa. (“God’s great mercy granted to Dee himself.” -Ed.)
 767
 Respice ista Tria. -∆. (“Respect these three things.” -Ed.)
 768
 Shaddowed: “sheltered.” -Ed.
 769
 Secresy.
 770
 Queen Elizabeth -Ed.
 771
 God graunt.
 772
 Worldly vanity.
 773
 Good Angels.
 774
 Laus ... Max°.: “Praise, honor, glory, power, and sovereignty be to God, all good.” -Ed.
 775
 Stay: “delay.” -Ed.
 776
 Noble men.
777
 This I note for the form of calling. -∆. Venito ... munitus: “Come, O Bobogel, king and noble prince.
 Come with your ministers. Come (I say), come fortified with your guards.” -Ed.
 778
 Note.
 779
 Cave -∆ (“Beware.” -Ed.)
 780
 Ioly = “jolly: handsome.” -Ed.
 781
 BOBOGEL his apparayle.
 782
 Faciamus . . . aeternus: “May we act in accordance with God’s will. He, our God, is truly noble and
 eternal.” -Ed.
 783
 HM reads, “sonk down into the Transparent fyry Globe of the New World.” -Ed.
 784
 In the manuscript, the first four are indicated with a brace. -Ed.
 785
 In the manuscript, the first four are indicated with a brace. -Ed.
 786
 In the manuscript, the first three are marked with a brace. -Ed.
 787
 In the mansucript, the last four are marked with a brace. -Ed.
 788
 Deo soli ... Gloria: “All honor and glory to God alone.” -Ed.
 789
 “Around 1 in the morning.” -Ed.
 790
 BOBOGEL Rex.
 791
 A rownd Table.
792
 Women-like.
 793
 Farthingale: “hoop skirt.” -Ed.
 794
 The Circle.
 795
 Tam mali ... noster: “Both the wicked and the good praise you. God, God, our God.” -Ed.
 796
 Nomen . . . Bobogel: “My name is Bobogel.” -Ed.
 797
 ∆: in Heptagonum.
 Bobogel ---------- Rex 
Bornogo ------------ Princeps
 (Rex: “king”; Princeps: “prince.” -Ed.)
 798
 Wisdome & Science: “true nobility.”
 799
 Councell.
 800
 Clean: “completely.” -Ed.
 801
 Praters: “fools.” -Ed.
 802
 Ordinationem ... eleuate: “Raise up the government of infinite power.” -Ed.
 803
 LEE.
 804
 O Unitas ... in Deo: “O Unity in nature and in God.” -Ed.
 805
O Aequalitas ... et se: “O equality of God and Nature. God in God. Nature from God and itself.” -Ed.
 806
 Concentus ... Naturae: “His harmony is without number. Nevertheless he is together with us, the
 source and head of nature.” -Ed.
 807
 Veritas ... est: “Ours is the truth which is sought after.” -Ed.
 808
 Note, this is an example of what William Sherman calls a “face bracket” (John Dee, Amherst, MA:
 University of Massachusetts Press, 1995, p. 88). Dee drew them often in the margins of texts, and they
 only seem to mark alchemical passages (as here) or natural philosophical texts. -Ed.
 809
 Vegetible, Minerall.
 810
 811
 Beatus est ... mei: “Blessed is the light of my head.” -Ed.
 812
 Unus ... pedubus: “One in head, one in heart, one in feet.” -Ed.
 813
 Ientleman = gentleman: “nobleman.” -Ed.
 814
 Note. King Bobogel said this of my atteyning to such mysteries, as the mysteries under him made
 shew of. -∆ (HM).
 815
 2. NAR.
 816
 Volumus: “we wish”; Possumus: “we can”; Quid non: “What not?” -Ed.
 817
 Faciamus ... societate: “Let us do what they did, for we three are Adam, by association.” -Ed.
 818
 3. BLN.
 819
Ab illo, per illum, cum illo: “from him, through him, with him.” -Ed.
 820
 Qui caret hijs tribus: “Who lacks these three.” -Ed.
 821
 In ecclesia ... Vanum: “In the church of God, he will work in vain.” -Ed.
 822
 Penitence.
 823
 Lawn: “thin fabric.” -Ed.
 824
 Sunt semper . . . unus: “They are always, and their food is one.” -Ed.
 825
 Vicissim: “in turns.” -Ed.
 826
 4. ANA.
 827
 Ab illo sed. Cum illo sed: “from him only; with him only.” -Ed.
 828
 Aliqui . . . Digni: “Some from worthiness, others are not worthy of any sort.” -Ed.
 829
 Per illum, Per ilium, Per illum: “Through him, through him, through him.” -Ed.
 830
 Cahos: “chaos.” -Ed.
 831
 Et quia . . . ignis: “And because they were lacking in blazing fires.” -Ed.
 832
 In the manuscript there is a line drawn from LEE to BLN, and another line from NAR to ANA. -Ed.
 833
 Omnes . . . in illo: “Everything towards nature, but not in him.” -Ed.
 834
 ∆ There remayned 10 tymes Three.
 835
∆ of 30.
 836
 Note, by theyr sitting that they are indifferent: and so they say.
 837
 ∆ They semed therfore to sit betwene the perfect and reiected: as indifferent.
 838
 Sumus ... novit: “We are the seven gates of Nature, and of him who knew God.” -Ed.
 839
 ∆: beside AOIDIAB.
 840
 6, 7. -∆. In sexto ... omnia: “All things are in the 6th and 7th.” -Ed.
 841
 NOTE the narrow path, above the chayr.
 842
 ∆ Bornogo.
 843
 Formatur ... Heptagono: “The maker of these is the second in the Heptagon.” -Ed.
 844
 Note former. ergo. There is allso a circle on the grownd. Vide ante 3 folia: of my fete placed uppon
 the Tables: Ergo they shold seme to be on the grownd. -∆ (Vide ante 3 folia: “See three folios
 earlier.” -Ed.)
 845
 ∆: of the six orders.
 846
 Practise. by 6.
 847
 Sloane 3188 reads, “excellencies of” in Ashmole’s handwriting, but CHM, HM, and Sloane 3677 all
 read, “excellencies in.” -Ed.
 848
 This boke sometymes called liber Creationis, & sometymes Tabulae Creationis. -∆. (“The Book of
 Creation,” the “Tables of Creation.”-Ed.)
 849
 HM cites this: “King Carmara, Novemb. 19, of King Bobogel, his princis Ministers.” -Ed.
850
 A Threfold use of this Doctrine.
 851
 Dixi: “I have spoken.” -Ed.
 852
 Rex Aquarum. -∆. (“The King of the Waters.” -Ed)
 853
 Venito . . . fuit: “Come, come (I say), be present. Come, O King. O King, King, King of the waters,
 come, come I say. You are great, but my power is greater still. Our God stands firm, rules, and is, that
 which he was.” -Ed.
 854
 Parati . . . adsunt: “We have been provided his name from our Creator, the name, to praise the name,
 the Name (I say) of One now [blank space in manuscript] and living. These are dark/obscure to dark
 minds, but true and clear to true and perfect minds. Behold, they are present.” -Ed.
 855
 Note this Kings apparayle, and shew.
 856
 King BABALEL
 857
 Omne ... aecium: “May everyone living praise God, one and three, into all time.” -Ed.
 858
 At an ynche: “nearby.” -Ed.
 859
 Skipjack: “a dandy, skipping fellow.” -Ed.
 860
 He calleth Befafes.
 861
 Veni ... iste: “Come, O prince of the seven princes, who are princes of the Waters. I am the king,
 mighty and wonderful in the waters, whose power is in the depths of the waters. That prince . . .” -Ed.
 862
 The Prince his apparayle.
 863
 . . . est Tertius principum in Heptagonon: “. . . is the third Principality in the Heptagon.” -Ed.
864
 Heptagono: “(in) the Heptagon.” Dee seems to be checking or correcting Kelley here. -Ed.
 865
 Vere . . . aquas: “I have spoken quite plainly and distinctly. . . . Have you measured the waters?” -Ed.
 866
 Factum est: “It is so.” -Ed.
 867
 Prince Befafes, my old frende unknown of me.
 868
 Philosophers. -Ed.
 869
 John Scotus Erigena (815?-877 theologian)? Michael Scot (introduced translations of Aristotle)?
 John Duns Scotus (126s?-1308 theologian)?–Ed.
 870
 Δ The fifth of the seventh. I understand not this yet. Vide lib. 5. A° 1583 Maij 1.
 871
 NOTE: of wicked spirits, some restitution to favor.
 872
 See. 4th Enochian Call: “obelisong” is translated “as pleasant deliverers.” -Ed.
 873
 Or Cerclets perhaps.
874
 HM reads, “Euery one of the 42 had a letter in his forhed. They were 7 in a row: and 6, downward.
 But of the first 7 the letters became to be between theyr feet, and the water seamed contynually to pass
 over these letters.” -Ed.
 875
 Threasors in the seas.
 876
 Practise.
 877
 King and Prince govern the whole day.
 878
 Δ: Whereas in the former Treatise, ther was a dowt of Butmono the fowrth, and Blisdon theyr offyces,
 being assigned here clere contrary: The dowt may be answered by the notes A. 1583, Maij 5 of the
 Table and my Character. Therefore I suspect some Intruder to have first .... -Δ. Vitam . . . Viuentium:
 “God gave life to all creatures. Come ye, come O fire. Come, O life of mortals Come (I say). Be
 present. God rules. O come. For he alone rules, and is the life of the living.” -Ed.
 879
 HM identifies this as King Bynepor. -Ed.
 880
 Butmono. -Ed.
 881
 Verè beatus: “Truly blessed.” -Ed.
 882
 Omnium . . . immensa: “Perpetual and unlimited praise for the giver of all good.” -Ed.
 883
 Ipse dixit. -Δ. (“He himself said.” -Ed.)
 884
 Generaltye.
 885
 Ipse: “himself.” -Ed.
 886
 Vita . . . manibus: “The highest life, the higher life, and the lowest life are measures by my hands.” 
Ed.
 887
Note second last world.
 888
 Ecce, omnia Noua. -Δ. (“Behold, all things are new.” -Ed.)
 889
 Vitam . . . ubique: “He surrenders life, and gives me power to be, and to live in perpetual glory.
 Everything and everywhere.” -Ed.
 890
 Note.
 891
 Δ I dowt, I did not here perfectly at this writing down.
 892
 Cumpassing with it a loft: circling it around in the air. -Ed.
 893
 Δ Bnaspol.
 894
 Δ Blisdon.
 895
 An Innumerable Cumpany of ugly Creatures, a far of.
 896
 Vide Lib°. 5, 1583 Martij 26.
 897
 Vide de istis in libro Cracoviensi Junij 26. Treasure hid in earth, kept by wycked spirites. -Δ. See
 TFR, p. 180. -Ed.
 898
 Bnaspol, Blisdon.
 899
 Venite . . . dentium: “Come here, where there is no peace, but only the gnashing of teeth.” -Ed.
 900
 Prince Brorges. -Ed.
 901
 The King.
 902
Mark who sayd so before. -Δ. This was Carmara at the beginning of Book 4. -Ed.
 903
 Note a great Secret of spirits in payn expecting release.
 904
 Somwhat was not hard of me, or forgot. Perhaps Terror.
 905
 Δ: Bnapsen.
 906
 Δ; Brorges.
 907
 Note A. 1583, Maij. Thus I considered In dede after a sort Brorges may be cownted as last, for the
 begyning secretly was with Bralges.
 908
 Bralges sayd his government was of such: super fol. 4.b. -Δ. Venite . . . potestate: “Come you who are
 under my power.” -Ed.
 909
 The Circle of letters.
 910
 HM notes, “Prince Bagenol appeared not, by that name, yet. Note, the king him self [Baligon, aka
 CARMARA] is governor ouer these.” -Ed.
 911
 The last Ternarie. That is expownded lib°. 5. Maij 5.
 912
 Note, As Michael and Uriel, at the begynning of these revealed mysteries, were present, and gaue
 Authority to Carmara, to order the whole Heptarchicall Reuelation, so, at the Conclusion, they
 appeared agayn and Raphael with them, and Michael concluded the second boke (of this particular
 Reuelation Heptarchicall,) with these words following. -Δ (HM).
 913
 Prima pars Artis Triplicis: he termeth this afterward of three proportions in Esse. Consider these
 three principall points here. -Δ. Prima pars Artis Triplicis: “The first part of a triple art.” -Ed.
 914
 Annael.
 915
 Gloria . . . Maximoque: “May glory, laud, honor, and eternal thanksgiving be to our God, almighty and
all good.” -Ed.
 916
 1588. On twelfth day at night as I considered the Method of this boke, this cam to my mynde. -Δ.
 Dee’s diary fills in some of the events between this action and the next: “[1582] Nov. 22nd, E.K.
 went to London, and so the next day conveied by rode toward Blakley, and within ten dayes to
 returne. Nov. 24th, Saterday night I dremed that I was deade, and afterward my bowels wer taken out
 I walked and talked with diverse, and among other with the Lord Thresorer who was com to my
 howse to burn my bokes when I was dead, and thought he loked sourely on me. [1583] Feb. 26th, I
 delivered my boke to the Lord Threasorer for the correction of the Calender. March 6th, I, and Mr.
 Adrian Gilbert and John Davis, did mete with Mr. Alderman Barnes, Mr. Townson and Mr. Yong and
 Mr. Hudson, abowt the N.W. voyage. March 18th, Mr. North from Poland, after he had byn with the
 Quene he cam to me. I receyved salutation from Alaski, Palatine in Poland; salutation by Mr. North
 who cam before to the Quene, and next to me was his message, hor. 12.” Halliwell, ed., The Private
 Diary of Dr. John Dee (New York: AMS Press, 1968), pp. 18–19.
 917
 Note. The cullour red and grene of the Table of Covenant. Two chayres.
 918
 Two Chayres.
 919
 Idque.
 920
 O quanta . . . perfectione: “O how great is the weakness and corruption of mankind, that has little faith
 in angels and their good deeds, but hardly any faith in God. All worldly things contain the corruption
 of the world within them. Our God, our God, he (I say) our God is true, and is true with his true
 angels and those who ever serve him. Ask for what you wish. I have spoken, and what I have spoken
 that was obscure, was in truth, justice, and perfection.” -Ed.
 921
 Note of this Rod.
 922
 Ecce . . . Hic . . . Per hoc . . . Et a Mensurae . . . vis? “Behold . . . here, . . . and here. . . . And from
 the end of the measure you will measure us and our power. Practice (I say). What do you wish?” -Ed.
 923
 Parabolically: using parable. -Ed
 924
 In umbra . . . Age: “In the shadow of death there is no equality. Nothing is obscure which you have
 received through him (E.K.). Practice.” -Ed.
 925
A Threefold work.
 926
 In HM, Dee attributes this to “Carmara, Nouemb. 21. in appendix of the second boke.” -Ed.
 927
 Threfold Work.
 928
 The Kings with their Characters.
 929
 An, Aue, Rocle, Liba. I understand of Il, An, Aue, &c in the characters of the 7 kings.
 930
 Filij Filiorum - An, Aue, &c. Examination to be made of these bokes. -Δ. Filii Filiorum: “Sons of the
 Sons” -Ed.
 931
 Δ fortè “Unlawfull” and was myshard.
 932
 Forte: “their.”–Ed.
 933
 Princis.
 934
 Liber Creationis. Note, what hath bin tawght in this boke. -Δ. HM attributes this saying to Carmara,
 Nouemb. 21. Liber Creationis: “Book of Creation.” -Ed.
 935
 Δ: as may appere by the 49 names Collected.
 936
 Δ: I suspect this to be an imperfect phrase.
 937
 Name among Angels
 938
 Δ = name expressed.
 939
 Note Attire.
 940
It is to weete: “that is to say.” -Ed.
 941
 Modo retrogrado quasi: “now as if going backward.” -Ed.
 942
 Addendo . . . Baligon: “This course is made by adding 7. Therefore adding 7 to the number 43 results
 in 50: a number one greater than 49, which may indicate the first king, Baligon.” -Ed.
 943
 Addendo . . . principe: “This course is made by adding 7. Therefore if 7 is added to the number 37,
 from there results 44 for the next prince.” -Ed.
 944
 Δ: Note that he calleth that contynually A Globe. Uppon such a globe Nalvage shewed out all the
 Calls.
 945
 HM reads “must have.” -Ed.
 946
 King . . . first . . . answering to Blumaza as I perceyued 1583 Maij 5, mane by meditation: and of
 Necessity must be: yf the last be for Baligon.
 947
 The next 1 is the last letter of Babalel, and then transversim as before, &c.
 948
 Traversim quasi retrograde: “Going crosswise as if backwards.” -Ed.
 949
 Last.
 950
 Last.
 951
 Left.
 952
 Meterly well: “fairly well.” -Ed.
 953
 The use of the Circular Table (here before often called a Globe) at another tyme.
 954
 I omitted a word, and our memories could not yeld it, this perhaps, Dignifyed.
955
 An angel holding up the stone.
 956
 This stone brought by the Angel is said to bee an nich thick in the following Mysteriorum Lib. 5. Ms.
 p. El. Ash: conceives it to have been of a lenticular forme, included in a circular limb upon the top of
 which a cross, & edgewise sett in the frame. -E.A. See action of 5 May 1583. -Ed.
 957
 Veritas . . . uno est: “Truth is within truth, God within God, One is within one.” -Ed.
 958
 caue. -Δ. (“Beware.” -Ed.)
 959
 Illi . . . saecula: “May all honor, praise, and glory be to him who is to reveal the age through fire,
 forever and ever.” Perhaps *indicere is intented: “to inflict (the age with fire).” Ashmole reads
 Iudicare: “to judge.” -Ed.
 960
 The words “Liber 6us. / Liber 7us.” are in Ashmole’s handwriting. -Ed.
 961
 The boke fownd in Northwik hill.
 962
 The scroll is shown below before the April 11 th Action. It shows the locations of ten hidden
 treasures. -Ed.
 963
 Pilosus. -Δ (“Hairy.” -Ed. )
 964
 Penetrasti . . . meae: “You penetrated the power of my iniquity.” -Ed.
 965
 Feci, Nam decedo: “I am done, for I depart.” -Ed.
 966
 Auete. Verum est, et incredibile: “Greetings. It is the truth, and incredible.” -Ed.
 967
 lustitia. -Δ (“Justice” -Ed.)
 968
 Via . . . eleyson: “The way, the truth, and the virtue are one, and his greatness is manifold and
wonderful. And the breath comes from your mouth (and has life) from which everything lives, by your
 command and your light. Hail the word, hail the creator of things and of their measure which have
 been, are, and will be. You have illuminated the eyes of the creatures by reminders and plain
 warnings. Life to the good, but death to the wicked, and those cast from your consideration. How
 great and innumerable are your gifts? O remiges varpax. Lord have mercy.” -Ed.
 969
 Aqua. -Δ (“Water.” -Ed)
 970
 Loquitur de mea cogitatione, quod esset Raphaël. -Δ. (“He speaks concerning my thought that he may
 be Raphael.” -Ed.)
 971
 O Beata Trinitas . . . eius: “O blessed Trinity, send your light and your truth, that they may lead me to
 the holy mountain and to your tent. Me: Where, O unbelievers? Δ: We are not unbelievers, but our
 hope is alive, and the eternal and almighty truth is the fountain of life. Me: I brought you water from
 that same stream. It is a true medicine for your imperfections and needs. Understand now both who I
 am and for whom I was adorned. Drink and receive the abundance for your bones [can also be
 figurative: innermost part, soul]. For many are the imperfections of mortals. I have and you (pl) will
 have. I brought, and he shall be seen. The word is that light that blots out all imperfections. The
 faithful will enter into his blessedness. Wherein is the potion and eternal medicine. You thought
 correctly [see previous footnote]: I am indeed as you believe. For by truth and justice, his words and
 teachings are true and complete.” -Ed.
 972
 Recte sapere: “To perceive correctly.” -Ed.
 973
 Ecce seruus . . . pronunciatum: “Behold the servant of the Lord, Let his decree be for me (like his
 mercy) as was declared about me.” -Ed.
 974
 Perfyted: “perfected.” -Ed.
 975
 Increduli. -Δ (“Unbelievers.” -Ed.)
 976
 HM identifies this as Raphael. -Ed.
 977
 A parable.
 978
 Note hereby to consider theyr actions, gestures and other circumstances.
979
 Signa sunt . . . resanabit: “These are signs to you (pl) of humility and of repentance; which (signs) I
 make everything yours; they are not mine. May his word be praised in heaven, and may he also be
 praised on earth. Discover power in the humility of his speech (or language) and you (pl) will see the
 glory of his brow. For the glory of his power is merciful and almighty. Vanities exist in his seductions;
 Necessities exist in your true needs. For he made all things for his praise: and (behold) his handiwork
 praises the light of his face. Love one another; live with humility. Truly, my medicine (which is his)
 will convey everything.” -Ed.
 980
 Nature ∴ Reason ∴
 981
 Note Adam, before his fall, knew all things.
 982
 The true use and order of the premisses.
 983
 Raze out: “erase.” -Ed.
 984
 Et finis est: “And it is the end.” -Ed.
 985
 Note of this boke.
 986
 J Dee, and EK.
 987
 Adrian Gilbert, half-brother to Sir Walter Raleigh, was a frequent visitor to Mortlake. He eventually
 was allowed to participate in some of the actions. Earlier in this same year (1583), Dee started plans
 to colonize North America with Adrian Gilbert and John Davis. During subsequent actions, Dee
 consults the angels about this proposed venture.
 988
 Potentia, Actus. -Δ (“Power, Deed.” -Ed.)
 989
 Δ Blisdon is the prince under Bnaspol the king. Vide sup. Lib. 4: A°. 1587. Circa Maiu: Quidam Ben,
 (spiritualis Creatura) dixit ipi EK, se custodinisse illum pulverem et librum Dunstani, &c. -Δ. (Vide
 sup. ...: “See above in book 4. Around May 1587 one Ben (a spiritual creature) said to EK that he
 himself had guarded that powder and Book of Dunstan.”) See TFR Actio Tertia, May 23, p. 27 (pages
 separately numbered). -Ed.
990
 Gloria patri: “Glory be to the Father.” -Ed.
 991
 A lambs hed, may be a token of our humilitie required, &c.
 992
 Magna . . . dixisti: “Great are the things that I have said.” -Ed.
 993
 Note.
 994
 NOTE.
 995
 Note. All tymes, Speciall tymes.
 996
 Of frendship, at any tyme.
 997
 Note.
 998
 Furder.
 999
 NOTE Whose charge it is to deliuer it.
 1000
 Veritas. -Δ. (“Truth, verity.” -Ed.)
 1001
 Lingua et Vox Angelica. -Δ. (“Angelic language and voice.” -Ed. )
 1002
 The Powre of the primitiue diuine or Angelicall speche.
 1003
 ADAM.
 1004
 Angelorum Colloquia -Δ. (“Conversation of angels.” -Ed.) 46 Tres ab hominibus in cæelos rapti cum
 Angelis conversantes. Forte, ʻEnoch, Elias, Jo . . .’ -Δ. (“Three carried off to heaven keeping
 company with angels. Perhaps Enoch, Elias, and John [the Baptist].” -Ed.) 47 NOTE. -Δ. In the
manuscript this last sentence is heavily underscored. -Ed. 48 Forte: “presseth.” 49 Note. 50 Shivered:
 “shattered.” -Ed. 51 The boke, the first Language of God Christ.
 1005
 The cullor of the Letters.
 1006
 21 Characters.
 1007
 Δ By his often taking things from under the table it shold seme that there shold be some shelf made
 under our Table.
 1008
 Unus . . . es: “You are One, One, One, Great, Great, Great.” -Ed.
 1009
 Magna . . . eius: “Great is his glory.” -Ed.
 1010
 Numerus . . . tibi: “The number, O most perfect, One and Threefold. Glory be to you.” -Ed.
 1011
 A battle foreshewed.
 1012
 Before two yeres finished, Ergo before A°. 1585, Martij 26.
 1013
 NOTE.
 1014
 Election.
 1015
 The Apostles on Whitson Sonday.
 1016
 A. Gilbert may be made priuie, but he is not to be a Practiser.
 1017
 Medicina sum: “I am the medicine.” -Ed.
 1018
 Medicina or Medicus Dei: “God’s medicine or doctor.” -Ed.
 1019
A Gilbert, his task.
 1020
 Note, a prophesy.
 1021
 Description geographicall.
 1022
 Tenebrae post dorsum. -Δ (“Darkness behind the back.” -Ed.)
 1023
 For discoveries making of the seas and theyr bownds.
 1024
 Instruction requisite.
 1025
 Note.
 1026
 Both ioyntly EK and J:D:
 1027
 Leysor: “leisure.” -Ed.
 1028
 God will shew himself aliue.
 1029
 O liber . . . vobis: “O book, book, book, life to the good, but truly death itself for the wicked. Great
 are the wonders sealed up inside you, and great is the name of your seal. The light of my medicine,
 for you.” -Ed.
 1030
 Gloria Laus et honor Deo p<at>ri et F<ilio> et S<piritui> S<ancto>: “Glory, praise, and honor to
 God the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit.” - Ed.
 1031
 Insidiatores. -∆. (“Traitors.” -Ed.)
 1032
 Pereant . . . mea: “May everyone perish who betray the virtue of my name: and who have hidden the
 light of my justice.” -Ed.
 1033
 Multa . . . ipem: “Reprove us, because he himself suffers much.” -Ed.
1034
 Constrayned: “forced.” -Ed.
 1035
 Pilosus. -∆ (“Hairy.” -Ed.)
 1036
 See. Matthew 7:9; Luke 11:11-12. -Ed.
 1037
 Heaviness: “sorrow.” -Ed.
 1038
 Raphaëlis officium. -∆. (“Raphael’s office.” -Ed.)
 1039
 Forte, truth.
 1040
 Afflictions to EK.
 1041
 Note the durance of these Memorialls.
 1042
 Traynes: deceits. -Ed.
 1043
 Note of the vision which was shewed A°. 1582.
 1044
 Veniat . . . mentientem: “May the vengeance of God come, and may it may smite the lying tongue.” 
Ed.
 1045
 Dicat . . . non est: “He may speak, for he is not one of us.” -Ed.
 1046
 The finding of the skroll, of the Treasors.
 1047
 Cownterfeted Roll. -∆. Vide infra pag. 152, 153 &c. -E.A.
 1048
 Sic soleo iniustis: “So I am accustomed to unrighteous people.” -Ed.
 1049
Purificata ... nostrorum: “Cleanse, 0 Lord, your holy one, and destroy the wickness of our enemies.” 
Ed.
 1050
 Write. -∆. Visio . . . Dei: “The true vision is truly noted, and it will be noted for the glory of God.” 
Ed.
 1051
 Dixisti, et factum: “I have spoken, and it is so.” -Ed.
 1052
 ∆ Note Body, sowle, spirit.
 1053
 The 12 Apostles.
 1054
 A. G.
 1055
 John Davis is mentioned in Dee’s diary as early as 1577, but Dee probably knew him as a boy. He
 was evidently one of Dee’s pupils, and one of the principal players in the search for the Northwest
 Passage. He stole at least seventy books from Dee’s library after Dee left for Europe in 1583. See
 Julian Roberts and Andrew Watson, John Dee’s Library Catalogue (London: The Bibliographical
 Society, 1990), p. 50.
 1056
 Lern the Alfabet.
 1057
 Soli . . . gloria: “May all honor and glory be to God alone.” -Ed.
 1058
 The reformation of the Kalendar. -∆. On 24 February 1582, Pope Gregory XIII ordered the use of the
 “Gregorian” calendar, and the English court deliberated over its response. Dee was one of the
 authorities commissioned for a report. According to his diary, Dee delivered his proposal to reform
 the calendar to Lord Burghley, Treasurer of England on 26 February 1583. It caused considerable
 controversy. The court opinions were all favorable, and the Queen approved a draft proclamation to
 adopt the reform, but it was rejected by the bishops because they didn’t want to appear to be
 following the Catholic lead. -Ed.
 1059
 Angeli proprij. -∆ (“Proper angels.” -Ed.)
 1060
 Peculier and propre Instigators.
1061
 God his Elect.
 1062
 The reference is to David and Goliath. -Ed.
 1063
 Peradventure: “perhaps.” -Ed.
 1064
 ∆: Raphael long tyme visiting my hed.
 1065
 A secret. -∆. Secretum dico: “I declare a secret.” -Ed.
 1066
 Lingua dolosa. -∆ (“Deceitful speech.” -Ed.)
 1067
 England.
 1068
 Gadding: “wandering.” -Ed.
 1069
 Note, each in his Office.
 1070
 Prævalescentia. -∆ (“Prevailing against.” -Ed.)
 1071
 A: and EK, and A. Gilbert.
 1072
 The erth—1. EK The Tree—2. Δ The planter—3. AG
 1073
 Note Lerne The Alfabet.
 1074
 ∆ Philosophicall Harmonie in prayer, is ment by the prayer which I dayly use, & often: Deus in a m
 ind a a m f G P e F e S &c. -∆. Apparently “Deus in adiutorium meum intende: Domine ad
 adiuvandem me festina: Gloria Patri et Filio et Spiritui Sancto” (“O God, be pleased to deliver me; O
 Lord, hasten to help me. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit”), based on
 Psalm 70. Compare with Dee’s prayer at the beginning of Liber 1. -Ed.
 1075
Omnipotenti . . . actio: “All honor, praise, and thanksgiving be to our almighty God, creator,
 redeemer, and sanctifier.” -Ed.
 1076
 49 49
 441 196
 1077
 100.
 1078
 100.
 1079
 2401
 Zuresch. Veresk and Zuresk are all one. ∆ Perchaunce Zuresch, with ch, for k, and so the word shalbe
 of 7 letters.
 1080
 Ses: the letters giue.
 1081
 Ses.
 1082
 Gampedaz.
 1083
 Kaphene.
 1084
 Domka.
 1085
 Phiam
 1086
 Vrepres
 1087
 Adepd.
 1088
 Aze.
 1089
 Druz.
 1090
Keztz/cests.
 1091
 Unbar.
 1092
 Onizdar.
 1093
 Gharmes.
 1094
 Δ It is not to be spoken or interpreted, but whan the time
 1095
 Sely: “pitiable.” -Ed.
 1096
 Mensurator: “It is measured.” -Ed.
 1097
 appointed is come.
 Sint . . . intelligant: “May those eyes be clear, in order to comprehend.” -Ed.
 1098
 Secundus a primo: “The second from the first.” -Ed.
 1099
 Note this diuersity of sownd and writing: as x for z.
 1100
 Incomprehensilibis . . . tua: “You are incomprehensible in your eternity.” -Ed.
 1101
 ∆: Forte, van. Axe this dowte.
 1102
 Gronhadoz.
 1103
 Oicasman.
 1104
 Veueiah.
 1105
 Nos.
 1106
There is a stop.
 1107
 Ophed.
 1108
 Medoz.
 1109
 Pres.
 1110
 ∆: Note: A-deüne must be pronownced as one worde: like as Res-publica, in latin: els here wold
 seme to be 50 words but, A-deüne, cam out of one square.
 1111
 Vandemhnaxat.
 1112
 Bances.
 1113
 Δ Note and take hede from hence forward.
 1114
 Of the boke.
 1115
 49 Powres with theyr Inferiors, vide sup. 48 after a sort: and 1. vide Martij 24.
 1116
 Angelicall Language.
 1117
 Longe . . . destructionis: “We are far away from the perversity of destruction.” -Ed.
 1118
 There are approximately three blank lines here. -Ed.
 1119
 Raphaël is to be absent for a certayn time: but his powre shall be here.
 1120
 Of the boke.
 1121
 Languages.
1122
 Nihil . . . perfectum: “Nothing is here which is not perfect.” -Ed.
 1123
 Δ Note, that we shalbe Theodidacti, of god him self and no Angel herein. -Δ. Theodidacti: “taught by
 God.” -Ed.
 1124
 Potentia. -Δ. (“Power.” -Ed.)
 1125
 The ende of all things is at hand.
 1126
 The sight of god.
 1127
 Sanctus . . . gloria: “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts. Heaven and earth are filled with the glory
 of his majesty. To him alone is all honor, praise, and glory.” -Ed.
 1128
 Sum: “I am.” -Ed.
 1129
 Impleta . . . tuo: “All things have been fulfilled to your glory and honor.” -Ed.
 1130
 Note, fire.
 1131
 Sic . . . purificare: “So I am accustomed to cleansing the errors of the people.” -Ed.
 1132
 Moue not from your places.
 1133
 Fire agayn.
 1134
 The Third row of the first page.
 1135
 Palse/Palze. I dowt which of these 3 must serve: c,s,z.
 1136
 Ego sum . . . gloriam: “I am the one who is within you. Therefore I am the one who is for myself. Δ:
Not for us, O Lord, not for us, but for your name may we give glory.” -Ed.
 1137
 Orate: “Pray.” -Ed.
 1138
 The fifth row.
 1139
 Pronownced mises.
 1140
 Mansh.
 1141
 Adíper. It is significatiue.
 1142
 Arkad.
 1143
 Pasdas.
 1144
 Dros.
 1145
 Akos.
 1146
 Locus sanctus. -Δ. Locus est hic sanctus: “This place is holy.” -Ed.
 1147
 Sacer est a te Domine: “It is consecrated to you, O Lord.” -Ed.
 1148
 The Seventh row.
 1149
 lah.
 1150
 Lesgomph.
 1151
 Asco, with a prick ouer the o, is to be pronownced as Asto.
 1152
Vnam.
 1153
 Note this Mysterie of god his powre drawn to him self agayne.
 1154
 Magnus Magnus Magnus: “Great, Great, Great.” -Ed.
 1155
 Locus . . . Deo: “A place consecrated and acceptable to God.” -Ed.
 1156
 Of the first character of Vlla, I dowt.
 1157
 Ex.
 1158
 The V has an umlaut in the manuscript. -Ed.
 1159
 Sem.
 1160
 Vdráh.
 1161
 Iohed. gohed, pronownced as Iohed, signifieth One euerlasting and all things descending uppon one,
 and gohed Ascha is as much to say as One god.
 1162
 Canse, signifieth mightie: and Cruscanse, more mightie.
 1163
 All these which haue lines under them [Here they are hyphenated. -Ed.] are eche but one word of
 diuerse syllables: being 9 words of them.
 1164
 The a produced.
 1165
 The last h remissly sownded.
 1166
 This word is circled in the manuscript.
 1167
Pola and Pala signifie two: Pola signifieth two together, and Pala signifieth two separated.
 1168
 ΔThis was a parcell of a row, which onely appered by him self.
 1169
 In margin, but later crossed out: Δ At ‘no.’, ende 49, and so here ar 10 over.
 1170
 “á” must be sownded long.
 1171
 This “se” is the nine and fortyth word longing to them before.
 1172
 Vns.
 1173
 “A” long.
 1174
 Sey.
 1175
 Danset.
 1176
 this with a prick betokeneth “y.”
 1177
 Pronownce “Asto.”
 1178
 Pansu.
 1179
 Musse
 1180
 ó long.
 1181
 Aske. E.K. understode the Language: and wold haue spoken somwhat, but he was willed to stay.
 1182
 Orate: “Pray.” -Ed.
 1183
Pronownce as we do cruse a cup.
 1184
 ó long.
 1185
 Kidmap.
 1186
 Sempiternall One and indiuisible God.
 1187
 Dansét.
 1188
 A
 very long.
 1189
 Gras.
 1190
 a reverent word, the first ‘a’ very long, and is, be it made with powre.
 1191
 Ahal, iently, and the ‘a’ long.
 1192
 “A” long.
 1193
 Orate: “Pray.” -Ed.
 1194
 The diuine powre creating the angel of the sonne.
 1195
 4 manner of constructions in that one word.
 1196
 A-ro is one word diuided, as res-publica, and here this word is diuided into two squares, and so
 there are 49.
 1197
 E long.
 1198
 Life lephe lurfando
 is a strong charge to the wicked to tell the truth: Δ This he sayd to my demand of
this phrase wherof I had mention many yeres since.
 1199
 A long.
 1200
 Pronownce “ar.”
 1201
 NA- The name of the Trinitie, One separable for a while.
 1202
 “A” long; onely one “a” sownded for “aa.”
 1203
 Orka.
 1204
 “ä” sounded as “au.”
 1205
 The ‘g’ not expressly sownded.
 1206
 In eius loco. (“In this place.” -Ed.)
 1207
 It is but one word.
 1208
 Sownded, palef.
 1209
 Gloria . . . semper: “Glory be to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit now and forever.” -Ed.
 1210
 Bonum . . . es: “It is good, O God, for you are goodness itself.” -Ed.
 1211
 Et magnum . . . Magnitudinis: “And great because of the size of greatness itself.” -Ed.
 1212
 Sum . . . locus: “I am, and this place is, holy.” -Ed.
 1213
 Padohómaghebs.
 1214
Rede as arch.
 1215
 A piller of light stode before the boke.
 1216
 In margin, but crossed out: “Vin in vinco must be pronowced long as if it were a dubble i.”
 1217
 Arse.
 1218
 Or, gáscampho - why didst thow so: as god sayd to Lucifer. The word hath 64 significations.
 1219
 =cum humilitate aduocamus te cum adoratione Trinitas. (“[Befafes] with humility we call you, with
 adoration of the Trinity.” -Ed.)
 1220
 This is the name of the spirit contrary to Befafes.
 1221
 In margin: 
Befes, the vocatiue case of Befafes.
 Befafes ô, is to call uppon him as on god. Befafes oh, is as muche to say, ‘come Befafes and beare
 witness.”
 Also in margin: “Befafes his Etymologie is as much to say as, ‘Lumen a Lumine’. Spiritus orh
 secundus est in grada imperfectionis tenebrarum. = Δ. How can orh signifie ‘Deus sine fine’ if it be
 the name of a wicked spirit?” (Deus sine fine: “God without end”; Deus a Deo: “God from God”;
 lumen a lumine: “light from the light”; Spiritus orh . . . tenebrarum: “The spirit orh is the second in the
 scale of imperfections of darkness”; Deus sine fine: “God without end.” -Ed.)
 1222
 This word hath 72 significations.
 1223
 Of two syllables.
 1224
 Salus . . . vobiscum: “Welcome (lit. health) to you in him who is with you.” -Ed.
1225
 Larvandah.
 1226
 Δ Note these 55 wordes stand in 49 places: [ors lah, ama natoph, gedos lubah, vals mors] of which
 55, some two stand in a square place, some three, [surem paphe arbasa] as I haue noted.
 1227
 Iebne.
 1228
 Af.
 1229
 Bates.
 1230
 There are no points neyther in the last before. They be parcells of Invitations very pleasant to good
 Angels. Before was, as it were a preface of the Creation and distinction of Angels &c.
 1231
 Loghes.
 1232
 Orghen.
 1233
 Ghibúrod.
 1234
 Zimegafna.
 1235
 Askma.
 1236
 Daie.
 1237
 Deo . . . semper: “To our God, living, true, and almighty, be all praise and thanksgiving, now and
 ever.” -Ed.
 1238
 Quia . . . infinita: “Because God himself, God, our God, whose infinite mercy.” -Ed.
 1239
Iestes.
 1240
 Amaies.
 1241
 Vlsaie.
 1242
 This name comprehendeth the number of all the fayries - who are diuels next to the state and condition
 of man etc.
 1243
 Iedan.
 1244
 Famek.
 1245
 Iuma.
 1246
 Vanies.
 1247
 Akna.
 1248
 Maies.
 1249
 Detkel.
 1250
 Pagze. = iustitia a numine diuino sine labe. Δ (“Justice from divine power without defect.” -Ed.)
 1251
 Vlskan
 1252
 Ienzed.
1253
 Congamfilgh. = fide that reviveth mans brest, The holy ghoste. -Δ (Fide: “in faith.” -Ed.)
 1254
 Iesk.
 1255
 Hamies.
 1256
 Oxmoiel.
 1257
 Kadgama.
 1258
 Omsaie.
 1259
 Na.
 1260
 Sol.
 1261
 Maries.
 1262
 Lo.
 1263
 21, words hither.
 1264
 O long.
 1265
 In great letters.
 1266
 Δ Here are but 48 words: I dowt that there lacketh one.
 1267
 Zadketh.
 1268
Here seme to be to many by 3 or 4.
 1269
 Deo . . . gloria: “To God all good, all honor, praise, and glory.” -Ed.
 1270
 Expectas expectaui Dominum: “I waited patiently for the Lord” (Psalm 40:1/ Vulgate 39:1). -Ed.
 1271
 Take hede of Nettels.
 1272
 Perhaps the Jues shall be restored. -Δ. Dee sees “headless” as a metaphor for the fact that the Jews
 have no central authority like the Pope. Dee’s meaning is most likely to be that the vision is a
 prophecy that the Jews will be readmitted into England where they had been expelled in 1290/91.
 They were, in fact, readmitted into England in 1655 after petitions from Menasseh Ben Israel. See
 David S. Katz, Philo-Semitism and the Readmission of the Jews to England (Oxford: Clarendon
 Press, 1982), chapter three for details. There is more on this in his most recent book, The Jews in the
 History of England (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994). According to Dr. Katz (private
 communication), “Dee had good reason to think this might happen in his lifetime.” -Ed.
 1273
 Orate: “Pray.” -Ed.
 1274
 Interprete not yet.
 1275
 Zunah.
 1276
 Ag-zel-ia.
 1277
 Doxaniahad. one word.
 1278
 Fáma = I will giue.
 1279
 = I desire thee O god.
 1280
 Gaphned.
 1281
 This was put in and out a good while before EK could haue a perfect vew to rede it.
1282
 Nuleg.
 1283
 = The slymie things made of dust.
 1284
 Zoah. Δ Here seme to want 5 or 6 names.
 1285
 Nu-mech is two wordes.
 1286
 One word.
 1287
 These last two words are in one square.
 1288
 = The furious and perpetuall fire enclosed for the ponishment of them that are banished from the glory.
 One word of 7 syllables: 4 in the first part and 3 in the last.
 1289
 Zembloágaf.
 1290
 Lu = from one.
 1291
 Madna.
 1292
 Iel.
 1293
 Deo . . . saecula: “To God alone be all praise, honor, and glory, through endless ages upon ages.” -Ed.
 1294
 Sum: “I am.” -Ed.
 1295
 Sum quod sum: “I am that I am.” -Ed.
 1296
 Locat.
 1297
Nostah = it was in the begynning.
 1298
 Δ Here seme to lack 5 words.
 1299
 = Use humilitie in prayers to God, that is fervently pray. It signifieth, Pray into god.
 1300
 ∆ pronownce as che
 1301
 in chery.
 ∆ ratrugeem is one of the 7 words on the side of the Table first prescribed.
 1302
 = I will begynne a new.
 1303
 Note this covering to be made for the boke. = ∆. Sindall: “sendal, a thin light silk.” -Ed.
 1304
 Note this to be pronownced rowndly to gither.
 1305
 Gloriam . . . resonent: “May all creatures continually resound the glory and praise of our Creator.” 
Ed.
 1306
 Oratory: a small private chapel. -Ed.
 1307
 The manuscript has an “a” (or ∆?) over the second “e” in “veniet.” -Ed. 355 Veniet . . . sunt: “His
 voice will come, that he may tell the sons of men what is coming” Sloane 3677 also has an “a” over
 the second “e” of “veniet.” With this proposed amendment the statement would start: “May his voice
 come. . . ” -Ed. 356 Benedictus . . . Domini: “Blessed in he who comes in the name of the Lord.” -Ed.
 357 A prophesy very dreadfull now at hand.
 1308
 Spedily & reuerently.
 1309
 Uriel held up now the triangle of fire  .
 1310
 Those.
 1311
.
 Uriel now holding up the Ball of fire in his left hand, sayd as is here written: 
1312
 If from the first day of writing we accownt than from good friday the reckoning doth begynne: and so
 ende this.
 1313
 The Abridgment of time.
 1314
 Speaking to ∆.
 1315
 The danger thretned, if EK do not his dutie.
 1316
 Note a terrible thing.
 1317
 The ende of all.
 1318
 Ecce . . . suae: “Behold this servant and wretched little man; let it be to me whatever is most pleasing
 to his will.” -Ed.
 1319
 Note, by the place here before what measure in proportion of powr and understanding this was, in
 respect of the white ball of fyre.
 1320
 Jentlewoman: “noblewoman.” -Ed.
 1321
 Mistres Francis Haward elected to taste of god his great mercy for her charitable hart, &c.
 1322
 Forte Row.
 1323
 This was originally numbered 1, the next 2, and so on. These were each crossed out later and
 renumbered 49, 1, etc. See the note at the end of the 49th row. -Ed.
 1324
 ∆ forte: Asney.
 1325
 Iadeth.
1326
 I dowt which is n and which is u.
 1327
 A dowte whether “ar made” be two words or one.
 1328
 The following notes are found on a separate sheet of paper: -Ed.
 1329
 In margin at top of page: “solgars.” See TFR, p. 5, where “solgars” is prescribed as a cure. -Ed.
 1330
 ∆ Ω.
 1331
 This word is circled in the manuscript.–Ed.
 1332
 Here seme to be 50 names: and so, one to many.
 1333
 Here are but 38.
 1334
 Ce-.
 1335
 48.
 1336
 Here are 54.
 1337
 50 words.
 1338
 Admad.
 1339
 Sembeth.
 1340
 Lefe.
 1341
Here seme to be 50.
 1342
 Of the “n” and “u” of this word I dowt.
 1343
 At vom was a + to note the ende of a line: But both these mak but 49 names.
 1344
 51 words.
 1345
 Iemse.
 1346
 Vanket.
 1347
 48.
 1348
 Corrected from “ondanfaha.” -Ed.
 1349
 The copy had “ouhna.” I cowld not conjecture.
 1350
 Iea.
 1351
 An other boke: British Library, Sloane manuscript 3189 contains the bulk of the angelic book. -Ed.
 1352
 Polluted. -Ed.
 1353
 In marg.:  (“strong”). condemnatus: “condemned.” -Ed.
 1354
 Est: “He is.” -Ed.
 1355
 This note is on the reverse side of the following diagram. -Ed.
 1356
 Assay: “try.” -Ed.
 1357
They wer fownd at Huets Cross
 as the spirituall creature affirmed when he led them to the finding of
 this Moniment was & a boke of Magik & Alchimie. Perhaps that is the Cros called Huteos Cros being
 the fowrth of them below.
 1358
 Note J. Dee. The last being of the Danes here, was abowt the year 1040. (Tabula . . . effere: “The
 table of places of things and hidden treasures of Menabon, my Gordanil, soldier and banished prince
 of the Danes, and of many other famous men [in the southern part of Britain], and of native soldiers
 who fought against the same. With the agreement of closest friends I decided to hide this away and
 bury it for the convenience and help of our countrymen who may return at some time. By this when
 understood, they can easily bring [lit. expose] the hidden to light.” -Ed.)
 1359
 Of this  “k” I dowt yet.
 1360
 ∆ fortè Marr.
 1361
 Grotes: silver fourpence pieces used from the 14th to the 17th century. -Ed.
 1362
 Gyrning: “snarling.” -Ed.
 1363
 Avoyded: “departed.” -Ed.
 1364
 Note. Now 30 Tables being written since good friday: and days onely 21 passed since good friday.
 1365
 The stone out of the frame.
 1366
 ∆ as who shold say, αυτoζ ∈ψα, ipe dixit: nr Deus. -∆. (Autos . . . Deus: “he said himself, ʻour God.’
 ” -Ed.)
 1367
 Prepare all things.
 1368
 Good Angels.
 1369
 Fardel: “pack.” -Ed
 1370
Tyme of Iustification known than.
 1371
 The ende of our election.
 1372
 Tyll the very howre.
 1373
 Want of due reuerence using in our actions is reproved.
 1374
 Angels abase themselues, to pleasure man by theyr instructions, when they tak uppon them, or use any
 sensible evidence of themselves or voyces, &c.
 1375
 40 dayes.
 1376
 A.G. -∆. (Adrian Gilbert. -Ed.)
 1377
 Vox angelorum.
 1378
 Uriel putteth one into his place.
 1379
 Il or El.
 1380
 Gesture: “general behavior.” -Ed.
 1381
 Vulgarly: “commonly.” -Ed.
 1382
 Note, Threfold answer.
 1383
 Liber Arabicus. -∆. (“Arabic book.” -Ed.)
 1384
 This probably does not refer to the book Soyga. -Ed.
 1385
 EK he Kneleth down.
1386
 Lord Treasurer: William Cecil, Lord Burghley. -Ed.
 1387
 Note.
 1388
 In Sloane 3677, Ashmole notes: “1674 The Duke of Lauderdale hath a folio MS which was Dr. Dees
 with these words in the first page, Aldaraia sive Soyga vocor.” Literis transpositis: “by transposing
 the letters.” -Ed.
 1389
 The language towght in Paradise.
 1390
 Eve. -Ed.
 1391
 The Tower of Babel. See Genesis 11. -Ed.
 1392
 Enoch.
 1393
 Jude 14-15: “Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord
 cometh with ten thousands of his saints, to execute judgement upon all, and to convince all that are
 ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their
 hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.” This is quoted from 1 Enoch 1:9. See
 James H. Charlesworth, ed., The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, vol. 1 (New York: Doubleday,
 1983), pp. 12–13. -Ed.
 1394
 Note: excellent Memories, for Traditions contynuing and preseruing.
 1395
 ∆ forte: 18.
 1396
 Note, 28
 dayes more do make iust the 40 dayes, before notified.
 Esdras bokes. -∆. See II Esdras 14.37ff. -Ed.
 1397
 The Jues.
 1398
 ∆ this might seme to signifie the calling home of the Jues, A°. 1588 to come.
 1399
Note, El semed to be woman.
 1400
 Vice: “a character playing one of the vices in a morality play; jester.” -Ed.
 1401
 Varinus Phavorinus, Lexicon græcum (Rome, 1523). -Ed.
 1402
 Gariladrah.
 1403
 Since. -Ed.
 1404
 That was Uriel. Vide pag. precedent. -∆. (“See the previous page.” -Ed.)
 1405
 He pointed to EK.
 1406
 Thesaurus absconditus. -∆. (“Hidden treasure.” -Ed.)
 1407
 40 dayes.
 1408
 August.
 1409
 Knowledge to be infused Ictu Oculi. -∆. (Ictu Oculi: “with a stroke(or ray) of the eye.” -Ed.)
 1410
 Thesaurus abs.
 1411
 40.
 1412
 Note: till August.
 1413
 Lycence, licence: “legal permission.” -Ed.
 1414
 Without digging.
 1415
Ten places.
 1416
 Mary: a mild oath. -Ed.
 1417
 The chest.
 1418
 Braynford: “Brentford.” -Ed.
 1419
 Grecia:“Greece”; Anglia: “England.” -Ed.
 1420
 Anon: “soon.” -Ed.
 1421
 ∆ True it is, I had hidden there, in a capcase the recordes of my doings with Saule & other &c.
 1422
 The boke, The powder, the rest of the roll. -∆. This is the so-called Book of Saint Dunstan. -Ed.
 1423
 Amicorum . . . gloria: “Everything is shared between friends; therefore, to God alone are offered all
 praise, honor, and glory.” -Ed.
 1424
 Quinti Libri Mysteriorum Appendix: “Appendix to the Fifth Book of the Mysteries.” -Ed.
 1425
 Lease: “occupy.” -Ed.
 1426
 In Sloane 3677, EA reads “cumber.” -Ed.
 1427
 Cumbred: “obstructed.” -Ed.
 1428
 Railed at: “verbally abused.” -Ed.
 1429
 Sapientia. -Δ. (“Wisdom.” -Ed.)
 1430
 Voluntatem . . . deus: “He fulfils the desire of all who fear God” (misquoting Psalm 145:19). -Ed.
1431
 £s 300 det.
 1432
 Dextera Domini: “from the right hand of the Lord.” -Ed.
 1433
 Il: the first of the 7 sonns of sonns of light. -Δ (HM).
 1434
 Benedictus . . . Domini: “Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.” -Ed.
 1435
 1494–1555 German mineralogist and author. -Ed.
 1436
 Potichayre: “apothecary (?)” -Ed.
 1437
 Iovis omnia plena: “Jove fills all,” from Virgil’s Eclogues, III., 60, repeated in Giovanni Pontano’s
 astronomical poem Urania siue de stellis, Lib. 1.628. Note that Pontano is cited by Philip Sidney in
 his Defence of Poesia (London: Dent 1595; Rutland, VT: Tuttle, 1997). -Ed.
 1438
 De Lege Spirituali: “concerning the spiritual law.” -Ed.
 1439
 Non raro . . . obscuratur: “Furthermore, knowledge is obscured not rarely, through negligence, which
 is committed in the working of anything.” -Ed.
 1440
 Corpus . . . perficere: “Body without mind, achieves nothing . . . ” -Ed.
 1441
 A remedy for the blyndness of EK at this instant.
 1442
 And so many dayes yet wanted of the 40, yf we accownt from the 6 day of Aprill: but if from the tyme
 of the begynning I wrote them, then there wanteth not so much as 9 or 10 dayes. -Δ. Cor Contritum . . .
 Cogitationi: “Contrite heart): Without a contrite heart it is impossible to be completely freed of
 malice and inferiority. And so I say, the heart crushes the threefold temperance of sleep, food, and
 bodily license. An excess and abundance of these others creates pleasure, but pleasure brings on
 distorted thoughts and in fact hinders prayer and proper thought.” -Ed.
 1443
 Soli . . . gloria: “To God alone be all honor, praise, and glory.” -Ed.
1444
 Nos. -Δ. (“We/Cls.”–Ed.)
 1445
 Δ Here I mist the hering of a word or more.
 1446
 Nota et Caue -Δ. (“Note this and beware.”–Ed.)
 1447
 Election confirmed.
 1448
 One of us is by the Lord confirmed in constant purpose.
 1449
 Δ I think “sayeth the Lord” is forgotten here.
 1450
 Note.
 1451
 Note.
 1452
 Vengeance cryed for.
 1453
 Non nobis . . . perpetuum: “Not for ourselves, O Lord, not for ourselves, but for the glory of your
 name, we give and we will give all praise and honor, forever” (Psalm 115:1). -Ed.
 1454
 The mysticall Alphabet.
 1455
 The Table of Practise.
 1456
 Illuding spirits thrusting in themselues.
 1457
 I understand that the characters are most untrue.
 1458
 Δ The Inner square, of 6 ynches.
 1459
Δ vide post foliam, et etiam in Tabula cordis carnis et cutis, nam in lineis defendentibus, ibidem
 habes hanc tabula hic incipiendo sed in primo omittendo l et accipiendo o. (“See on the next sheet,
 and also in the table of the heart, flesh, and skin, for in the surrounding lines, you have this table here
 commencing the same, but omitting ‘l’ at the start, and gaining ‘o’.”) Note: This note is written
 inverted above the diagram in very small script. There is a hand pointing to the first “o”in the top
 border. In fronte tabulæ: “in front of the table”; a sinistris: “on the left”; a dextra: “on the right”; iuxta
 pectus: “next to the chest.” -Ed.
 1460
 In fronte Tabulae. (“In front of the table” -Ed.)
 1461
 Forte med.
 1462
 (“Perhaps ‘med’”-Ed.)
 A sinistris. (“To the left.” -Ed.)
 1463
 Juxta pectus. (“Next to the chest.” -Ed.)
 1464
 A dextris. (“To the right.” -Ed.)
 1465
 Soli Deo . . . perennis: “To God alone be eternal praise.” -Ed.
 1466
 Note of the Square within.
 1467
 Ternarius et Quaternarius. -Δ. Numero . . . operis: “In the numbers of the ternary and quaternary, from
 which is the beginning and the entire foundation of this, your most holy work.” -Ed.
 1468
 12, 7.
 1469
 Note of these kings and Princis.
 1470
 The dignity of the Table of practise.
 1471
 He alludeth to our talk had of Transposition of letters.
 1472
 Note, danger of violating precepts of doctrine.
1473
 Fortè s p. -Δ. The manuscript originally had “p s,” but these are crossed out and “s p” inserted. -Ed.
 1474
 Adam.
 1475
 A primo . . . nostri: “from the first. Δ: Which is the first and newest, Alpha and Omega, may he have
 mercy on us.” -Ed.
 1476
 Pied: “spotted or patched.” -Ed.
 1477
 Apparayle changed.
 1478
 An ænigmaticall lesson.
 1479
 Note.
 1480
 Three manner of works with God his Name.
 1481
 Vide inscriptiones suo loco, An. 1582, Martij die 10. f. 6. -Δ. (“See the inscription in its own place,
 10 March 1582, folio 6.”) Sigillum . . . gestandum: “Engrave this sigil in gold, for protecting the body
 in all places, times, and occasions: and to be worn on the chest.” -Ed.
 1482
 The Nature of all Characters.
 1483
 NOTE.
 1484
 Note here of the 7 Tables of Creation, how they apperteyn to the 7 kings and Princes.
 1485
 This boke of 48 Tables.
 1486
 Note of the Names of God.
 1487
Generation: corrup., incor. (“Generation: corruptible, incorruptible.” -Ed.)
 1488
 The Character allso was a falls tradition.
 1489
 Note.
 1490
 Lepidè, mathematicas meas demonstrationes deuolat. -Δ (“Neat! He endorses my mathematical
 demonstrations.”–Ed.)
 1491
 He meaneth my propre Character truely made.
 1492
 Note. These to be put in propre Characters.
 1493
 So, on my Character or lamyne of dignification: are all the names of the 7 kings, and of the 7 Princis,
 perfectly: as in the great Table, (called often tymes Mensa Faederis) the Bees, onely, (being the first
 letter common to them all) kept bak, in memory. -Δ (HM).
 1494
 Note, here, it may appere that Butmono is Prince to Bynepor, and Blisdon prince to King Bnaspol. -Δ
 (HM).
 1495
 Deo nostro . . . gloria: “Perpetual praise and unlimited glory be to our almighty God.” -Ed.
 1496
 The Title of the boke was Seuen Sobs of a Sorrowfull Sowle for Synne. -Δ. London: 1583. Hunnis’
 book consists of a translation of the Seven Penitential Psalms in rhyme.
 1497
 Astonied: “bewildered.” -Ed.
 1498
 Uriel.
 1499
 Note, sowles created before the bodies are begotten.
 1500
 Three elected.
 1501
Fortitudo in deo et propter deum. -Δ. (“Strength in God and because of God.” –Ed.)
 1502
 Temptation necessary.
 1503
 Pugna . . . victoria: “They will have fought, but victory will be yours.” -Ed.
 1504
 A perfect begynning.
 1505
 Sententia contra istum Malignum spirituum qui nobis inpenere voluit. -Δ (“A judgment against this
 evil spirit who wished to use us.” -Ed.)
 1506
 He spake to EK.
 1507
 Angelus malus proprius ipius EK. (“The wicked angel belonging to EK himself.” –Ed.)
 1508
 Diuels are accusers proprely.
 1509
 EK had byn carryed away in the wrath of God. If fervent prayer had not byn, as may appere in the
 begynning of this nights Action.
 1510
 The boke of this Prophesie shall contynue.
 1511
 = a malo Temptationis. -Δ. (“Against the evil of temptations.” -Ed.)
 1512
 Professio mea est Philosophia vera, vide Libro primo. -Δ. (“My profession is true philosophy. See
 Book 1.” -Ed.)
 1513
 Deo . . . perpetuum: “May all praise, honor, and thanksgiving be to our almighty God, now and
 forever.” -Ed.
 1514
 Beati . . . pacem: “Blessed feet, gospel of peace” See Romans 10.15. Quomodo vero praedicabunt
 nisi mittantur? sicut scriptum est: Quam speciosi pedes evangelizantium pacem evangelizantium
 bona!: “And how shall they preach, except they be sent? As it is written: How beautiful are the feet of
 them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!” This verse quotes from
Isaiah 52:7. Quam pulchri super montes pedes annunciantis et praedicantis pacem: annunciantis
 bonum, praedicantis salutem, dicentis Sion: Regnabit Deus tuus!: “How beautiful upon the mountains
 are the feet of him who brings good tidings, who publishes peace, who brings good tidings of good,
 who publishes salvation, who says to Zion: ’Your God reigns.’” -Ed.
 1515
 Per te Jesu Christe: “Through you, Jesus Christ.” -Ed.
 1516
 This Holy Book.
 1517
 The boke to be finished to morrow.
 1518
 The day appointed for the use of this Book. Augusti 1.
 1519
 Our nine dayes contrition preparatiue. -Δ. Note the Clavicula Salomonis prescribes a nine-day
 preparatory period before calling spirits that includes penitential prayers and abstaining from
 impurity. See S. L. Mathers, ed., The Key of Solomon the King (York Beach: Samuel Weiser, 1972
 repr. 1989), book 2, chapter 4. The magi (Zoroastrian priests) also undergo an elaborate nine-night
 purification ceremony (“Barashnum”) in order to prepare for higher religious ceremonies. –Ed.
 1520
 Angels sent to viset the heape of sinnes in the world abownding &c.
 1521
 Good Angels.
 1522
 The second of the greatest prophesie, is this.
 1523
 Our Testimony of this Prophesie, all the World ouer, to be (by us) published.
 1524
 Our bodyes to be made strong.
 1525
 Antichriste is allmost ready for his practise.
 1526
 40 dayes more for the tables writing in their own Characters.
 1527
 The frute of this boke.
1528
 The backside of my Character.
 1529
 The use of the stone which a good Angel browght to me the last yere: remember it is half an inche
 thik.
 1530
 The 4 hollow fete of the Table.
 1531
 HM reads “must.” -Ed.
 1532
 The use of the Table of practise is onely for one Month.
 1533
 Vide sup. A°. 1582 Maij 4.
 1534
 Great long iornayes to be gon of us two.
 1535
 The Cullor of the silk for the Table.
 1536
 On the first of August next.
 1537
 Δ So they seeme to haue byn ment in the figure of the Table of practise before described.
 1538
 The Princis here not put next to their kings.
 1539
 Note. 4 diuerse Wayes.
 1540
 A Secret of preeminence due to the Kings &c: as in Astrology. I use to mak every planet a base or a
 grownd in his propre signification &c., & so every howse of the 12 &c. in respect of his proper and
 severall signification.
 1541
 P. 85. -E.A.
 1542
The Symbolism of my name, in my character, how and where.
 1543
 Princeples.
 1544
 Δ perhaps somewhat like this:
 1545
 The man in the myddest of the globe or circle.
 1546
 Tables.
 1547
 The 7 ensignes of creation.
 1548
 At the time of theyr call.
 1549
 The 7 ensignes to be paynted on the Table.
 1550
 Supra. -Δ. (“Above.” -Ed.)
 1551
 Befafes.
 1552
 A.G.
 1553
 Supra.
 1554
 The last Ternarie.
 1555
 Three times.
 1556
 Vide supra pagina precedente. -Δ. (“See above on the previous page.” -Ed.)
 1557
 The 7 characters of the 7 kings as on the formar page is Babalel, Liba, &c.
 1558
Expedition. -Δ. (“Expeditiousness.” -Ed.)
 1559
 Journey. - Ed.
 1560
 How the Threasor is to be used.
 1561
 The Skroll, The Boke, The red powder.
 1562
 Albertus Laski, Palatinus Siradiensis venit ex Polonia Londinum 1583 Maij initio. -Δ. “Albert Laski,
 the Palatine of Sieradia (Sieradz), came from Poland to London in early May, 1583.” The Polish
 prince Albertus Laski visited London on 1 May 1583. At the Queen’s command, he was received with
 much honor. He visited Dee on 15 June along with Philip Sidney. The prince was so impressed with
 Dee and Kelley that they were invited to Lasco, the prince’s seat near Krakow. They left with their
 wives and families on 21 September 1583. Laski plays a major role in Dee’s subsequent actions. -Ed.
 1563
 Δ My good Angel.
 1564
 Hereby may many other answers be considered.
 1565
 Multa nobis perpetienda propter Deum nostrum Omnipotentem. -Δ. (“Our great suffering near for our
 almighty God.” -Ed.)
 1566
 Note The Quene of Scotts to be behedded. So she was A°. 1587 at Fodringam Castell. And allso the
 same yere a great preparation of ships against England by the King of Spayn, the Pope and other
 Princis called Catholik, &c.
 1567
 Gloria . . . Aeterno: “Everlasting glory be to our God, almighty and eternal.” - Ed.
 1568
 The Erthes.
 1569
 The boke.
 1570
 The shepe under the Table.
 1571
Verus . . . sempiternus: “True and holy and everlasting.” -Ed.
 1572
 A Temptation permitted by God.
 1573
 Pereant . . . Tenebrarum: “May darkness perish with the Prince of Darkness.” -Ed.
 1574
 Temptations & hinderances.
 1575
 The forme of the boke committed to my discretion.
 1576
 Δ Fortè Annaël.
 1577
 Misericordia Dei. -Δ. (“God’s mercy.” -Ed.)
 1578
 Actum est: “It has been done.” -Ed.
 1579
 NOTE.
 1580
 Justice.
 1581
 fiat: “Let it be so.” -Ed.
 1582
 The boke.
 1583
 Note.
 1584
 Jubilate . . . versamini: “Rejoice in God all ye dwelling on the Earth.” This is reminiscent of several
 Psalms. -Ed.
 1585
 The Erthes.
 1586
 This “a” was sownded to the ende of pinzu as we use in english balads, as with this word down is
sownded as downa, down a down a, &c.
 1587
 Michael: Gravida . . . tremulis: “Michael: The earth is pregnant and struggles with the iniquities of
 the enemies of light. It is therefore accursed, because it is in the womb of damnation and darkness.
 Uriel: It is filthy and offensive to us. Raphael: It scourges itself by its own shaking.” -Ed.
 1588
 Rap: Veh dicit . . . Fiat: “Raphael: He says ‘veh,’ but it is not what he hears. We have seen
 lamentation, but he doesn’t feel misery. May we be sanctified therefore, his holy one, because we are
 sanctified in that one. Michael: Let it be so.” -Ed.
 1589
 Nova. -Δ. Transeunt . . . nova: “The old ways cease, the new begin.” -Ed.
 1590
 Just.
 1591
 Peccatorum remissio. -Δ. (“Remission of sins.” -Ed.)
 1592
 Quae . . . gradu: “which they are now in the highest degree.” -Ed.
 1593
 The Thorny path sup. 24 March.
 1594
 Angeli iniusti, respectu Justiciae Divinae. -Δ. (“Unrighteous angels, with respect to Divine
 Righteousness.” -Ed.)
 1595
 Mercy.
 1596
 Decedant . . . pereant: “May the wicked depart and perish.” -Ed.
 1597
 De Vita . . . possit?: “Regarding the life of Stephen, King of Poland, what can be said?” -Ed.
 1598
 An successor . . . Austriaca?: “Will his successor be Albertus Laski, or from the House of Austria?” 
Ed.
 1599
 An Albertus . . . Moldauiæ?: “Will Albertus Laski, Palatine of Sieradia, have the kingdom of
 Moldavia?” -Ed.
1600
 ....................... require none at Gods hands in this Case.
 1601
 Note, we shalbe called upon.
 1602
 Albertus Lasky.
 1603
 The dead man.
 1604
 Prophetia de regno Alberti a Lasky, sed ipe noluit constanter se convertere ad Deum et adherere Deo,
 &c. (“A prophecy of the rule of Albertus Laski, but he himself has been constantly unwilling to
 convert himself to God and adhere to God.” -Ed.)
 1605
 Fornication.
 1606
 Justa facienda. (“Just cause.” -Ed.)
 1607
 This phrase is heavily underlined in the manuscript. -Ed.
 1608
 Perswasion, Δ.
 1609
 Alb. Lasky ¶
 1610
 Alb. Lasky his name, in one boke with our names.
 1611
 . . . rie bones . . . be . . . to.
 1612
Faces marked.
 1613
 Forte: “They that.” -E.A.
 1614
 The Cumpany for the mines royall, which had made A.G. and me a lease for Deuonshire mynes, &c.
 1615
 Forte: “done.” -E.A.
 1616
 Δ we were called to dynner often so he ended.
 1617
 Semper . . . sequiter: “May the Trinity in Unity, our eternal and almighty God, be ever blessed. Amen.
 Here follows the Sixth Book of the Mysteries (and holy), parallel, and of a new land.” -Ed.
 1618
 R: “here folowithe the makinge off the seale off the trwe and lyuinge god.”
 1619
 Deest S.
 1620
 S: “intret.”
 1621
 S: “y.”
 1622
 S adds: “e.”
 1623
 S: “t.”
 1624
 R has “w,” but has “n” supra linea.
 1625
 R (sup. lin.): “t.”
 1626
 Deest S.
 1627
 R has “x,” but has “s” supra linea.
1628
 R: “n,” S: “x” (?).
 1629
 R: “t.”
 1630
 R has “v,” but has “t” supra linea.
 1631
 R (sup. lin.) adds “p.”
 1632
 R ends “yleotsyma.” Sloane 313: “htoexorahala/ yqciystalga∧a onosularitckspfyo/ mo (sup. lin:
 e)mau (sup.lin. x) aremlarclatcdaccnonaorleyot.“
 1633
 S: “istæ.”
 1634
 S: “æque.”
 1635
 Sloane 313: “nominate.”
 1636
 R: “schemhamphoras,” S: “shemhamphorash,” Sloane 313: “semamphoras.”
 1637
 R adds “hoc.”
 1638
 Deest R; S: “et sub nomen aliud dei sz.”
 1639
 Sloane 313 omits this diagram.
 1640
 S: “inferiorem.”
 1641
 Sl. 313 adds “super nomine.”
 1642
 R: “.l.h.,” Sloane 313 reads “l . et . x .”
 1643
R omits “istas duas.”
 1644
 R omits “istas duas”; Sloane 3854 adds: “.l.a. et in alio post istum .l.c. Et in alio post istum.”
 1645
 S: “.v.m.”; In Sloane 313 this phrase reads: “scribe illas 2. literas. l. et . x . et infra alium angulum
 dextrum istas 2. literas . a . l . et in alio post istum . l . a . et in alio post istum . l . c . et in alio post
 istum . n . m . ut hic post in figura deorsu~ in marg .. in ...”
 1646
 S: “heptagonum.”
 1647
 R: “.l.h.”
 1648
 S: “heptagoni.”
 1649
 R: “scante.”
 1650
 R omits “casziel ... quod est.”
 1651
 S: “heptagoni.”
 1652
 R: “sunt.”
 1653
 S: “adimpleti.”
 1654
 S: “heptagonu~.”
 1655
 S: “heptagonu~.”
 1656
 Sloane 313, S: “non q° m° primus factus est sed.”
 1657
 R: “incarceret.”
 1658
Deest R.
 1659
 S: “primus.”
 1660
 Deest R.
 1661
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1662
 Deest R.
 1663
 S: “angulo.”
 1664
 R, S: “quæ.”
 1665
 R, S: “sequntur.”
 1666
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1667
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1668
 Deest R.
 1669
 S: “supra.”
 1670
 R: “scaneti.”
 1671
 S: “scribantur.”
 1672
 S: “praedicti.”
 1673
 R: “hac,” S: “hæc.”
 1674
Deest R.
 1675
 R adds “de.”
 1676
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1677
 S: “a.”
 1678
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1679
 S: “hoc sanctum nomen dei.”
 1680
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1681
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1682
 Deest R; S: “hæ.”
 1683
 R: “dua”; S: “duæ.”
 1684
 S: “.c.h.”
 1685
 Deest R.
 1686
 S: “illud.”
 1687
 S: “tercia.”
 1688
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1689
 S reads simply: “tendit a 3°.”
 1690
R, S: “hæc.”
 1691
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1692
 Sloane 3854 adds in margin: “i~ illo.”
 1693
 Text between * deest in Sl.3854
 1694
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1695
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1696
 S reads simply: “quod est a 5ta cruce.”
 1697
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1698
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1699
 R, S: “hæc.”
 1700
 S: “exagoni.”
 1701
 S: “exagoni.”
 1702
 S: “quartum.”
 1703
 Deest R.
 1704
 S: “sanctum.”
 1705
 R adds “dei.”
 1706
Sloane 313: “lyalg”; S: “lialg.”
 1707
 R: “quid”; S: “qi.”
 1708
 Deest S.
 1709
 Deest S.
 1710
 R: “volitum.”
 1711
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1712
 S: “sanctum.”
 1713
 Sloane 3854: “aliud dei sacrum”; Sloane 313: “ad nm dei sacru~.”
 1714
 Sloane 3854: “ucham
 1715
 Sloane 3854: “ue
 .”
 ”; S: “Ne” (?).
 1716
 Deest R, S.
 1717
 S: “hexagon.”
 1718
 S: “sanctum.”
 1719
 S: “hæc.”
 1720
 R: “in alla.”
 1721
 S: “lateris eiusdem.”
 1722
S: “supra.,”
 1723
 R: “latere.”
 1724
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1725
 S: “dexteris.”
 1726
 S: “Avs” (?).
 1727
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1728
 S: “dexteris.”
 1729
 Sloane 313: “duynas”; S: “dvynas.”
 1730
 R: “Granl.”
 1731
 Sloane 313, S: “et in alio .ω.”
 1732
 S: “est sub angulo primo 2i et 3i hexagonoru~.”
 1733
 S: “angulo.”
 1734
 S: “hexagonorum.”
 1735
 Deest R, SI.313.
 1736
 R, S: “itarum.”
 1737
 R: “sequenti”; S: “5ta.”
 1738
R: “sequenti”; S: “6ta.”
 1739
 R: “alio.”
 1740
 S: “spaciolo.”
 1741
 S: “claditur.”
 1742
 Deest R.
 1743
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1744
 S: “hexagoni.”
 1745
 R: “scilicet”; S: “si.”
 1746
 S: “A.”
 1747
 S: “dexte=/is.”
 1748
 Deest R.
 1749
 S: “A.”
 1750
 S adds “alia.”
 1751
 R adds “dei.”
 1752
 S: “Ely.”
 1753
 S: “Eloy.”
 1754
S: “Sother.”
 1755
 R: “ADONAL”
 1756
 R: “quod communiter in exemplaribus.”
 1757
 R: “primu~.”
 1758
 S: “hextagonus.”
 1759
 Sloane 313, SI.3854 omit “de maximum ac venerabile.”
 1760
 R: “alio.”
 1761
 R, S: “at.”
 1762
 R: “vituluio.”
 1763
 Sloane 313: “aut.”
 1764
 R: “par.”
 1765
 S: “sequntur.”
 1766
 Sloane 3854: “libro sacro” ; S: “saco”; Sloane 313: “libello ∧ sacro.”
 1767
 S: “talitur.”
 1768
 S: “seqitur.”
 1769
 R: “hoc.”
 1770
R: “Dexit.”
 1771
 R, S: “hoc.”
 1772
 R omits “sic placuit creatori.”
 1773
 S: “dominus ipsum.”
 1774
 S: “polutus.”
 1775
 R: “scriptus.”
 1776
 R: “suffumigetr.”
 1777
 S: “postea.” In the margin of Sloane 313, there is a drawing of a hand pointing out the passage which
 is very similar to Dee’s.
 1778
 Deest S. In Sloane 313 it is written surpa linea.
 1779
 Deest Sloane 3854.
 1780
 R: “tamen”; S: “tantum.”
 1781
 R: “hoc.”
 1782
 R: “digue ris.”
 1783
 R: “et.”
 1784
 S: “tali”; Sloane 3854: “tal.”
 1785
 S: “cælestes.”
1786
 S: “convincere.”
 1787
 R: “terreac.”
 1788
 R: “transmittaere.”
 1789
 S: “congregare.”
 1790
 R, S: “suas”; Sloane 313: “meas vel suas.
 1791
 S: “graciosi.”
 1792
 ”
 R: “dum”; S: “domine” (?); Sloane 313: “deuiu–.” (?)
 1793
 Sloane 3854: “agnoscere.”
 1794
 Deest R.
 1795
 S: “chirothechas”; Sloane 313: “cirothecas.”
 1796
 R: “posuit.”
 1797
 Sloane 3854: “sacrosct~m”; S: “sacosctmus.” (?)
 1798
 S: “heptagonus.”
 1799
 S: “designant.”
 1800
 For a critical edition see Joseph Peterson, The Lesser Key of Solomon (York Beach, ME: Weiser
 Books, 2001), pp. 57—108.
 1801
This form of the introduction is thus to be varied depending on the office, place and number thou
 wishest to conjure.
 1802
 For a critical edition see Joseph Peterson, The Lesser Key of Solomon (York Beach, ME: Weiser
 Books, 2001), pp. 109—45.
 1803
 For a critical edition see Joseph Peterson, The Lesser Key of Solomon (York Beach, ME: Weiser
 Books, 2001), pp. 147—54.
 1804
 Psalm 67.
 1805
 Psalm 54.
 1806
 Psalm 51.