
 
5
 CONTENTS
 Howto use this book ...................................................................... 6
 Section 1
 The PrinciplesofMakingSpells .............................. 9
 Section 2
 Getting the Best from your Spells ............................ 29
 Section 3
 TheSpells Compendium.......................................................... 51
 Health and healing............................................................................................ 53
 Love and relationships...................................................................................... 87
 Money, finance, wealth and luck............................................................119
 Business, career and decision making ......................................................145
 Protection..............................................................................................................173
 Conclusion..................................................................................................206
 Index................................................................................................................207
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
How to use this book
 There are three main sections in this book: The Principles of
 Making Spells, Getting the Best from your Spells and the
 Spells Compendium.
 The principles of making spells
 In this first section, we look at what a spell actually is and at the different
 types we can use. We look first at love spells, bidding spells, blessings, healing
 spells, invocations and incantations and why we might use each type. Next we
 look at the role of the Elements – Earth, Fire, Air and Water – and finally at
 different types of spell working. This encompasses working with:
 • ELEMENTAL ENERGY
 • CANDLES 
• COLOUR
 • CRYSTALS
 • HERBS
 • KNOTS
 • REPRESENTATIONS OF OBJECTS
 • SYMBOLS SUCH AS RUNES AND OGHAM STAVES
 • TALISMANS, AMULETS AND CHARMS
 Lastly we consider the ingredients and tools we need in spell-working. These
 are those items you will need to include in your working area or sacred space.
 • YOUR TOOLS, ACCORDING TO YOUR OWN BELIEFS
 • CANDLES AND HOW TO ‘DRESS’ OR PREPARE THEM
 • CRYSTALS TO USE
 • HERBS AND PLANT RESINS, BOTH AS DECORATION AND INCENSES
 • LIQUIDS YOU MIGHT USE, SUCH AS WATER OR FRUIT JUICE
 Getting the best from your spells 
Once you have a clear idea of what casting a spell entails, you will want to
 perform it under the best possible conditions. There are many ways of doing
 this, and this section gives you clear instructions on which you can base your
 own individual practice.
 First there is personal preparation and you learn about ritual baths and how
 to tailor them to your needs. Then comes consecrating your sacred space, which
 consists of (usually) setting aside a part of your home where you feel safe and
 unthreatened. We give a way of ‘clearing’ that space ready for the next step,
 which is setting up your working area.
 For many, this means setting up an altar which can be left in position
 permanently, but for others such a place has to be dismantled at the end of
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 6
every working, and for yet others the sacred space cannot be a permanent one.
 We suggest ways of dedicating your altar or working surface.
 Those objects which you normally need to include in your working – such
 as your candle sticks, altar furnishings etc. – will also need to be consecrated
 (dedicated to the purpose) as indeed will any tools that you use such as your
 athame (magical knife) and wand if you choose to use one. Before that you
 must learn how to cast your circle and we show you how to do this.
 The second part of this section gives you the information you need to make
 use of astrological correspondences and planetary influences. Each star sign has
 a particular influence which it exerts on us and what we do, and learning how
 to use these influences to the best of our ability maximises our spell making and
 gives a good deal of extra power when it is needed.
 Each day and each hour is ‘ruled by’- receives a particular influence from
the planets and we share this knowledge with you so that you can make decisions
 regarding the maximum influence you need. If you are looking for expansion,
 for instance, you would use the influence of the planet Jupiter. Many spell
 workers prefer to use the night time hours to work in, not necessarily because
 it is dark, but because it is quiet and the ‘hours’- divisions of time- are often
 longer than our normal sixty minutes. We explain how this comes about.
 While we mentioned colour magic in the first section, by learning a little
 more about the use of colour correspondences we can again enhance the work
 we do. We have included a short list to help you. Words of power are used
 in many traditions and we give some examples. There is a tremendous amount
 to learn and to remember but gradually you will find that you settle down
 into an accepted way of working and will begin to use any or all of the above
 knowledge almost instinctively. The trick is to take things slowly and add one
 new bit of knowledge as you become more proficient.
 The last part of this section gives you information on collecting and assembling
 ingredients and equipment and some tips on choosing the right words.
 The spells compendium 
The final part of this book is in effect a grimoire - a collection of spells under
 various headings - to make it easy to consult. Each spell has an introductory
 paragraph with information as to what type of spell it is, the best time to carry
 it out if possible and which discipline it comes from if known.
 We then tell you what you will need: candles, incense, special tools or objects,
 then give you the method to use. Some spells require incantations, some invocations
 and others simple actions to make them work, and this is laid out for you. 
Lastly there is a short paragraph which tells you what you might expect,
 though as always we would remind you that results can sometimes be
 unexpected, or indeed not take place at all!.
 The five sections are Health and Healing, Love and Relationships, Money,
 Finance, Wealth and Luck, Business, Career and Decision Making and
 Protection.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 7
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
Section 1
 The
 Principles 
of
 Making Spells
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 What is a spell?
 In ancient pagan communities the elders, or wise ones, had, by
 their very experience, an awareness of custom and a firm grasp of
 what had previously worked when trying to gain control over
 Mother Nature and other powers they did not fully understand. They
 had access to certain knowledge (and therefore power) that was not
 readily available to the ordinary individual.
 The ancients recognized that words spoken in a certain way according to
 custom seemed to have more of an effect than those spoken on the spur of the
 moment. As a consequence, their words would have more power, yet the same
 words spoken by the uninitiated or those who did not understand did not
 seem to have the same result.
 There are three important aspects when reciting a spell. The first is that
 words spoken with intensity and passion do have a power all of their own.
 The next is that the speaker also has a power and an energy which, with
 practice, he or she may learn to use effectively. The third component, the forces
 and powers belonging to that which is ‘beyond the human being’ also have a
 tremendous power and are called upon, used or directed for a specific purpose.
 The use of all three of these aspects gives a very powerful spell indeed.
 There are several kinds of spell, each of which requires a different approach:
 Love spells
 Many people, when thinking of spells, think of love spells - ways of making
 another person find them sexually attractive and desirable. In theory, love spells
 should be unconditional and this type should be entirely unselfish and free
 from self-interest. However, most of the time they obviously cannot be so,
 unless they are performed by a third party, someone outside the longed-for
 relationship who is totally dispassionate.
 To try to influence someone else directly may well go against the ethics of
 many practitioners and magicians, though such spells do tend to be the stock
in-trade of many Eastern practitioners. Anyone who wishes to experiment
 with love spells needs to be aware that such spells come under the heading of
 bidding spells and therefore must be used carefully. Love spells are often
 accompanied by gifts or love philtres which are also meant to have an effect on
 the recipient.
 Bidding spells
 These are spells where the spell-maker commands a particular thing to happen,
 but without the co-operation of those involved. Trying to make someone do
 something which they do not want to do, or which goes against their natural
 inclination, obviously requires a great deal of power and energy and can
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 10
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 possibly misfire, causing the originator of the spell a good deal of difficulty.
 For this reason it is wise to preface such spells with words to signify that the
 outcome will only be in accord with the Greater Good - that is, that in the
 overall scheme of things no-one will be harmed in any way whatsoever. This
 ensures that the intent behind the spell is of the purest and that there is not
 any maliciousness within the practitioner. This does mean that an able and
 responsible practitioner must choose their words carefully, even when they are
 not casting a spell.
 One type of bidding spell that is allowable is when a curse or ‘hex’ is being
 removed. A hex is a spell that ill-wishes someone and in many cases binds the
 recipient in some way. A curse is a spell with a much more generalized effect.
 To remove such a negative spell, it is usual to turn it around and send the
 malign energy back to the person who summoned it in the first place. You
 simply command the energy to return from whence it came.
 Blessings
 These might be counted either as prayers or spells and need a passionate
 concentration on bringing, for instance, peace of mind or healing to the
 recipient. They hold no danger for the practitioner but are sometimes more
 difficult to appreciate since they tend to be more general than other types of
 magical work. They may be thought of in terms of a positive energy from
 beyond the practitioner being channelled towards a specific purpose.
 Saying Grace is a form of blessing preceded by an offer of praise and a
 prayer of thankfulness, an acknowledgement of a gift. The food is enhanced
 by the act and the blessing is given by drawing on the power vested in the
 knowledgeable expert. Thus one practitioner may call on the Nature Gods
 whereas another might call on the power of Jesus Christ.
 Healing spells and charms
 Within this type of spell it is wise to go beyond the presenting symptoms and to
 ask for healing on all levels of existence - physical, mental and spiritual - because
 the practitioner may not have the knowledge or correct information to enable
 him to diagnose a condition correctly. The natural energies and specific vibrations
 are enhanced by invocations, incantations and blessings wherever appropriate.
 Frequently, objects such as crystals are charged with energy and power to
 focus healing or other energies in a quite specific way, often to remind the
 patient’s body of its own ability to heal itself.
 Invocations
 This calls on what is believed to be the ultimate source of power, which differs
 from spell to spell. Quite literally, it calls up that power and asks for permission
 to use this influence for a stated purpose. Meddling with this power and
 calling up negative forces is extremely unwise and very foolish.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 11
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 Spells for selfish personal power or to gain power over others will often
 backfire on the unwary and may cause damage to the individual who casts
 them. Invocations of positive forces can do no harm except that the results can
 sometimes be highly disconcerting due to the sheer energy created, although the
 eventual outcome may be good.
 The Incantation
 This type of spell prepares the magical worker and his helpers for further
 work by heightening their awareness. It does not set out to call up the powers,
 but appeals to gods, goddesses, powers of nature and so on for help.
 Chanting, prayer and hymns are in many ways incantations, particularly
 when the intent is stated with some passion. An incantation is often very
 beautiful and rhythmic. Music has always been an efficient way of heightening
 awareness and altering states of consciousness.
 The Elements
 In most systems of magical working you will find mentioned the four (or
 sometimes five) Elements, often in conjunction with their directions or, as they
 are known in magic, quarters of the Universe or cardinal points. Together and
 separately they are extremely powerful sources of energy and can give a
 tremendous boost to your spell making.
 The four Elements are energies, and manifestations of energy, that make up
 the entire Universe. They also influence our personalities and therefore what
 we do. Magical working calls to each Elemental kingdom and its ruler to
 protect each cardinal point and its properties. Each Element has an intrinsic
 power and is known for having certain qualities, natures, moods and magical
 purposes. Each also has positive and negative traits.
 The four Elements are Earth, Air, Fire and Water and you may well find
 that you work best using one of them in particular. People drawn to candle
 magic, for instance, are using mainly the Element of Fire, while those who
 work with incense are using Air with a fair smattering of Earth in the herbs
 and resins.
 The fifth Element is that of Spirit which is the ‘binding principle’ behind
 everything. Sometimes known as Aether, it is, on the whole, intangible, yet is
 that which makes everything happen. You are both its representative and its
 channel, so in using the other Elements in magical working you have a
 responsibility to act wisely and well.
 Earth
 Traditionally the direction of this Element is North and the colour normally
 associated with Earth is green. It is represented on the altar usually by salt or
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 12
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 sand. Crystals, because they are totally natural substances, can also be used.
 When invoking Earth and the powers of the North, you are looking for
 recovery and healing and perhaps trying to find answers to questions. These
 powers deal with gaining knowledge, blessing, creating and shielding. When
 working within a magical circle, this is the first corner or quarter on which
 you call for protection.
 The principal nature spirits of the Earth are called gnomes. They are said to
 live underground and guard the Earth’s treasures. Other groups within the
 Earth’s nature spirits ruled by the god Pan are brownies, dryads, earth spirits,
 elves and satyrs.
 Air
 The direction of this Element is East and the colour usually associated with it
 is yellow. Incense is often used to represent Air, since the movement of the air
 can be seen in the incense smoke.
 When you are looking for inspiration, need new ideas or perhaps to break free
 from the past or undesired situations, you would use this Element. The quality
 associated with it is that of thinking or the use of the intellect. When working
 in a magical circle, Air is the second quarter on which you call for protection.
 The sylphs are the Air spirits; their element has the most subtle energy of the
 four. They are said to live on the tops of mountains and are volatile and
 changeable. They are usually perceived with wings and look like cherubs or
 fairies. One of their tasks is said to be to help humans receive inspiration.
 Fire
 Fire is the Element of the South and is usually represented by a candle or a
 cauldron with a fire inside. Its colour is red and its associations are to do with
 power, determination and passionate energy.
 You would call upon this Element for protection from evil forces, cleansing
 and creativity. The quality associated with Fire is ‘doing’ and it is a male
 principle. It is the third quarter or cardinal point on which you call for
 protection when working in a magical circle.
 Without salamanders, the spirit of fire, it is said that physical fire cannot
 exist. They have been seen as sparks or small balls of light, but most often they
 are perceived as being lizard-like in shape and about a foot or more in length.
 They are considered the strongest and most powerful of all the elementals. As
 nature spirits they are greatly affected by the way that mankind thinks. Out of
 control, salamanders can be considered dangerous.
 Water
 Water is the Element of the West and is represented by a bowl of water or a
 goblet of wine or fruit juice. Its colour is blue and, because it represents the
 giving of life, is associated with the elements of sea, rain, snow and rivers.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 13
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 When you need cleansing, revitalizing, the removal of curses or hexes or
 change of any sort, you will call upon Water. It is to do with emotions, right
 through from the most basic passions to the most elevated forms of belief. It is
 predominantly feminine. It is the fourth and final quarter that you invoke in
 any magical circle.
 The undines are the elemental beings connected with Water and are
 beautiful and very graceful. The nymph is frequently found in a fountain and
 the mythical mermaid belongs to the ocean. Some undines inhabit waterfalls,
 others live in rivers and lakes. Sometimes smaller undines are often seen as
 winged beings that people have mistakenly called fairies.
 Spirit
 When you feel you are sufficiently adept at using the other Elements, you
 may begin to use Spirit - the fifth Element. This has no special space but is
 everywhere. It should never ever be used negatively because, particularly when
 you are weak and tired, it can rebound on you.
 You may well find that you instinctively link strongly with the Life Force
 as Spirit, in which case you are probably succeeding in bringing all the
 Elements together within yourself. There is no particular colour associated with
 Spirit - perception is all-important. If you choose to represent Spirit on the
 altar, you may do so however you wish. You are free to use your intuition
 and you must have a very strong awareness of your reason for choosing that
 particular symbol.
 Different types of spell working
 Elemental
 In this particular type of magic the Elements of Fire, Earth, Air and Water
 are given their own directional focus to create added power and give extra
 energy to your spells. You will no doubt find that you tend to favour one
 particular direction but should be able to use all of them.
 Colour
 Perhaps the simplest form of magic is that which involves colour. This method
 of working is also used in conjunction with various other forms of magic.
 Colour can enhance, alter and completely change moods and emotions and
 therefore can be used to represent our chosen goal. At its simplest it can be
 used alone and can be used in dressing an altar. We give some colour
 correspondences on pages 45-46.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 14
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 Herbal
 Herbal magic is often used alongside many other forms of magic. Used as
 talismans and amulets - for example in a pouch or bag - herbs become
 protective; the oil from herbs can also be used in candle magic. There are many
 different types of herbs available for use in this way. Each herb has its own
 specific use, but frequently is used along with many other herbs and oils to
 produce a desired result.
 Candle
 In candle magic, man discovered the ability to control light and this is one of
 the oldest forms of magic as well as one of the most simple. Using candles to
 symbolize ourselves and our beliefs means that we have access to a power
 beyond ourselves. Candle magic also forms an effective back-up for most other
 forms of magical working.
 Crystal
 Every stone or gem has its own attribute which can be used in magic. Crystals
 are used extensively in healing because of the vibrational impact they can have.
 Because of this, they lend themselves to the enhancement of any spell-making
 or magical working. Even ordinary stones have their own power and can be
 used as repositories for all sorts of energies and powers.
 Knot
 Knot magic works partly with the principle of binding, which is a type of
 bidding spell and also with that of weaving, which was traditionally a female
 intuitive occupation. It utilizes ribbon, rope, string, yarn, or anything that can
 be knotted or plaited to signify our aspiration. It is a type of representational
 magic, and is used in conjunction with many of the other forms. The
 techniques of colour, form and use of energies are all used in its practice.
 Representational
 Representational magic involves using an object that represents something or
 someone for whom you are working the spell. It helps in concentrating the
 energy and visualizing the desire and the end result. Representational objects
 should never be used for negative purposes.
 Symbolic
 In this system different symbols, rather than objects, are used to represent
 various ideas, people or goals. These symbols can be personal to you or such
 things as Tarot cards, Runes, Hebrew letters or numerology. You will often
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 15
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 use symbolic magic in your magical workings and will soon develop your own
 preferred symbols.
 Talismans, amulets and charms
 These devices use all the other forms of magic in their formation, but
 principally representational and symbolic magic. They are ‘charged’ (given
 power) magically and usually are worn or carried on the person for protection
 or good luck. Many are worn around the neck, perhaps as jewellery, or
 carried in a pouch and incorporate crystals, herbs or other magical objects.
 There are many types of each of these objects and you will gradually learn to
 differentiate between them.
 Ingredients and Tools
 Tools 
When performing your spells and magical workings, you will probably find
 that you tend to use some objects more than others. Below is a list of the ones
 that are most commonly used.
 ALTAR OBJECTS These is a general term for the objects that you place on
 your altar - candleholders, flower vases, crystals etc. - which do not necessarily
 have a specific magical use of their own - they are present to create an
 ambience. You should remember to dedicate them to the purpose in hand by
 presenting them to your chosen deity. Some may prefer to work according to
 Celtic tradition, Norse, Graeco-Roman or Wiccan.
 ATHAME By tradition, the athame is a ceremonial knife used especially in
 the performing of spells. It is not used for cutting of herbs and so on: its role
 is ceremonial - for example, indicating the quarters or directions. By tradition 
it should be of the best and purest metal available. Its handle is usually black
 and sometimes carved with magical designs and symbols. Many experienced
 magical practitioners consider that the most powerful athame is one which has
 been inherited.
 BESOM A besom is a different name for a broom, and is particularly
 associated with the easily recognisable so-called ‘witch’s broom’ of old. A
 particularly personal tool, it is often made specifically for the practitioner, from
 twigs from the tree of her choice. It is usually kept specifically to be used in the
 sacred space or circle - this time for cleansing - and is also used both symbolically
 and spiritually.
 BOLINE The boline as a knife traditionally used in cutting plants, herbs,
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 16
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 wands and other objects for magical workings. It is not the same as the athame
 which is purely ceremonial, but is akin to the gardener’s pruning knife as a
 useful, practical tool. It often has a white handle and a curved blade. It is
 consecrated because this is a way of honouring its purpose.
 BURINE A burine is a sharp pointed instrument used for inscribing candles
 and other magical objects with symbols, words and pictures in order to make
 spells more effective. In many ways, it is more effective than either the boline
 or the athame and is seen much more as an instrument which pierces a surface
 rather than cuts it.
 CANDLES are such an integral part of a spell makers work that they have
 become a whole branch of magic all their own. They represent the element of
 fire, but also light. As explained in more detail later, various colours bring
 different things to magical workings and they are an important part of any
 ritual.
 CAULDRON Because cauldrons were easily disguised as cooking utensils in
 olden days, most people today tend to think of them as a large cast-iron pot.
 There has lately been a return to original materials and nowadays they can be
 made of almost anything. They are often of a size that can be stood on the
 altar, or in the sacred space. They are used mainly as containers for herbs,
 candles and other magical objects,
 CHALICE Used as a ceremonial drinking vessel, the chalice is sometimes
 made from precious metal, although it can also be made from glass. An elegant
 object, the chalice will usually be beautifully decorated with elaborate designs 
which may have magical significance - or jewels and gemstones.
 PAPER During spells we often need to write our wishes or aims down and
 it is good to have some paper ready prepared, Parchment type is best, but
 heavier good quality is also good. You consecrate it by holding it for a short
 period in the smoke from your favourite incense.
 PEN AND INK Traditionally, quill pens were used for writing spells and
 incantations, but if you can’t find a quill then use the best pen you can afford.
 Try to keep it especially for magical work and consecrate it by passing it
 carefully over the top of a candle or through incense. Also buy a good quality
 ink and, if not already formulated for magical purposes, consecrate that in the
 same way. Neither pen nor ink should be used for other purposes.
 PENTACLE The pentacle is a shallow dish which is usually inscribed with a
 pentagram - a five-pointed star. It is used as a ‘power point’ for consecrating
 other objects such as water or wine in a chalice, amulets and tools.
 PESTLE AND MORTAR The pestle and mortar are so symbolic of the
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 17
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 union of God and Goddess that they deserve a special mention within the use
 of magical tools. Mainly used to prepare herbal mixtures and incenses they can
 also become part of your altar furniture when consecrated.
 SCRYING TOOLS Scrying is the practice of using certain channelling tools
 which should be consecrated before use - such as crystals, mirrors, coloured
 water, runes etc - to try to gain an insight into external events. Any object can
 be used for scrying, though usually they are reflective, and they employ the
 arts of concentration and contemplation.
 STAFF The staff is used very frequently by practitioners today, particularly if
 they are of the Druidic persuasion. Longer than the wand, it has the same
 attributes and uses. A staff is deliberately fashioned for the practitioner from
 wood taken from sacred trees, such as oak, hawthorn and hazelnut.
 WAND The wand should be no longer than the forearm and is often made
 from sacred wood. Since this is a very personal object, it should be chosen
 carefully and equally carefully attuned to your own energies. It cannot be used
 magically until it has been consecrated.
 Candles
 We have already mentioned candle magic, but since candles are such an important
 part of magical working, they deserve a special mention. They should be chosen
 carefully with regard to type, and colour, depending on the purpose of the
 spell. It is often better to use your intuition when choosing the type of candle,
 although for ease of reference, below is a list of the principal types. There are
 other types available, but these are the most suitable for magical working.
 TABLE The most easily available candle, they are ideal for many of the spells
 in this book. They usually burn for between six to eight hours and do need to
 be properly seated in suitable candlesticks. All colours can be used, but they
 should not be dipped, except in exceptional circumstances, and should be of the
 best quality possible. It is sensible to keep a ready supply at hand.
 PILLAR This is a free-standing candle. It is usually in the shape of a simple
 pillar, although it can sometimes be made in other shapes which can be used as
 part of the spell, i.e. heart shapes for love spells. This type of candle is best
 burned on a flat holder since it usually takes some time to burn out.
 TAPER candles are tall and thin and need a particularly stable candle holder.
 They are either made in a mould, or by the traditional method of dipping a
 length of wick into hot molten white or coloured wax. For magical purposes
 they should be coloured all the way through. They can often be used when a
 quick result is required. Because they are quite fragile, you need to be careful
 not to break them when anointing them.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 18
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 TEA LIGHTS are excellent for use when a candle must be left to burn out,
 but are less easy to anoint with essential oils. Poured in small metal pots like
 small votives, they are normally used in oil burners or specially made tea light
 holders. Depending on their size, they usually burn for approximately four
 hours.
 VOTIVE candles are specially designed as offerings to carry prayers to
 whichever deity you honour. As the wax melts, the holder, which is made of
 glass, can become hot so some care must be taken when using them. They are
 designed to be long burning, usually between one to seven days.
 Things to remember when choosing a candle
 1. Choose your candle type as above.
 2. Candles used for magic should always be virgin (unused) at the start of the
 working, unless you have deliberately cleared them of past influences. Using
 candles that have been previously lit can have a detrimental effect on your
 spell. They may have picked up influences from previous use.
 3. Charge your candle before using it. This can be done by anointing it with
 oils associated with the magic you intend on performing, or by simply touching
 it and filling it with your own energy.
 4. The oils used in the anointing of your candle should, where possible,
 always be natural fragrances. Whilst charging the candle, smooth from top to
 bottom when drawing energy toward you, bottom to top when sending energy
 outwards. Particularly when anointing candles for altar use, anoint from the
 middle to the top and from the middle to the bottom to signify the union of
 spiritual and physical realms.
 5. If you enjoy craftwork, it is a very good idea to make your own candles
 for magical use. A whole art in itself, you infuse your candles with your own
 energy and thus increase the magical potency of the candle many times over. It
 is relatively easy to make your own candles: simply heat the wax until it is
 liquid and pour into a mould which is threaded with a wick. The wax should
 now be left to cool, after which the mould can be removed. Oils and colours
 can be added for extra potency.
 Many different colours are used in candle magic and overleaf are listed the
 most common ones, along with their key associations and purposes. You may
 not wish to use black candles because of their association with the darker side
 of magic. If so, dark grey is a good substitute.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 19
THEPRINCIPLESOFMAKINGSPELLS
 20
 WHITE can also be used if you
 chosen colour is not available)
 ••The Goddess
 ••Higher Self
 ••Purity
 ••Peace
 ••Virginity
 BLACK
 ••Binding
 ••Shape shifting
 ••Protection
 ••Repels negativity
 BROWN
 ••Special favours
 ••To influence friendships
 ••Healing Earth energies
 ORANGE
 ••General success
 ••Property deals
 ••Legal matters
 •• Justice
 ••Selling
 PURPLE
 ••Third eye
 ••Psychic ability
 ••Hidden knowledge
 ••To influence people in high places
 ••Spiritual power
 BLUE
 ••The Element of Water
 ••Wisdom
 ••Protection
 ••Calm
 ••Good fortune
 ••Opening communication
 ••Spiritual inspiration
 PINK
 ••Affection
 ••Romance
 ••Caring
 ••Nurturing
 ••Care for the planet Earth
 GREEN
 ••The Element of Earth
 ••Physical healing
 ••Monetary success
 ••Mother Earth
 ••Tree and plant magic
 ••Growth
 ••Personal goals
 RED
 ••The Element of Fire
 ••Passion
 ••Strength
 ••Fast action
 ••Career goals
 ••Lust
 ••Driving force
 ••Survival
 SILVER
 ••The Moon Goddess
 ••Astral energy
 ••Female energy
 ••Telepathy
 ••Clairvoyance
 •• Intuition
 ••Dreams
 COPPER
 ••Professional growth
 ••Business productivity
 ••Career manoeuvres
 ••Passion
 ••Money goals
 GOLD
 ••The Sun God
 ••Promote winning
 ••Male power
 ••Happiness
 YELLOW
 ••The Element of Air
 •• Intelligence
 ••The Sun
 ••Memory
 •• Imagination supported by logic
 ••Accelerating learning
 ••Clearing mental blocks
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 Crystals
 There are many crystals which can be used in magical workings. This is a
 brief list of some well-known ones which you may like to use. The list also
 gives some of the correspondences that are most often used in healing spells in
 particular. This is because it is much easier to charge a crystal with healing
 energy as tangible evidence within the physical plane of an intent. Many
 people do not wish it to be known that they are using healing energy on
 behalf of others, and this is an easy way of doing so unobtrusively.
 As you become more practised in spell making, you will discover for yourself
 that certain crystals resonate for you more than others.
 AGATE A member of the quartz family, it is a general healer, especially good
 for the self-esteem.
 AMETHYST A crystalline quartz, it helps with creative thinking and is also
 a protector against blood diseases, grief, neuralgia and insomnia. It is said to
 deal with drunkenness.
 AQUAMARINE A clear silicate, it is good for the eyes and helps against
 nerve, throat, liver, and stomach troubles.
 BLOODSTONE A dark green quartz flecked with red jasper, bloodstone
 strengthens the will to do good.
 CARNELIAN A translucent red or orange, carnelian makes the voice
 strong and is helpful when dealing with rheumatism, depression and neuralgia.
 CITRINE A form of crystalline quartz, citrine may bring greater control
 over the emotions and help blood circulation.
 EMERALD This dark green precious stone is a silicate. It improves the
 intellect and memory and may also help with insomnia.
 GARNET This is the name given to a group of gemstones of varying
 composition, ranging from a deep blood red through to orange. It protects
 against depression and helps with self-confidence and self-esteem.
 JADE Nephrite jade is a silicate with a green colour. It is beneficial when
 dealing with kidney complaints.
 JASPER A mixed type of quartz that can occur in various colours. It
 improves the sense of smell and helps liver, kidney and epileptic problems.
 LAPIS LAZULI A mixture of minerals having a deep blue colour, it often
 contains particles of ‘fool’s gold’. This is an ancient stone and is useful for
 heart and vascular conditions.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 21
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 MOONSTONE A silicate, this stone has a milky sheen, the best stones
 containing a blueish colour. Moonstone gives inspiration and enhances the emotions.
 ONYX A type of agate often coloured jet-black and highly polished. It helps
 with concentration and is an important healing agent in certain ear diseases.
 OPAL A hydrated silica, opal helps in lung conditions.
 ROCK-CRYSTAL A colourless pure quartz, it is an important healing
 stone and helps improve intuitive powers.
 ROSE QUARTZ A translucent quartz, this sparks the imagination and
 calms the emotions.
 RUBY A precious stone, ruby is an oxide of aluminium coloured red by
 chromium. It improves mental ability.
 SAPPHIRE The same composition as ruby but is usually a rich blue colour
 due to traces of iron and titanium. The stone of friendship and love, it gives
 devotion, faith and imagination.
 SMOKY QUARTZ An attractive crystalline which has a smoky grey to
 black colour, smoky quartz is used to give good luck.
 TIGER’S EYE A quartz mineral, tiger’s eye is worn for clearer thinking.
 TOURMALINE A complex silicate, tourmaline attracts inspiration, goodwill
 and friendship.
 TURQUOISE An opaque stone given blue-green colour by copper,
 turquoise is a good protector, and so is an ideal stone to give as a gift.
 Herbs
 Most magical practices make use of herbs in various ways, often in rituals and
 magical workings. Often they are used as incense, when they are crushed and
 powdered, or as oils. Their properties mean that they create a type of force field
 that intensifies the vibration needed. Additionally, when the practitioner calls
 upon the power of the Gods and spirits, the herbs become even more effective.
 Simply having particular herbs in your sacred space or having them about
 your person is sufficient to begin the process of enhancing the area or your
 personal vibration. You can use them in incense and dedicate them to the
 appropriate Elements and Deities. Many of the herbs mentioned can be
 obtained from a good herbalist, though for those of you who are truly
 interested it would be worthwhile creating a small herb garden or growing
 them on your windowsill.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 22
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 The uses of herbs
 PROTECTION Such herbs guard against physical and psychic attacks,
 injury, accidents and such things as wicked spirits. They usually offer
 protection in a general sort of way.
 LOVE The vibration of these herbs is such that they can help you to meet
 new people, to overcome shyness and let others know that you are open to
 new relationships. They put out a particular vibration so that those who are
 interested will answer the call. The safest way to use them is to accept that
 several people may be attracted to you and you will then be able to make an
 informed choice.
 FIDELITY Some herbs and plants can by tradition be used to ensure fidelity.
 You do have to have a firm belief that you have a right to another’s devotion
 before imposing your will on them. Using a spell for fidelity amounts to a
 binding spell and you must make allowances for the person’s own integrity. It
 should always be remembered that it is unwise, and sometimes unhelpful, to
 both parties to hold anyone in a relationship against their will.
 HEALING Many herbs have healing properties which can help from both a
 physical and a magical viewpoint. A practitioner working from both points of
 view can be of tremendous help in managing illness. However, always
 remember to advise anyone you work with in this way to seek qualified
 medical assistance. Never allow yourself to be drawn into being a substitute for
 medical help.
 HEALTH Not only the smell of herbs and plants, but also their vibration,
 can help to prevent illness and restore good health. So, if you are prone to illness,
 carry health herbs with you and make sure they are always as fresh as possible.
 LUCK is the knack of being in the right place at the right time and being
 able to act on instinct. Luck herbs help you create your own good fortune.
 Once you have such a foundation, you can build upon it.
 MONEY It is sometimes easier to visualize the outcome of having money 
i.e. what you are going to spend the money on - than visualizing actual money
 coming to you. Certain herbs create an environment in which things can
 happen. They enable the creation of the means to fulfil your needs - perhaps a
 gift, a pay rise or some such thing.
 Herbs are used extensively in this book, so we have included some of the
 main uses - and more important herbs - below.
 ATTRACTING MEN: Jasmine, Juniper (dried berries worn as a charm),
 Lavender, Lemon Verbena, Lovage, Orris Root, Patchouli
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 23
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 ATTRACTING WOMEN: Henbane, Holly, Juniper (dried berries worn
 as a charm), Lemon Verbena, Lovage, Orris Root, Patchouli
 BANISHING: Hyssop, Lilac, St John’s Wort
 CLEANSING: Cinnamon, Clove, Lovage (powdered root), Pine, Thyme
 (in baths), Vervain (of sacred spaces)
 COURAGE: Basil, Garlic, Mullein, Nettle, St John’s Wort, Thyme,
 Wormwood, Yarrow
 EXORCISM: Angelica, Basil, Birch, Frankincense, Juniper, Garlic, St John’s
 Wort
 FERTILITY: Acorns, Geranium, Hawthorn, Mandrake, Orange (dried and
 powdered peel), Pine, Poppy, Sage, Sunflower (seeds)
 FRIENDSHIP: Lemon, Rose, Passion Flower
 GOOD FORTUNE: Ash (leaves), Heather, Nutmeg, Rose, Vetivert
 HAPPINESS: Anise, Catnip, Lily of the Valley, Marjoram, Saffron
 HARMONY: Hyacinth, Heliotrope, Lilac, Meadowsweet
 HEALING: Aloe, Ash, Camomile, Cinnamon, Comfrey, Eucalyptus, Fennel,
 Garlic, Hops, Marjoram, Mint, Nettle, Pine, Rosemary, Saffron, Sage,
 Sandalwood, Thyme, Yarrow
 HEX-BREAKING: Chilli Pepper, Galangal, Vertivert
 LOVE: Apple, Balm of Gilead, Basil, Caraway, Catnip, Coriander, Cowslip,
 Dill, Gardenia, Ginger, Ginseng, Honeysuckle, Jasmine, Lavender, Linden,
 Marigold, Marjoram, Meadowsweet, Mistletoe, Myrtle, Rose, Rosemary,
 Valerian, Vervain, Violet (mixed with Lavender), Yarrow
 LUCK: Apple, Ash (leaves), Hazel, Holly (for newly-weds), Ivy (for
 newly-weds), Mint, Rose, Rowan, Vervain, Violet (flowers)
 LUST: Cinnamon, Lemongrass, Nettle, Rosemary, Violet
 MEDITATION: Camomile, Elecampane, Frankincense, Vervain
 MENTAL POWERS: Caraway, Lily of the Valley, Rosemary, Vanilla,
 Walnut
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 24
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 MONEY: Camomile, Cinnamon, Clove, Comfrey, Fennel, Ginger, Mint,
 Poppy Vervain
 PEACE: Aloe, Camomile, Gardenia, Lavender, Myrtle, Violet
 POWER:Carnation, Cinnamon, Ginger, Rosemary, Rowan
 PROSPERITY: Acorn, Almond, Ash, Basil, Benzoin, Honeysuckle
 Note: There are so many herbs suitable for the next three categories and the
 choice is such a personal one that we have included only a few suggestions.
 Your own further research will very much enhance your magical workings.
 PROTECTION: Aloe, Angelica (Root), Anise, Balm of Gilead, Basil, Bay
 Laurel, Black Pepper, Caraway, Camomile, Dill (for children), Dragon’s Blood,
 Fennel, Garlic, Hawthorn, Holly, Hyssop, Lavender, Mandrake, Meadowsweet,
 Mistletoe, Mugwort, Nettle, Periwinkle, Rose, Rosemary, Rowan, Sage, 
St John’s Wort, Sandalwood, Vervain, Witch Hazel, Wormwood
 PSYCHIC POWERS: Ash (leaves), Bay Laurel, Bay leaves, Cinnamon,
 Cowslip, Elecampane, Eyebright, Hyssop, Lavender, Marigold, Mugwort,
 Nutmeg, Rose, Thyme, Wormwood, Yarrow
 PURIFICATION: Anise, Betony, Cinquefoil, Dragon’s Blood,
 Frankincense, Hyssop, Lavender, Lemon, Oak Leaves, Pine, Rosemary, Rue,
 Sandalwood, Thyme, Valerian, Vervain
 SUCCESS: Cinnamon, Ginger, Lemon Balm, Rowan
 SLEEP: Catnip, Hops, Lavender, Thyme, Valerian, Vervain
 SPIRITUALITY: Cinnamon, Clover, Frankincense, Myrrh, Sandalwood
 WISDOM: Peach (fruit), Sage, Sunflower
 Incense
 As well as making use of herbs as plants, decorations and for healing, their
 most important use in magic was - and still is - in incense. Incense symbolizes
 the Element Air and the spiritual realms and has been part of ritual use by
 occultists and priests alike for thousands of years. Granular incense, with its
 basis of resins and gums, sweet-smelling woods and herbs is nowadays usually
 preferred for magical workings or ritual worship. It has a magic all of its own.
 For this reason a good incense burner will be one of your most important
 tools. You should choose this carefully, and not just for its aesthetic sense,
 because it is vital that the incense is allowed to burn properly.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 25
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 Egypt became especially renowned for its high standard of blending and the
 use of ritual incense. There was a particular class of incense - which is still
 available today - called Khyphi. It required magical techniques and the finest
 ingredients for its manufacture. Some incense were mind-altering and could
 produce trance-like states in users.
 For short spells, joss-sticks work very well, though they are not to everyone’s
 taste. Dhoop, or incense cones as they are known, are another way of using
 the same material.
 By far the best method is to burn the granular type on a charcoal disc which
 is lit and placed in a fireproof receptacle. The incense is then piled onto the
 concave surface and allowed to do its work. You should dispose of the discs
 very carefully, dousing them with water and ensuring they are no longer hot.
 You might like to bury what remains of the incense as an offering to the Earth.
 Many of the herbs we have already encountered are suitable for incense, if
 you wish to make your own. You should choose your correspondences
 carefully, according to your spell. You will soon find out through
 experimentation what works for you.
 When blending your own granular incense it is important to use a pestle
 and mortar to grind and mix all the ingredients together properly. You may
 wish to consecrate your pestle and mortar first. Granular incense usually
 consists of a base of incense gums to which are added the woods and herbs of
 choice before the mixture is blended using fragrant oils.
 Blending granular incense
 • When blending, first grind the gum resins (such as gum Arabic or benzoin)
 until the granules are like granulated sugar.
 • Then add the woods, herbs and spices, all of which should have been finely
 ground and thoroughly blended together.
 • Add the essential oils a drop at a time and mix well. The blending of the
 incense is an important part of the process, both from the perspective of the
 synergy of the ingredients and the personal energy you add to the incense.
 • At this point you might like to dedicate the incense to the purpose intended,
 saying perhaps simply:
 I dedicate this incense to be used in [name spell]
 • Place the incense mixture in a strong polythene bag (so that it retains its
 pungency) then put it into a clean jar with a screw top lid.
 • Do not use for at least 24 hours to enable the perfumes and qualities to
 blend properly.
 • Don’t forget to label the jar, noting the ingredients and the date you made
 the blend. It is also a good idea to note the intention or purpose for which the
 incense is made.
 • Make your incense in small quantities so that it does not lose its potency.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 26
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 When making your incense you may like to follow the example of herbalists
 of old, who gathered their herbs in tune with the cycles of life and planetary
 correspondences. Even though you may have to use bought herbs, the more
 you are able to work with the correspondences (see pages 23-25) and think
 about timing the more effective your spells or rituals will be.
 Oils
 Oils are an easy way of using plants and herbs in magical workings,
 particularly when space is at a premium.
 Below are some oils that we think should be part of every magical
 practitioner’s way of working. All of them are simple to acquire and, if stored
 according to directions, will last for some time even though the initial expense
 may seem to be prohibitive.
 CINNAMON With its warm vibration, it brings love from higher realms,
 transforming sadness into happiness.
 CLARY SAGE lifts the spirit and links with eternal wisdom. teaching us to
 be content with what we have, and that most problems arise in our imagination.
 FRANKINCENSE holds some of the wisdom of the universe. Able to
 cleanse the most negative of influences, it works far beyond the auric field,
 affecting the very subtle realms of energy and adapting the spiritual state.
 Frankincense is sometimes called olibanum.
 GERANIUM resonates with Mother Earth and all that is feminine. It
 comforts, opens our hearts and heals pain.. It typifies the archetypal energy of
 Goddess culture. Its energy is transformational and as such it must always be
 used with respect.
 JASMINE provides us with access to a greater understanding of the spirit. It
 is said that jasmine brings the angelic kingdom within our reach. It gives
 understanding and acceptance of the true meaning of spirituality.
 LAVENDER is caring and nurturing. It will not allow negative emotion to
 remain present, bringing about healing by allowing the heavenly energies close
 to the physical.
 MYRRH brings realization that we no longer need to carry our burdens,
 releasing them from deep within, allowing us to let go when the time is right.
 When combined with other oils, it enhances - and is enhanced by - them.
 NEROLI is one of the most precious essential oils, its vibration being one of
 the highest. It brings self-recognition because it allows development of a new
 perspective, allowing us to develop unconditional love. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 27
THE PRINCIPLES OF MAKING SPELLS
 NUTMEG When the spirit is affected by disappointment, spiritual pain and
 displacement, nutmeg works to bring hopes, dreams and prayers back into focus.
 ROSE ABSOLUT Said to be the perfume of the guardians or messengers
 who guide us in times of need, it is a fragrance which allows us to access the
 Divine mysteries. It is associated with the true needs of the human heart.
 ROSEMARY reminds us of our purpose and of our own spiritual journey
 and encourages confidence and clarity of purpose. It cleanses the aura.
 SANDALWOOD allows us to make contact with divine beings and brings
 us into balance with the cosmos. It clarifies our strength of conviction.
 YLANG YLANG It balances the spirit so that we can be open to pleasures
 of the physical realm while still appreciating spiritual passions. Used magically,
 it achieves a balanced manifestation.
 Spells in fact can be as simple or as complex as one wishes to make them. It
 will depend on your own personal preference and indeed the intention of the
 spell as to what you will wish to use and what you will wish to do. We are
 extremely lucky in this day and age to have many choices available to us and
 many disciplines tried and tested through long experience of which to make
 use. It used to be thought that the spell maker should stick to only one
 discipline and become proficient at that, being initiated only into their own
 craft. As knowledge expands however and we realise that there are similarities
 in the magics which can be produced, it can do no harm to make the effort to
 understand other peoples ways of working and to incorporate these into our
 own practice. 
The Kabbalah as a source of information is unparalleled in magical work
 and arises from a mystical tradition which has its roots in Jewish thought. Folk
 magic arose from the need to understand the cycle of the year with all its
 idiosyncrasies. If the former is one end of the spectrum and the latter the other
 we have a whole range of experience with which to work. The next section
 shows how you can get the best from your spells using techniques and
 knowledge gleaned from the whole spectrum of experience. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 28
Section 2
 Getting
 the Best 
from
 your Spells
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Preparations for spell working
 Several processes become automatic when preparing for spell
 work. If you choose to wear special clothing, then this has to be
 prepared before you actually start your personal preparations.
 We give below some suggestions for personal robes which can be laid
 out with some ceremony before you begin.
 Important magical workings require you to take a ritual bath which cleanses,
 purifies and clarifies your energy so that you are able to get the best results
 possible. Many practitioners prefer to take a ritual bath before performing any
 magical workings. For what you may consider ‘lesser’ magic you do not need
 to bathe, but may prefer to cleanse yourself by running your hands over your
 body before you embark on any working.
 Ritual Bathing
 Ritual bathing arose in times gone by from a perceived need to be in as
 ‘virgin’- that is, unsullied - a state as possible. This is what gave rise to
 working skyclad, i.e. without clothes, so that there were no encumbrances
 between the practitioner and his or her gods or deities.
 Ritual Bath
 As you mix in your salts, bless the water and charge it with your
 intent - be that a particular magical working, a relaxing
 evening or a successful meeting. The candles used in this ritual
 can be in the colours of the Elements or those most appropriate to
 your purpose, for example - pink (tranquillity), blue (wisdom), green
 (self-awareness) and red (passion). For spiritual matters, use purple.
 You will need
 • HOMEMADE BATH SALTS
 • VOTIVE CANDLES ACCORDING TO YOUR NEED
 • LARGE WHITE CANDLE
 • ESSENTIAL OIL TO REMOVE NEGATIVITY (e.g. rosemary)
 • LARGE GLASS OF MINERAL WATER OR JUICE
 Method
 Anoint the large white candle with the essential oil and ask for positivity,
 health and happiness as you do so.
 Do the same with the votive candles according to your need. You may, if you
 wish, inscribe a symbol to represent your purpose on each candle.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 30
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Run your bath and mix in the bath salts.
 Light the candles, first the white one followed by the votives.
 Place the latter safely around the bath.
 The white candle should be placed wherever you feel is safest.
 You have now created a sacred space for yourself.
 Lie back and enjoy your bath and at some point drink your water or juice
 visualizing your whole system being cleansed inside as well as out.
 Before you get out of the bath, thank the water deities for this opportunity to
 prepare thoroughly for the new energies available to you.
 If you are to perform a magical working, then keep your mind focused on
 that intent.
 On this occasion, for safety’s sake, when you have finished your bath, snuff
 out the candles.
 Making your bath salts
 Commercial bath salts will do absolutely nothing on an esoteric
 level – they have too many chemical additives and artificial
 perfumes – so it is a nice touch to make your own using
 single essential oils, blends and/or herbs. The fact that you have mixed
 them yourself means they are infused with your own vibration and
 therefore will work on a very subtle level. Matching your bath salt
 perfume to your incense perfume does wonders for your inner self.
 You will need
 • 3 PARTS EPSOM SALTS
 • 2 PARTS BAKING SODA
 • 1 PART ROCK SALT (or Borax)
 • BOWL FOR MIXING
 • ESSENTIAL OILS IN YOUR CHOSEN PERFUMES
 • HANDFUL OF HERBS (optional)
 • NATURAL FOOD COLOURING
 Method
 Mix the first three ingredients thoroughly in the mixing bowl.
 Use your hands as this will enable you to imbue the salts with your own energy.
 This is your basic mixture and can be perfumed or coloured in any way that
 you please.
 Note: It is wise when using essential oils to mix them first if you are using a
 blend to allow the synergy between the oils to develop.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 31
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Add your colouring first and mix to your satisfaction, then follow with your
 oil or blend a drop at a time.
 Add the herbs to the mixture and combine thoroughly.
 Be generous with the oils since the salts will absorb a surprising amount
 without you realizing.
 Your nose, however, as with all oils and perfumes is the best judge - there is
 no right or wrong amount.
 When you wish to use your salts, add approximately 2 tablespoons to a full
 bathtub and mix well.
 Clothing and Jewellery
 Inevitably there are certain things you will need to remember before you begin
 your magical working. While you are preparing and putting on your robes or
 ritual gowns you might spend time in reflection, silent meditation or prayer.
 Prior to the beginning of any spell and while dressing concentrate on the
 matter in hand. Alternatively, simply focus on the Supreme Being, Cosmic
 Responsibility and/or a successful outcome and ask that the event to follow helps
 you in your learning..
 There is no limit to what can be worn. Some suggest white robes with black
 cords or vice versa, while others simply suggest that you are comfortable in
 what you wear. Many people will spend a great deal of time, energy and
 effort on fashioning suitable robes,
 The idea is that when working magically you leave behind the ordinary
 mundane world, so turn off mobile phones, put away keys and name tags,
 remove money and other objects from pockets and so on. 
It will be a matter of choice as to whether you wear jewellery or not.
 Magical jewellery such as the pentagram, ankh or rings with magical symbols
 or significance are often worn, although they are by no means essential. Many
 prefer not to wear watches, since time is considered irrelevant. It is often better
 not to use perfume or cologne unless it is based on essential oils which are
 suitable for the work in hand, or complement any incense being used.
 Poppets
 A poppet is a small doll or figurine made from wood, paper, material or clay.
 It is shaped roughly in human form and is used, primarily, for magic spells.
 Originating from West African belief systems, poppets can be used to represent
 and help either you or someone else. 
Only make a poppet of someone else if they have given permission, such as
 when you wish to help or heal someone. To make one without permission, or
 for inappropriate reasons, creates the wrong energy vibration and introduces a
 negativity into your magical workings.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 32
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Making a Poppet
 When you are making a poppet, it is good to have either
 taken a ritual purification bath or to have meditated both
 on whether the use of a poppet is appropriate at this time
 and how best to make use of the poppet. This is to ensure that
 insofar as is possible, you have removed any subjective feelings and
 emotions about the subject and are acting only as the creator of the
 object. You know that you are acting only as the channel for the
 energy that is being used.
 You will need
 • PAPER OR CARD (to act as a template)
 • SOFT MATERIAL SUCH AS FELT OR COTTON
 • NEEDLE AND THREAD
 • STRAW, PAPER OR COTTON WOOL
 • HERBS, APPROPRIATE TO THE RITUAL YOU ARE PERFORMING, MAY BE USED
 Method
 Draw the outline of a simple human figure on the card or paper, then cut it
 out. (It should ideally be at least four inches high.)
 Fold the material in two and place the template on it. Cut around the template.
 Sew the figures together, leaving a small area open.
 Turn the figure inside out so the stitches are on the inside.
 Stuff the figure with the straw, paper, cotton wool or herbs. You can
 personalize the poppet by adding a lock of hair to the filling.
 You can also use buttons for eyes or draw on facial features if you wish.
 Finish sewing the material together.
 Your poppet is now ready for use. Do not destroy it when you have finished
 with it – either give it to the person whom it represents or bury it safely in the
 earth. 
Consecrating your sacred space
 If you are going to be carrying out a fair number of rituals or spells, you will
 really need a sacred space or altar along with various other altar furnishings.
 Whether your altar is inside or outside does not matter. To set it up indoors,
 your altar andor sacred space should preferably be in a quiet place in the home,
 where it will not be disturbed and where candles can be burned safely.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 33
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 The space first needs to be dedicated to the purpose of magical working.
 You can do this by first brushing the area clean with an ordinary brush,
 concentrating your thoughts on cleansing the space as you work physically to
 bring this about. Mentally cleanse the space three times, imagining doing it
 once for the physical world, once for the emotional space and once spiritually.
 If you wish, you may sprinkle the whole area with water and with salt
 (which represents the Earth). You might perhaps also burn incense such as
 jasmine or frankincense to clear the atmosphere. Think of the space as
 somewhere you would entertain an honoured guest in your home - you would
 wish the room you use to be as welcoming as it can be. You will later use
 your besom to keep the sacred space clear.
 If you travel a lot or are pushed for space, you might dedicate a tray or
 special piece of wood or china for ceremonial working. This, along with your
 candles and incense, can then be kept together in a small box or suitcase.
 Otherwise, you could dedicate a table especially for the purpose. Ideally, you
 should not need to pack up each time.
 You will also need a ‘fine cloth’- the best you can afford - to cover the
 surface. Place your cloth on your chosen surface and spend some quiet time just
 thinking about its purpose. You may, if you wish, have different cloths for
 different purposes or perhaps have one basic cloth which is then ‘dressed’ with
 the appropriate colour for each ritual.
 Setting up your altar
 To turn your dressed table into a proper altar, you will need as basics the
 following objects:
 1. Two candles with candle holders - you might like to think of one
 representing the female principle and one the male. You may also choose, in
 addition, candles of a colour suitable for the ritual or spell you are working.
 2. An incense holder and incense suitable for the particular working.
 3. A representation of the deity or deities you prefer to work with. An image
 of the Goddess, for instance, could be anything from a statue of the Chinese
 Goddess of Compassion, Kuan Yin, to seashells, chalices, bowls, or certain
 stones that symbolize the womb or motherhood.
 4. A small vase for flowers or fresh herbs.
 Other objects appropriate for ceremonial working are:
 • An athame, which is a sacred knife for ceremonial use; it should never be
 used for anything else.
 • A white-handled knife (called a boline) for cutting branches, herbs, etc.
 • A burin, which is a sharp-pointed instrument for inscribing magical objects
 such as candles.
 • A small earthenware or ceramic bowl, or a small cauldron, for mixing
 ingredients.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 34
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 • A bowl of water.
 • A bowl of salt or sand, representing Earth.
 • A consecrated cloth, or a pentacle, on which to place dedicated objects.
 More detailed information on these objects can be found on pages 16-18.
 Some people additionally use bells to summon the powers of the Elements,
 whilst others have additional candles with the colours representing both
 themselves and the work they wish to do. You can also have other items on
 your altar, such as crystals, amulets and talismans.
 You can do what you wish with your own altar provided you have
 thought through very carefully your logical or emotional reasons for including
 whatever you have there. You might, for instance, choose to have differing
 representations of the Earth Mother from diverse religions or include a pretty
 gift to establish a psychic link with the person who gave it to you.
 Dedicating your altar
 Now you have turned your space into an altar, dedicate it in such a way that
 it will support any workings you may choose to do. One good way is to
 dedicate it to the principle of the Greater Good - that none may be harmed by
 anything that you may do. (Remember that traditionally any harm you
 instigate deliberately will return to you threefold, particularly when it comes
 from such a sacred space.) It will depend on your basic belief just how you
 choose to dedicate the altar further, perhaps to the Moon deity and all her
 manifestations, perhaps to the Gods of power.
 Try to put as much passion and energy into the dedication as you can and
 remember to include a prayer for protection of your sacred space. Some people
 will need to cast a circle each time they do a working, while others will feel
 that just by setting the altar up in the way suggested that that space is
 consecrated henceforth. If you wish to follow the principles of feng shui rather
 than Wicca within your work, your placings will be slightly different, as they
 will also be if you choose to follow the tenets of other religions.
 However, whatever you do, you should take care to dedicate all of your
 tools and altar furnishings to the purpose in hand. You are empowering them
 and making them usable only in ritual and magical work. If you try to use
 them for any other purpose, you will negate that magical power.
 Consecrating altar objects
 If you are not using completely new objects on your altar - here we are
 referring to the basic ‘furnishings’ of candle holders etc - you should cleanse
 them before you dedicate them to your purpose. Treat them in the same way as
 you would any crystals you use, by soaking them overnight in salt water to
 remove anyone else’s vibrations and then standing them in sunshine (or
 moonshine) for at least 12 hours to charge them with the appropriate energy.
 When you are ready, hold each object and allow your own energy to flow
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 35
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 into it, followed by the energy of your idea of Ultimate Power. (That way
 you make a very powerful link between yourself, the object and the Ultimate.)
 Ask this Power to bless the object and any working you may do with it and
 perceive yourself as truly a medium or channel for the energy.
 Hopefully, each time you use any of the objects, you will immediately be able
 to reinforce that link rather than having to re-establish it. It is like a refrain
 continually running in the background. Now place the objects on your altar
 however it feels right for you.
 Finally, if appropriate, create and caste your circle so that it includes yourself
 and your altar. The magic circle defines the ritual area, holds in personal
 power and shuts out all distractions and negative energies. You now have a
 sacred space set up which is your link to the powers that be. Again it is a
 matter of personal choice as to whether you choose to re-dedicate your altar
 and what it contains on a regular basis.
 Casting a circle
 Purify yourself first. You can do this by meditating, or taking a ritual bath.
 One way is to, try to keep the water flowing, possibly by leaving the bath
 plug half in, or by having a shower. This reinforces the idea of washing away
 any impurities so you are not sitting in your own psychic rubbish. (Scent your
 bath water with your selection of a sacred or special herb or oil.) Ideally, your
 towel - if you choose to use one - should be clean and used only for the
 purpose of your ritual bath.
 • Wear something special if you can, something that you only wear during a
 ritual or working. You can always add a pretty scarf or a throw in the correct
 colour for your working. This sets apart spell working from everyday confusion.
 • Decide on the extent of your circle, which should be formed in front of
 your altar. Purify this space by sprinkling the area with water followed by salt- both of these should have been blessed.
 • Sit quietly for as long as you can inside the area that will become your circle.
 • Imagine a circle of light surrounding you. This light could be white, blue or
 purple. If you are in a hurry and cannot purify and cleanse fully, reinforce
 the circle of light by visualizing it suffused with the appropriate colour for
 your working.
 • Circle the light around, above and below you in a clockwise direction, like
 the representation of an atom. Feel it as a sphere or as a cone of power. Sense
 the power Remember to leave a ‘doorway’ through which your magic energy
 may exit. You should always feel warm and peaceful within your circle.
 • Use your own personal chant or form of words according to your own
 belief system to consecrate your circle and banish all evil and negative energy,
 forbidding anything harmful to enter your space. Remember, you are always
 safe within your circle if you command it to be so.
 • If appropriate, invite the Gods and Goddesses to attend your circle and
 magical working.
 • Relax and be happy.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 36
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 If you wish, you can use objects on the ground to show the boundaries of the
 circle, such as candles, crystals, cord, stones, flowers or incense. The circle is
 formed from personal power. This may be felt and visualized as streaming
 from the body to form a bubble made of mist, or a circle of light. You can use
 the athame (ritual dagger) or your hands to direct this power.
 The cardinal points of the compass may be denoted with lit candles, often
 white or purple. Alternatively, place a green candle at the North point of the
 circle, yellow candle at the East, red candle at the South and blue candle at the
 West. The altar stands in the centre of the circle, facing North in the direction
 of power.
 Consecrating your tools
 Most magical traditions make use of the familiar magical Elements of Earth,
 Air, Fire and Water. Some traditions have specific tools which are important
 to them. There is also a fifth magical element - that of spirit. The simplest
 consecration that can be made is to offer each of the objects to spirit that they
 may be used for the best purpose possible. You can specifically dedicate any
 tool using a short invocation such as:
 I dedicate this magical tool to the purpose for which it is intended
 You can, of course, be as creative with your speech as you desire. Anything
 else that is done will be according to the traditions of your own belief.
 With all your tools (which we listed on pp 16-18), when you first purchase
 them or have them made, cleanse them before use, then dedicate them by filling
 them with your own energy as you did with your altar objects. You might
 also offer them to your appropriate deity.
 Best times and correspondences 
for spell working
 Truly efficient spell working requires a knowledge of the correspondences
 which were set up many eons ago when life was a good deal simpler than it is
 today. These correspondences meant that actions carried out at a certain time
 created very specific results. Through continual usage, it became clear that the
 position of the planets ruled various areas of life. This created the principle of
 the rulership of the planets and the symbolism that is such an integral part of
 magical working today.
 Overleaf in the form of an easily consultable table we list some of those
 correspondences.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 37
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Astrological Correspondences
 •Aries•
 (March 21 - April 19)
 PLANET: Mars
 ELEMENT: Fire
 DAY: Tuesday
 MAGICAL USE: Passion and
 sexuality, energy, willpower, vigour,
 courage and strength. determination
 COLOURS: Reds, Burgundy
 CRYSTAL: Ruby, Garnet,
 Bloodstone, Diamond
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Gorse, Thistle,
 Wild Rose
 ANGEL: Samael
 •Gemini•
 (May 22 - June 20)
 PLANET: Mercury
 ELEMENT: Air
 DAY: Wednesday
 MAGICAL USE: Wisdom, healing,
 communication, intelligence,
 memory, education
 COLOURS: White, Spring Green,
 Silver, Yellow
 CRYSTAL: Diamond, Jade, Topaz,
 Aquamarine
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Iris, Parsley, Dill,
 Snapdragons,
 ANGEL: Raphael
 •Leo•
 (July 23 - August 22)
 PLANET: Sun
 ELEMENT: Fire
 DAY: Sunday
 MAGICAL USE: Power, magic, health,
 success, career, goals, ambition,
 drama, fun, authority figures, law
 COLOURS: Gold, Red, Yellow, Orange
 CRYSTALS: Amber, Topaz, Ruby,
 Diamond
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Marigold,
 Sunflower, Hops
 ANGEL: Michael
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 •Taurus•
 (April 20 - May 21)
 PLANET: Venus
 ELEMENT: Earth
 DAY: Friday
 MAGICAL USE: Romantic love,
 friendships, beauty, courtship,
 artistic abilities, harmony
 COLOURS: Blues, Greens
 CRYSTAL: Sapphire, Emerald, Jade
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Violet, Wild Rose,
 Red Rose, Coltsfoot
 ANGEL: Anael
 •Cancer•
 (June 21 - July 22)
 PLANET: Moon
 ELEMENT: Water
 DAY: Monday
 MAGICAL USE: Psychic pursuits,
 psychology, dreams/astral travel,
 imagination, intuition, reincarnation
 COLOURS: Pale Blue, Silver, Pearl, 
White
 CRYSTALS: Emerald, Cat’s Eye,
 Pearl, Moonstone
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Poppy, Water Lily,
 White Rose, Moonwort
 ANGEL: Gabriel
 •Virgo•
 (August 23 - Sept 22)
 PLANET: Mercury
 ELEMENT: Earth
 DAY: Wednesday
 MAGICAL USES: wisdom, healing,
 communication, intelligence, memory,
 attention to detail, correspondence
 COLOURS: Pastel Blue, Gold, Peach
 CRYSTALS: Diamond, Jade, Jasper,
 Aquamarine
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Rosemary,
 Cornflower, Valerian
 ANGEL: Raphael
 38
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 •Libra•
 (Sept 23 - Oct 22)
 PLANET: Venus
 ELEMENT: Air
 DAY: Friday
 MAGICAL USES: Love, partnership
 marriage, friendship, beauty,
 courtship
 COLOURS: Cerulean Blue, Royal
 Blue, Amethyst
 CRYSTALS: Opal, Lapis Lazuli,
 Emerald, Jade
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Violet, White
 Rose, Love-in-the-Mist
 ANGEL: Anael
 •Sagittarius•
 (Nov 22 - Dec 21)
 PLANET: Jupiter
 ELEMENT: Fire
 DAY: Thursday
 MAGICAL USES: Publishing, long
distance travel, foreign interests,
 religion, happiness, wealth, healing,
 male fertility, legal matters
 COLOURS: Lilac, Mauve, Purple,
 Amethyst
 CRYSTALS: Sapphire, Amethyst, Diamond
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Carnation,
 Wallflower, Clovepink, Sage
 ANGEL: Sachiel
 •Aquarius•
 (Jan 20 - Feb 18)
 PLANET: Saturn, Uranus
 ELEMENT: Air
 DAY: Saturday
 MAGICAL USES: Psychic ability,
 meditation, defense, communicating
 with spirits
 COLOURS: All Colours
 CRYSTALS: Zircon, Amber Amethyst,
 Garnet
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Snowdrop,
 Foxglove, Valerian
 ANGEL: Uriel, Cassiel
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 •Scorpio•
 (Oct 23 - Nov 21)
 PLANET: Mars, Pluto
 ELEMENT: Water
 DAY: Tuesday
 MAGICAL USES: Courage, energy,
 breaking negativity, physical strength,
 passion, sex, aggression, energy
 COLOURS: Dark Red, Brown, Black,
 Grey
 CRYSTALS: Ruby, Garnet,
 Bloodstone, Topaz
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Basil, Heather,
 Chrysanthemum
 ANGEL: Samael, Azrael
 •Capricorn•
 (Dec 22 - Jan 19)
 PLANET: Saturn
 ELEMENT: Earth
 DAY: Saturday
 MAGICAL USES: Binding, protection,
 neutralization, karma, death,
 manifestation, structure, reality, the 
laws of society, limits, obstacles
 COLOURS: Grey, Violet, Dark Brown
 CRYSTALS: Onyx, Obsidian, Jet,
 Garnet
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Deadly Nightshade,
 Snowdrop, Rue
 ANGEL: Cassiel
 •Pisces•
 (Feb 19 - Mar 20)
 PLANET: Jupiter, Neptune
 ELEMENT: Water
 DAY: Thursday
 MAGICAL USES: Music, rhythm,
 dancing, spiritual matters, healing
 and religion, medication
 COLOURS: Purple, Violet, Sea Green
 CRYSTALS: Sapphire, Amethyst, 
Coral
 FLOWERS/HERBS: Heliotrope,
 Carnation, Opium Poppy
 ANGEL: Sachiel, Asariel
 39
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Moon Correspondences
 The Moon represents the feminine principle and is a symbol for the natural
 cycle of birth, life and regeneration. Her best personification is that of the
 Triple Goddess (Maiden, Mother, Crone) which is an image found in many
 early religions. The lunar phases (Waxing, Waning or Full Moon) can be
 made use of when planning your magical work.
 It is always useful to have your rituals and spells coincide with the
 appropriate astrological influences. For example, spells and rituals calling on the
 Moon and involving the Element of Earth should be performed during a time
 when the Moon is positioned in one of the three astrological earth signs of
 Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn. Spells involving the Element of Fire should be
 done when the Moon is in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius; spells involving the
 Element of Air when the Moon is in Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, whilst spells
 involving the Element of Water should be performed when the Moon is in
 Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces.
 You could also use the appropriate incenses for your rituals and there are
 other correspondences in the application of magic which might be utilised as
 shown below:
 MOON INARIES  
Magic involving anything to do with authority, leadership, rebirth, moving on
 or spiritual conversion should achieve success. Healing rituals for ailments of
 the face, head or brain are also best performed at this time.
 MOON IN TAURUS
 At this time you can work magic for love, security, possessions and money.
 Healing rituals for illnesses of the throat, neck and ears are also undertaken
 during at this time.
 MOON IN GEMINI
 This is a good time to work magic for anything to do with communication,
 including writing, e-mails, public relations, moving house or office and travel.
 Ailments of the shoulders, arms, hands or lungs also respond well to healing
 rituals done during this period of time.
 MOON IN CANCER
 This is the best time to work magic for home and domestic life, and also any
 nurturing activities. Healing rituals for ailments of the chest or stomach should
 be carried out during this period of time.
 MOON IN LEO
 Courage, fertility and childbirth are all ruled by Leo as is the power over
 others, so this is the best time to work such magic. Healing rituals for problems
 of the upper back, spine or heart all seem to have some success during this
 period of time.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 40
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 MOON IN VIRGO
 At this time magic worked for questions involving employment, intellectual
 matters, health and dietary concerns is much enhanced. Healing rituals for
 ailments of the intestines or nervous system are also best done during this
 period of time.
 MOON IN LIBRA
 Magic involving artistic work, justice, court cases, partnerships and unions,
 mental stimulation, and karmic, spiritual, or emotional balance receive a boost
 when worked at this time. Healing rituals for ailments of the lower back or
 kidneys have additional energy now.
 MOON IN SCORPIO
 This is the best time to work magic involving sexual matters, power, psychic
 growth, secrets and fundamental transformations. Healing rituals for difficulties
 with the reproductive organs are also most effective during this period.
 MOON IN SAGITTARIUS
 This is the opportune time to work magic for publications, legal matters, travel
 and revealing truth. Healing rituals for ailments of the liver, thighs or hips are
 also done at this time.
 MOON IN CAPRICORN
 This is an ideal time to work magic for ambition, career, organization, political
 matters and recognition. Healing rituals for the knees, bones, teeth and skin are
 best performed at this time.
 MOON IN AQUARIUS
 This is the best time to work magic involving scientific matters, freedom of
 expression, problem solving, extra sensory abilities and the breaking of bad
 habits or unhealthy addictions. Ailments of the calves, ankles or blood receive
 benefit from healing rituals.
 MOON IN PISCES
 Magic worked on the psychic arts involving dreamwork, clairvoyance,
 telepathy and music is enhanced at this time. Healing rituals for problems with
 the feet or lymph glands benefit from the flow of energy.
 Magical days
 The days of the week, because they are ruled by the various gods, create an
 energy which is best for certain types of magical working. Following is a list
 which, while not completely comprehensive, will give you some idea of when
 to perform your spells. Each day’s planetary ruler and optimum colours are 
also given.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 41
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 SUNDAY(Sun - yellow, gold, orange): ambition, authority figures, career,
 children, crops, drama, fun, goals, health, law, personal finances, promotion,
 selling, speculating, success, volunteers and civic services.
 MONDAY(Moon - white, silver, grey, pearl): antiques, astrology, children,
 dreams/astral travel, emotions, fluids, household activities, imagination,
 initiation, magic, new-age pursuits, psychology, reincarnation, religion, short
 trips, spirituality, the public, totem animals, trip planning,
 TUESDAY(Mars - red, pink, orange): aggression, business, beginnings,
 combat, confrontation, courage, dynamism, gardening, guns, hunting,
 movement, muscular activity, passion, partnerships, physical energy, police,
 repair, sex, soldiers, surgery, tools, woodworking.
 WEDNESDAY(Mercury - purple, magenta, silver): accounting, astrology,
 communication, computers, correspondence, editing, editors, education, healing,
 hiring, journalists, learning, languages, legal appointments, messages, music,
 phone calls, siblings, signing contracts, students, visiting friends, visual arts,
 wisdom, writing.
 THURSDAY(Jupiter - blue, metallic colours): business, charity, college,
 doctors, education, expansion, forecasting, foreign interests, gambling, growth,
 horses, long-distance travel, luck, material wealth, merchants, philosophy,
 psychologists, publishing, reading, religion, researching, self-improvement, sports,
 studying the law.
 FRIDAY (Venus - green, pink, white): affection, alliances, architects, artists,
 beauty, chiropractors, courtship, dancers, dating, designers, engineers,
 entertainers, friendships, gardening, gifts, harmony, luxury, marriage, music,
 painting, partners, poetry, relationships, romantic love, shopping, social activity.
 SATURDAY(Saturn - black, grey, red, white): binding, bones, criminals,
 death, debts, dentists, discovery, endurance, farm workers, financing, hard
 work, housing, justice, karma, limits, manifestation, maths, murderers,
 neutralization, obstacles, plumbing, protection, reality, sacrifice, separation,
 structure, teeth, tests, transformation, wills.
 Planetary days and hours
 Each hour of the day and night is also matched to a planetary influence.
 Planetary hours can be very useful, especially if you can’t wait until the right
 Moon phase or even the right day to perform your magical working. You
 can, of course, wait for both the appropriate day and planetary hour, if you
 wish. Planetary hours are divided into two parts: sunrise to sunset and sunset
 to sunrise.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 42
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Calculating the planetary ‘hours’ once the principle is understood is relatively
 easy. The calculation goes back to when there were no clocks to measure time.
 The periods of light and dark were each divided into 12 equal portions which
 were called ‘hours’.
 Therefore if we divide the number of minutes of daylight by 12, we
 discover exactly how long a planetary hour is. For example, if the sun rises at
 7am and sets at 4pm you would have 9 normal hours of daylight. This would
 then have to be divided by 12 to calculate when each new planetary hour
 begins. Thus:
 9 hours multiplied by 60 minutes gives 540 minutes
 540 minutes divided by 12 gives 45 minutes.
 Therefore each daytime magical hour would be equivalent to 45 minutes
 normal time and you would measure accordingly.
 From sunset, things would be slightly different - a little thought will show
 why so many magical practitioners work at night!
 Using the example above, we have 15 hours out of 24 left. Thus:
 15 hours multiplied by 60 minutes gives 900 minutes
 900 minutes divided by 12 gives 75 minutes
 Each night-time hour would be therefore be equivalent to 
75 normal minutes.
 Because only the Sun and six planets - not all ten planets - are used as
 correspondences, you have a chance to use those influences either during the
 day or during the hours of darkness. Planetary hours are always calculated
 with reference to the rising sun, so each time you wish to use a planetary hour,
 you must first know precisely when the sun rises where you are living. The
 influence can either help or hinder our magical efforts.
 How to discover the best planetary hour
 • Decide on which influence you would like most for your magical working.
 • Consult the Magical Days list on page 42 to decide which planet is most
 appropriate.
 • Find out at what time the Sun rises in your area - it changes slightly from
 day to day. You can usually find this information in a daily newspaper, on
 television or the internet.
 • Look at the two Planetary Hours charts overleaf and choose one of them.
 Your choice will depend on whether you prefer working in the day or after
 sunset. On the relevant chart, find the day and hour you wish to use. If the
 matter is urgent, you would have to choose today.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 43
GETTINGTHEBESTFROMYOURSPELLS
 44
 You have hopefully already noted the planetary influence you need for your
 particular working. Find that planet under the day you chose. You might
 decide you needed Jupiter’s influence on a Monday - that would be hour 3.
 Using the example above, the best time to do your working during the day
 would be Hour 3 or Hour 10 of that day (between 8.30 and 9.15am or
 between 2.30 and 3.15pm).
 The chart of planetary hours 
Hour Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
 1 Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn
 2 Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
 3 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars
 4 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun
 5 Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
 6 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury
 7 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon
 8 Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn
 9 Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
 10 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars
 11 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun
 12 Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
 Hour Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
 1 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury
 2 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon
 3 Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn
 4 Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
 5 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars
 6 Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun
 7 Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
 8 Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury
 9 Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon
 10 Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn
 11 Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
 12 Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Sun Moon Mars
 HOURS OF THE DAY
 HOURS OF THE NIGHT
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Colour
 Colour is something which, over time, you will use as a natural adjunct in
 your magical workings. It can be used in your robes, to dress your altar, or in
 your candles as representative of the vibration you wish to introduce. By and
 large, the colours you choose for your workings will be those appropriate for
 your intention (the purpose of your spell).
 There are other uses of colour in magic as well. Some simple colour
 symbolism is listed below.
 WHITE AND SILVER Silver is almost always associated with the Lunar
 Goddesses and workings with the moon. White symbolises purity, chastity and
 spirituality and is said to contain within it all the other colours, so always use
 white if you have nothing else available. Use it also when you want focus and
 a protective influence.
 PURPLE, INDIGO AND VIOLET These are the Royal colours and are
 therefore associated with wisdom and vision, dignity and fame. They are often
 used when honouring the Goddess in her aspect of Crone and the God as
 King, according to some traditions of magic. These colours command respect
 and promote psychic and mental healing.
 SKY BLUE This colour signifies communication in all its forms, not just
 between people, but also between the realms so is good for meditative 
practices and also for help with study and learning. The colour is also used 
to symbolise water.
 GREEN This colour, which belongs to Venus, promotes love, fertility,
 beauty, prosperity and wealth. Associated with the Earth in its guise of the
 Green Man and with the Great Mother in her nurturing form it suggests
 emotional healing and growth.
 GOLD AND YELLOW These colours represent vitality, strength and
 rejuvenation. They therefore are used to promote physical healing, hope and
 happiness. Related to the Sun Gods and the Element of Air, they may also be
 used for protection.
 ORANGE Used as a healing vibration, particularly of relationships, orange is
 also associated with material success and legal matters. A highly creative
 vibration, it often relates to childhood and emotional stability.
 RED This colour is recognised as that associated with passion and sexual
 potency and with intensity. It is usually associated with fire, with the quality
 of courage and with healing of the blood and heart.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 45
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 PINK This is the colour that signifies friendship, love, fidelity and the
 healing of emotions. It also symbolises creativity and innocence and is associated
 with the Goddess in her aspect of Maiden.
 BROWN promotes the healing of the Earth, symbolises the hearth and home
 and is also connected with the animal kingdom. It can also be used for the
 blending of several intentions.
 BLACK is not a colour but is the absence of both light and colour. It can
 therefore be used to banish negativity. It is often seen as the colour of the
 Goddess in her Wise Woman form.
 Words of power
 Signs and symbols are an important part of magic and are very easily universally
 recognized. In other words, any competent magician or alchemist would be
 easily able to read the information which was being passed on. Much of the
 magical language that we use today has come down to us from the Kabbalah,
 which was primarily an oral tradition (learned through the spoken word).
 There were certain ideas that the ordinary layman was capable of
 understanding and others that only the priesthood were capable of assimilating.
 Knowledge was power and that knowledge must be jealously guarded lest it
 fall into the wrong hands. The writings were therefore in code, and had a
 tremendous power and energy invested in them. The sense of awe and wonder
 they generated was phenomenal. Now, as these messages become open to
 interpretation, they still are able to generate that same sense of awe and wonder.
 While the writings of Kabbalah were obviously in ancient Hebrew, it was
 believed that the letters and numbers had very powerful vibrations. To keep
 the writers’ intentions hidden, it was possible to substitute other phrases and
 letters or numbers for what was originally noted down, and it all became very
 confusing. It is this which has generated so much interest recently in the Bible
 Code and other so-called ‘secret’ messages.
 There are many different ‘codes’ that can be used to signify various aspects
 of magic and here we show the Hebrew and English equivalent. The
 following is an example of how English letters can be transferred into numbers
 using Kabbalistic beliefs:
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 A B G D E O Z F T
 C K Gh Dh H U P Tz
 I Kh M M N V Ch
 J R S Th W Ph
 Q
 Y
 Sh
 X
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 46
GETTINGTHEBESTFROMYOURSPELLS
 47
 Below we show some other alphabets and their equivalents. In theory there is
 nothing to prevent you from mixing up your alphabets in magical writings,
 though the purists among us will cringe at such an idea.
 A B C D E F G H I J K L M
 N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
 Royal arch cipher
 A B G D H V Z Ch T I K
 L M N S O P Tz Q R Sh Th
 Hebrew alphabet
 A B G D E Z E Th I K L M
 N X O P R S T U Ph Ch Ph 0
 Greek alphabet
 A B C D E F G H I J K
 L M N Ng O P R S T Th U
 Futhark (Runic) alphabet
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 Words of power are those which create a very specific vibration linking us
 with the Divine. Practitioners of Yoga, for instance, will use the very
 powerful OM or Aum accepted as the vibration of Creation. Followers of
 Islam chant the 99 ‘Beautiful Names’ of Allah. Hebrew mystics and magicians
 use the secret names of God, such as Yahweh, Adonai and Elohim. Native
 Americans observe chanting in preparation for many activities and ceremonies.
 Chants, or mantras, are also greatly venerated in other Shamanic societies.
 It is the use of words of power which can enchant something or someone 
to enchant initially meant to surround someone with a vibration which brought
 about transformation. In ancient Greece, female sorcerers and seers are said to
 have howled their chants, believing that this created the powerful vibrations to
 augment the power of their chants. Early and medieval sorcerers and magicians
 sang their chants in very forceful voices in order to raise power.
 This practice predated the raising of highly focussed energy developed by
 modern day magicians and spell workers. These latter use as their mantras
 (mind-makers) the names of the Goddess and of the horned God as well as
 the names of other deities. Chants also are done for magical purposes to achieve
 an altered state of consciousness and create psychic energy. Below is one such
 chant, which should be repeated at least nine times.
 Eko, Eko Azarak
 Eko, Eko Zomelak
 Eko, Eko Cernunnos
 Eko, Eko Aradia
 Words of power may also consist of rhymes, alliterative phrases - including
 nonsensical ones - and charms that are created or taken from other sources such
 as books or poetry. In some magical traditions it is believed that a chant used as
 a tool for healing should not be used more than three times lest the chanter
 becomes infected by the very condition he or she is attempting to cure.
 Constructing spells and rituals
 Traditionally, spells, formulae and rituals were recorded in the Grimoire which,
 of late, has become known as the Book of Shadows. There is often controversy
 over whether one’s magical books should be called a Grimoire or a Book of
 Shadows. Really it depends on which traditions of magic you have been taught.
 The word Grimoire simply means ‘a book of learning’. It came to mean the
 records kept by true practitioners of magic as they wrote down the secret keys
 they discovered as they progressed along the path of initiation. The best known
 Grimoire was the translation of one made widely available at the beginning of
 the 20th century - that of King Solomon. This book was of great antiquity
 and traditionally is seen as the magical key to the Kabbalah. In truth, it was the
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 48
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 key to the Mysteries and has since formed the basis of other magical systems.
 The first Book of Shadows is said to have been written by Gerald Gardner
 as he developed modern Wicca in the 1920s. The Book of Shadows does not
 serve as a diary, but reflects religious rituals, their modifications and any other
 workings that need to be recorded.
 Both books were traditionally secret writings, often written in coded
 language. The Book of Shadows follows the same principle, although
 obviously with modern communication much of what used to be hidden is
 more readily available.
 Most solitary practitioners will treasure the records of their workings whether
 they choose to call it a Book of Shadows or a Grimoire. Either book becomes
 part of a rich tradition.
 Any self-respecting practitioner will both want and need to keep a record 
of all of these aspects of magic for future reference. You will need to find an
 easy way of remembering what you have done. Utilizing the worksheets and
 the respective headings below will help you to do this.
 These can also be used, should you wish, with modern technology.
 Computer and software programmes can be tremendously helpful in keeping
 records in a fashion that is suitable for passing on to other people.
 Spells and formulae record sheet
 TYPE OF SPELL OR FORMULA: This should state very clearly what the
 type of spell is e.g. blessing, binding etc. When developing formulas for lotions
 and potions, for instance, you need to be clear as to the exact purpose.
 DATE AND TIME MADE: This gives a cross-reference should you wish
 to use the correct planetary hours or magical days.
 REFERENCE: you should develop your own system of reference; this might
 be, for instance, according to the time of year or alphabetically. Do also
 remember to keep safely somewhere a record of how you have developed your
 reference system so that others may benefit from your experience.
 ASTROLOGICAL PHASE: if you have an interest in astrology you will
 probably want to record where the planets are when you prepare the spell or
 formula. A decent ephemeris (list of planetary positions) can be of great help
 here though there are also many sources of information on the internet.
 SPECIFIC PURPOSE: you should always state the specific purpose of the
 spell or formula very clearly. This is partly because it helps to focus your own
 mind, but also because it leaves no one in any doubt as to your intentions.
 Should you have more than one main purpose, you should also record these.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 49
GETTING THE BEST FROM YOUR SPELLS
 LIST OF INGREDIENTS AND/OR SUPPLIES NEEDED: Having
 all your ingredients to hand ensures that you are working with maximum
 efficiency and not misusing or needing to adjust the energy by leaving the
 sacred space. Also, when you repeat a working you will need to replicate what
 you did the first time; even one small change in ingredients can make a
 tremendous difference to the outcome.
 SPECIFIC LOCATION REQUIRED: You may well need to perform
 some spells within a certain area or setting. Also you may discover that your
 own energy responds to some locations better than others.
 DATE, TIME AND ASTROLOGICAL PHASE WHEN USED:
 In all probability you will not want all your spells to take effect at the time
 you cast them. uppose you have applied for a job and wish your spell to work
 at the time of interview. You would need to carefully calculate the date, time
 and astrological phase of the interview as well as the time you are actually
 casting your spell and incorporate both sets of information into your working. 
RESULTS: Record carefully all aspects of results you feel are associated with
 your working. This record should include how successful you consider the
 spell to be and how it might be improved. There will be some unexpected
 results, some which appear not to give a tangible result and others which come
 into play some time after they were expected.
 DEITIES INVOKED DURING PREPARATION AND/OR USE:
 Often a particular god can be helpful in bringing about a needed result for a
 spell. You will chose the most appropriate for your purpose and can always
 petition a different one at another time.
 STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATIONS
 AND/OR USE: Often when spell-working, movements and words are
 intuitive and instinctive; the more you are able to remember what you did the
 more likely you are to achieve similar results. Also, should you require them
 for someone to work on your behalf or to undertake someone else’s magical
 training, you will have an exact record.
 ADDITIONAL NOTES: Here you should record for each occasion
 anything that seems strange, bizarre or noteworthy so that you know what to
 expect next time.
 In each of the spells we give a list of ingredients and special articles which
 may be required to achieve a result for that particular spell. Because each
 individual brings their own energy into the process, you may find that you
 intuitively want to change something, whether that is an ingredient, a container
 or the words used. This is absolutely fine, and means that your spell has a very
 personal ‘feel’ to it.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 50
Section 3
 The Spells
 Compendium
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
Health and healing
 The subtle energies which come together to give each person
 their unique makeup are very precious and can be conserved
 and enhanced. We as spell workers have a responsibility to
 make ourselves as healthy and whole as possible and in so
 doing can also help others to overcome problems and
 difficulties. We learn to appeal to a universal energy and its
 various parts to help the world go round a little more easily.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 53
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Healing the body
 This spell works on a simple principle, that of identifying within
 the body whether the pain it is suffering is physical, emotional
 or, as is often the case, has a more deep-rooted spiritual
 component. It uses visualization and colour as its vehicles and calls
 on Raphael the Archangel of Healing for help.
 You will need
 • LARGE PIECE OF PAPER
 • RED, YELLOW AND PURPLE FELT TIP PENS 
• BLACK MARKER PEN
 Method
 Draw three concentric circles.
 The inner one should be purple, the middle yellow and the outer red.
 Add a circle for the head and lines for the legs, so you have drawn a
 representation of yourself.
 Now, thinking of any health difficulties you have, with the black marker put
 a small mark on the drawn ‘body’ to represent that pain.
 Keep your pen in contact with the paper and ask Raphael for help.
 You might say:
 Raphael, Raphael Angel of ease
 Help me to understand this pain please
 You should find that your mark is closer to one circle than the other.
 Remembering that this method is not a self diagnostic tool at all - it is simply
 designed to help you to come to terms with the pain or difficulty - note which
 colour this is:
 Red represents pain which is purely physical
 Yellow usually signifies an emotional cause
 Purple tends to have a more spiritual basis
 Sit quietly and draw that colour into yourself as though you were marking
 within your body where the pain is.
 Next mentally flood that part of your body with white light.
 For the next two days sit quietly and make the invocation to Raphael again.
 Repeat the drawing in of colour and the flooding with white light.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 54
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 At the end of that time you should begin to have an understanding of the
 causes of your pain and how your body is reacting to trauma.
 It must be stressed that this method is not designed as a substitute
 for medical diagnosis. It is a method of pain management which
 links with subtle energies to bring about healing on different levels.
 You may need to explore further some of the insights this gives you.
 Good health wishing spell
 This spell is worked at the time of the New Moon and is
 incredibly simple to do. Bay leaves possess a great deal of
 magical power and are used for granting wishes. This spell can
 be used to fulfil a range of desires, and here is used to bring about
 health and happiness.
 You will need
 • 3 BAY LEAVES
 • PIECE OF PAPER
 • PENCIL OR PEN
 Method
 During a New Moon, write your wish on a 
piece of paper and visualize it coming true.
 Fold the paper into thirds, placing the three bay leaves inside.
 Fold the paper towards you.
 Again visualise your wish coming true.
 Fold the paper into thirds a second time, thus forming an envelope.
 Keep it hidden in a dark place.
 Reinforce your wish by repeatedly visualizing it coming true.
 When the wish comes true, burn the paper as a mark of thanks.
 This little envelope of power can also be included in a mojo or talis
man bag to add more power to it. In that case try to be as specific as
 you can in your wish. You can, using it this way, impose a time limit
 on the spell coming to fruition, though it is often better not to do
 so.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 55
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Reinforcing of a personal space
 In using the Goddess image as a focus this spell is
 representational. It uses a mirror to represent light and power
 and also uses numerology (the power of numbers) in the nine
 white candles. Nine signifies pure spirituality and therefore the
 highest energy available.
 You will need
 • MIRROR
 • 9 WHITE CANDLES
 • A PROTECTION INCENSE
 • AN EASILY HELD ROUND MIRROR
 • A REPRESENTATION OF THE GODDESS
 Method
 Light the incense.
 Place the candles in a ring around the Goddess image.
 Light the candles, beginning with the candle most directly before the Goddess
 image and each time repeat these or similar words:
 Light of Luna, 
Protect me now.
 When all are lit, hold the mirror so that it reflects the light of the candles.
 Turn slowly in each direction, ensuring that you throw the light as far as you
 can in each direction.
 Then spin round as many times as you have candles, continuing to project the
 light and say:
 Goddess of love, goddess of light,
 Protect this space.
 Pinch out the candles and put them away safely until you need to use them
 again.
 This technique is slightly unusual in that you pinch out the candles
 rather than allowing them to burn down. This is because it is the
 intensity of light which is required not the length of time it burns.
 This is a good way of rededicating your sacred space whenever you
 feel it necessary.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 56
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Glamour spell
 In many ways this is a spell about loving yourself, hence the use of
 pink candles and love oil. In the use of incantation you are
 making a link with the principle of beauty and with the Goddess
 of Beauty in one of her many forms.
 You will need
 • AT LEAST ONE PINK CANDLE, MORE IF YOU PREFER
 • A HANDHELD MIRROR
 • LOVE OIL
 Method
 Dress the candle(s) with the love oil, working towards you since you want to
 feel differently about yourself.
 Have in mind your ideal qualities of beauty as you do so.
 Light the candles and stare deeply into the mirror.
 See first the person you are now.
 Visualise the change you want.
 Then ‘see’ the person you would like to be.
 Recite this incantation out loud:
 Sacred flame as you dance
 Call upon my sacred glance.
 Call upon my better self,
 Give me [your request]
 Blessed flame shining brightly,
 Bring about the changes nightly
 Give me now my second chance
 My beauty and glamour please enhance
 Power of three, let them see, let them see, let them see.
 You can now snuff out the candle and relight it the next night, burning it for
 at least an hour.
 Repeat the incantation at least three times.
 The power of visualization is a very strong tool. Each of us has an
 inner beauty which if we work with it is a tremendous help in daily
 life. Once we are prepared to recognize it for ourselves it becomes
 evident to other people. This spell accomplishes that recognition.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 57
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Disperse negative emotion
 Here is a simple technique for dealing with negative energies
 such as anger and resentment. It uses the Elements and their
 qualities in a very positive way. The circle of light links with
 spirit, the dark stone represents Earth and the water acts in its
 cleansing capacity.
 You will need
 • A DARK STONE
 Method
 Visualize a circle of light around yourself.
 Hold the dark stone in your hands.
 Place it over your solar plexus.
 Allow the negative emotion, perhaps anger and resentment, to flow into the
 stone.
 Try to decide what colour the emotion is, and how it arose in the first place.
 It sometimes helps to counteract such an emotion by changing its colour
 Raise the stone first to your forehead to signify clarity.
 Then place it over your heart
 (this helps to raise the healing vibration to the correct level)
 If it seems right use words such as:
 With this stone
 Negative be gone,
 Let water cleanse it
 Back where it belongs.
 This reinforces the idea of the stone holding your anger.
 Concentrate & project all your negative emotion (Anger, resentment etc) into
 the stone.
 Visualize the emotion being sealed inside the stone.
 Now with all your energy, take the stone to a source of running water in the
 open air.
 It also helps if you can get up to a high place to throw your stone away, since
 this way you are using Air as well.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 58
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 This is a similar technique to the one on page 140 called A Wish
 Afloat except that here you are deliberately using the Elements to
 clear away negative emotion. This leaves space for positivity and
 good new things to come into your life. Under no circumstances
 should you allow the anger and resentment to build up again.
 Moon power
 This spell can be performed indoors as well as outside. It is
 representational since you use a paper moon or flower. In the
 incantation the Moon is represented as a white swan. This
 should be done at the time of the Full Moon and is designed to bring
 the energy of the Moon within your grasp until the next Full Moon.
 You will need
 • A BOWL OF WATER
 • WHITE PAPER MOON OR FLOWER
 Method
 Float the paper moon or flower in the bowl.
 Raise the bowl towards the Moon in the sky and say:
 Hail to thee white swan on the river.
 Present life, tide turner,
 Moving through the streams of life, all hail.
 Mother of old and new days,
 To you, through you, this night we cling to your aura.
 Pure reflection, total in belief, touched by your presence,
 I am in your power and wisdom.
 Praise your power, your peace, my power, my peace.
 I am strong. I praise. I bless.
 Replace the bowl on your altar. Stand for a few moments appreciating the
 power of the Moon.
 This spell is purely an incantation to the Moon and is therefore very
 simple. It needs no other tools or techniques except a physical repre
sentation of the Moon. Water is sacred to the Moon and therefore
 we offer her that which belongs to her.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 59
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Overcoming your shadows
 This spell, which signifies letting go the hurts of the past 
in a way that allows you to move forward with fresh energy
 into the future, can be performed at the time of the New
 Moon. By carrying it out every new moon you are gradually able 
to cleanse yourself of the detritus of the past, often as far back 
as childhood.
 You will need
 • CEDAR OR SAGE SMUDGING STICK OR CLEANSING INCENSE 
• WHITE CANDLE 
• ATHAME OR RITUAL KNIFE 
• BELL
 • CAKES AND WINE OR JUICE
 Method
 Cast your circle using the smudge stick or incense to ‘sweep’ the space as you
 move around the circle clockwise.
 Think of your space as being dome-shaped over your head and cleanse that
 space too. 
Ring the bell.
 With your arms raised, palms facing upwards, acknowledge the Goddess and
 say:
 Great Goddess,
 Queen of the Underworld,
 Protector of all believers in you,
 It is my will on this night of the new moon
 To overcome my shadows and bring about change.
 I invite you to this my circle to assist and protect me in my rite.
 Hold your athame or knife in your hands in acknowledgement of the God
 and say:
 Great God,
 Lord of the Upper realms,
 Friend of all who work with you,
 It is my will on this night of the new moon 
To overcome my shadows to bring about change. 
I invite you to my circle to assist me and protect me in my rite. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 60
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Light the candle and say:
 Behind me the darkness, in front of me the light
 As the wheel turns, I know that every end is a beginning.
 I see birth, death and regeneration.
 Spend a little time in quiet thought. If you can remember a time either in the
 last month or previously when times have not been good for you, concentrate
 on that.
 While the candle begins to burn properly remember what that time felt like.
 Now concentrate on the candle flame and allow yourself to feel the positivity
 of the light.
 Pick up the candle and hold it high above your head.
 Feel the energy of the light shower down around you, the negativity drain
 away.
 Now draw the power of the light into you and feel the energy in every pore.
 Pass the candle around you and visualise the energy building up.
 If you wish, say:
 Let the light cast out darkness.
 Now ground yourself by partaking of the food and drink.
 Thank the God and Goddess for their presence.
 Withdraw the circle .
 This is a very personal way for you to
 acknowledge the God and Goddess in your
 everyday life. While on first acquaintance
 it appears to be a protection technique,
 it is actually one to enhance your
 energies and to allow you to be
 healthy and happy in all levels of
 existence.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 61
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Healing a depression
 Depression is not an easy illness to handle and you should not
 regard spells such as this as a substitute for medical care.
 However a mojo or talisman bag can be of tremendous
 support in the process of getting better and has the effect of
 continually ‘topping up’ the energy needed to overcome difficulty.
 You will need
 • RED FLANNEL POUCH OR TALISMAN BAG
 • PIECE OF ANGELICA ROOT FOR A WOMAN
 • PINE CONE FOR A MAN
 • SPRIG OF ROSEMARY
 • SMALL DOG TAG, LUCKY COIN OR TOKEN
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • CLARY SAGE OIL TO DRESS THE OBJECTS AND TO USE AS INCENSE
 • YOUR BURIN OR A PIN
 Method
 If the person you are helping is a woman, then inscribe her initial on the
 angelica root and dress it with some of the clary sage oil.
 If a man then do the same with the pine cone.
 When using a lucky token or charm, take care to dedicate it specifically to the
 person concerned.
 Say something like:
 May this token of good luck bring healing to [name of person].
 With the dog tag inscribe it either with the person’s initials, their astrological
 sign or the rune symbol Kenaz for inner strength which is:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 62
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Repeat the words above as you do this.
 Now place the objects in the pouch.
 Light your candle and the incense.
 Dress the bag itself by dropping a little oil on it.
 Pass the bag and its contents through the incense smoke, all the while
 visualizing your subject well and happy.
 Pass it over the candle three times asking your favourite deity to help you in
 your task.
 Give the bag to the person concerned asking them to keep it with them at all
 times for at least a week.
 Your subject should sense an improvement in mood within the
 week. You can reinforce the bag’s efficiency every now and then by
 burning a candle for a short while and directing the energy at the
 bag. If you are not able to give the bag to the person concerned then
 hang it somewhere prominent so you are reminded of them occasion
ally and can send loving energy their way.
 Healing image spell
 This spell uses the very old technique of representing a person as
 a poppet or small doll. It is similar to To Know the Child
 Within on page 80, except that the poppet represents another
 person. Remember that healing takes place in the way that the
 recipient needs, not necessarily in the way we think it should happen.
 You will need
 • POPPET
 • BLUE CANDLE
 • SALT WATER
 Method
 Following the instructions on page 33 create your poppet to represent the
 person you wish to help already completely healed and whole.
 Take the doll into your sacred space.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 63
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Light the blue candle (to represent healing).
 Sprinkle your poppet with the salt water.
 Say:
 This figure I hold made by my art
 Here represents [name person],
 By my art made, by my art changed,
 Now may he/she be healed,
 By art divine.
 Pass the poppet quickly through the flame of the candle and visualize the
 person being cleansed of their problem.
 Hold the poppet in both hands, breathe gently on it and visualize first the
 poppet and then the person being filled with Divine healing energy.
 Pay particular attention to the areas in the physical body of your friend with
 which you know they are having difficulty.
 Imbue the poppet with the idea of being healed from a mental perspective.
 Think of spiritual energy infusing the doll, and therefore your friend, with
 the spiritual help that they need.
 Visualize the person concerned being completely filled with white light, well,
 happy and filled with energy.
 Keep the poppet in your sacred space until it is no longer needed.
 At this time, enter your sacred space, take the poppet, sprinkle it with water
 and say:
 By divine art changed,
 By my art made,
 Free this poppet from the connection with [name].
 Let it now be unmade.
 If the poppet contains direct links with the person - such as hair - burn it in
 an open fire. If it does not, dispose of it in any way you wish.
 If you have used a crystal at any point in this spell, this should be cleansed by
 holding it under running water and perhaps then given to the person as a
 keepsake or for protection.
 We are not just asking for alleviation of the symptoms, we are ask
ing for help from a holistic perspective. You do have a responsibility
 if you are working on someone else’s behalf to do nothing which
 will make matters worse for them, therefore think very seriously
 about using this method.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 64
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Healing others
 This is a spell using crystals, candles and incense. It is also
 representational in that you use the paper to represent the
 person you are healing. If you use an altar then work with
 that, but the spell can also be completed by recognizing that the
 space between the candles is sacred.
 You will need
 • 3 CANDLES:
 • Blue for healing
 • White for power
 • Pink for love
 • HEALING INCENSE 
(1 part allspice, 1 part rosemary)
 • PAPER WITH NAME OF THE PERSON
 YOU WISH TO BE HEALED
 • CLEAR QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 Method
 Place the candles on the altar or in your sacred space in a semi-circle, with the
 white candle in the middle.
 Allow the incense to be on the left if the recipient is a woman, on the right if
 male. Light the incense.
 Place the paper with the person’s name in the centre.
 Put the quartz crystal on top of the paper.
 Be aware of your own energy linking with whatever you consider to be the
 Divine.
 Breathe in the incense and feel your energy increasing.
 When you feel ready, release the energy.
 Imagine it passing through the crystal - which enhances it - to the recipient.
 As you are doing this, say:
 [Name] be healed by the gift of this Power
 Remember that healing energy is used by the recipient in whatever
 way is appropriate to them. A physical condition may not necessari
ly be healed, but you may have started an overall healing process.
 Often the person is given the emotional strength to withstand their
 trials and tribulations so that an inner healing occurs.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 65
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Magical writing
 This spell uses magically charged paper and ink. You can do this
 by following the instructions on page 17. If the request is to
 increase something, it is done between New Moon and Full. To
 minimize or get rid of something then it should be done during the
 Dark of the Moon or when the Moon is on the wane.
 You will need
 • PAPER (either real parchment or parchment type)
 • QUILL PEN, OR IF YOU CAN FIND ONE A FEATHER SHARPENED TO A
 POINT
 • INK IN THE CORRECT COLOUR FOR YOUR REQUEST (see page 45)
 • CANDLE, AGAIN IN THE CORRECT COLOUR FOR YOUR REQUEST
 • APPROPRIATE INCENSE
 Method
 Light the candle and the incense
 (for instance, use green for fertility or money and perhaps blue for healing).
 Write out your request carefully.
 Some people will write it three times, others nine.
 Simply do what feels right for you.
 Hold the paper in the smoke from the incense for as long as feels right.
 Fold the paper into three and place it under the candle.
 Let the candle burn out, but just before it does burn the paper in the flame.
 Alternatively, you might bury the paper in fresh earth and allow time to work
 slowly. As you become more proficient your intuition to guide you.
 This spell relies on a principle similar to that of sending a letter to
 Santa Claus. The magically charged paper can also be used to
 address the gods by name and can be used for yourself and on behalf
 of others. If you petition for others, however, do not tell them what
 you are doing, as it nullifies the good. Using magically charged
 paper and ink can become an integral part of your spell making.
 You may like to have some ready prepared and charged so that as
 your knowledge of symbolism increases, rather than writing out
 your request in longhand, you can use symbols to signify your
 desires. You might, for instance, use a key to symbolise your need for
 a house, the picture of an anvil to suggest partnership and a sheaf of
 corn to suggest abundance. You could also use symbolic languages
 such as the Runes.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 66
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Physical body change
 In this spell you are using the power of the crystal to make
 changes. By bringing the problem out into the open you are
 creating a way to a change on an inner level which brings healing
 with it. This can be done at the time of the New Moon.
 You will need
 • SMALL PIECE OF PAPER
 • PEN
 • QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 • SOME STRING
 Method
 Take the piece of paper and write your name on it.
 Draw on it what part of the body you want
 changed and what you want to look like.
 If you want to change more than one area, draw
 the whole body and mark what you would like to
 change.
 Hold the paper in your hands and imagine the
 body-part changing from what it looks like now
 to what you want it to look like.
 Fold the paper up any way you like and tie it to
 the crystal.
 Once more visualize the body part changing again.
 When you feel that changes are taking place, 
untie the string, tear the paper up and scatter it to
 the wind.
 If you wish, you can bury the crystal to signify
 the fact that you have internalized the changes you
 have made.
 This spell is very good for changing aspects
 you don’t like. It may take a few days or
 even longer to see results, so please be
 patient. The spell should not be used to try
 to heal conditions of a medical nature.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 67
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Purifying emotions
 This spell is one that helps you to release negativity and distress
 that may build up when you do not feel that you are in
 control of your life. It uses the four Elements to do this and
 may be performed on any evening during a Waning Moon. It has
 been kept deliberately simple so that you can spend more time in
 learning how to make your emotions work for you rather than
 letting them overwhelm you.
 You will need
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • BOWL OF WATER
 • BOWL OF SALT
 • DRIED HERBS (such as sage for wisdom)
 • A VESSEL IN WHICH THE HERBS CAN BE BURNED
 Method
 Stand in your sacred space and say:
 I call upon the elements in this simple ceremony
 that I may be cleansed from the contamination 
of negativity.
 Wave your hand over or through the flame and say:
 I willingly release negative action in my fire.
 Rub salt on your hands and say:
 I release stumbling blocks and obstacles in my earth.
 Light the herbs, wave the smoke in front of you, inhale the perfume as it
 burns and say:
 I clear my air of unwise thoughts.
 Dip your hands in the water and say:
 I purify this water.
 Let this relinquishing be gentle.
 Purified, cleansed and released in all ways,
 I now acknowledge my trust and faith in my own clarity.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 68
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Spend a little time thinking about the next few weeks to come.
 Recognize that there may be times when you need the clarity you
 have just requested.
 Now dispose of the ingredients immediately.
 Put the salt in with the ashes then pour the water on the ground so that it
 mingles with the ashes and salt.
 It is helpful to find some sort of ceremonial way of releasing energy
 which enables you to let go of an old situation. A good time to do
 this is just before a New Moon, so that you can begin a fresh cycle
 with renewed vigour.
 To cure sickness
 Knot magic is good for getting rid of illnesses; this spell is one
 that will help to do this. It works on the principle of binding
 the illness into the cord, so is a form of sympathetic magic
 combined with positive thought.
 You will need
 • 8-INCH LENGTH OF CORD
 • PENCIL AND PAPER
 • CONTAINER OF SALT
 Method
 Mark the cord six times so that you have seven equal lengths.
 Take a few deep breaths and feel your energy connecting with the Earth.
 Repeat the following words six times and tie a knot in the cord each time:
 Sickness, no one bids you stay.
 It’s time for you to fade away.
 Through these knots I bid you leave,
 By these words which I do weave.
 Put the cord in the container of salt (this represents burying in the Earth).
 Create a seal for the container with the above incantation written on the paper.
 Dispose of the container, perhaps in running water.
 The number six has particular relevance here: it is widely accepted as
 the number of the Sun, which is restorative and regenerative.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 69
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Dream power
 When you need to make someone aware of something,
 perhaps a healing energy or information that they need to
 make a decision, it is possible to influence their dreams,
 without them being aware that you have had anything to do with
 the matter. You actually make a link for them to higher authority.
 You will need
 • A SQUARE OF FABRIC
 • NEEDLE AND THREAD
 • COTTON WOOL OR OTHER
 STUFFING
 • HANDFUL OF HERBS OR A FEW DROPS OF
 ESSENTIAL OIL (preferably lavender and rosemary)
 • PAPER AND PEN
 Method
 Sit quietly in your sacred space, gather your thoughts and decide precisely what
 it is you want the person to hear, or perhaps feel.
 Write down your wish on the piece of paper in as few words as possible.
 Make a dream pillow using the square of fabric and stuffing.
 Add a quantity of lavender and rosemary or a few drops of oil.
 Put in the piece of paper last, then sew up the end.
 Put the dream pillow on your altar.
 Because this is on behalf of someone else you might wish to reinforce your
 sacred space for your petition.
 Gather your energy into your solar plexus then hold your hands over the
 dream pillow.
 As you do this say the following:
 Goddess Divine Holy Mother,
 I petition you herein for another.
 [Name] does not understand
 Creating trouble quite unplanned
 Holy Mother, Goddess Divine,
 Send a dream, awaken the mind.
 Show the way through, the way that’s right
 Give them the truth by clear starlight
 Holy Mother, Goddess Divine,
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 70
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Open the way for a clear sign
 Bring them clarity while they sleep
 So much from experience that they can reap.
 Change the incantation to suit your purpose if you wish.
 You might give the dream pillow to the person concerned as a gift or hang it
 in a prominent place in your own sacred space.
 Remember that this does not force a person into any particular
 course of action. This spell allows them to make decisions which are
 right for them, and you know you have done all you can to help. You
 have acted as wisely as you know how.
 Petition to the Horned God
 Cernunnos means ‘The Horned One’ and in this spell he is
 invoked as the God of hidden knowledge and of movement
 through our own difficulties. Because of his virility he has a
 lust for life that we all need. The spell is probably best done at sunrise
 and in the open air.
 You will need
 • A CLEAR SPACE IN WOODS
 • STONE MARKERS FOR THE FOUR COMPASS DIRECTIONS
 • SOME GREEN BRANCHES 
(preferably of oak but otherwise your favoured sacred tree)
 Method
 Place your stones according to the four directions and while you do this listen
 to the sounds around you.
 You may become aware of a change in energy, in which case acknowledge the
 presence of the nature spirits.
 Place the branches (sacred to Cernunnos) close to the centre where you are
 working, which has now become your sacred space.
 Stand in the centre of your sacred space.
 Put your hands in the God position (arms outstretched). 
Say:
 Great Horned Leader of the Hounds
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 71
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Lord Cernunnos hear my call
 You, who move with the rhythm of the forests
 Upon your knowledge let me draw
 Potent Huntsman who dances with the serpent
 Of knowledge, forever virile and gracious
 Grant me the power of potent movement
 Let me move too within the mysterious
 Speaker with the ancient shamans
 Who bridge this world and the next
 Unstoppable as force of nature
 Aid my footsteps forward free from the past.
 Now stand quietly drawing on the power of Cernunnos as you contemplate
 your next life move.
 Deliberately put the past behind you and resolve to move forward with all
 courage and speed.
 When your ceremony is complete scatter the stones and the branches so that
 you leave no trace behind.
 This is not a spell to help you make a decision, more one to increase
 your energy levels. It is more to help you to move forward swiftly,
 to allow matters to drop into place so that your path forward can be
 unimpeded. The assumption is that you have already decided what
 you want to do.
 Calling the Dryads
 As you become more proficient at using energies, you will find
 a need to link with nature spirits and spirits of the elements.
 These energies are very subtle and the incantations used in
 this spell acknowledge that subtlety.
 You will need
 • BIRTHDAY CAKE CANDLES OF DIFFERENT COLOURS
 • ICE CREAM STICKS OR NUTSHELLS SUCH AS WALNUTS
 • WATER IN A NATURAL POOL, POND OR BOWL
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 72
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Method
 Use different colour candles to attract different ‘families’ of Dryad.
 Fix the candles into the half shells or onto the slivers of wood with hot wax.
 (This can be very fiddly, but be patient. Use half candles if this is easier.)
 Light each candle with a blessing and float your boats on the surface of the
 water.
 Send loving thoughts to the Nature spirits and ask them to join you.
 You might use an invocation such as:
 Awake you spirits of the forest green
 Join me now
 Let yourselves be seen.
 Now sit quietly and just listen.
 Shortly you will sense the presence of the Dryads, often as there are strange
 rustlings in the trees or vegetation.
 You may feel them as they brush past you or play around you.
 Initially you will probably not be able to differentiate between them, but as
 time goes on you will sense subtle differences.
 Half close your eyes and see if you can see them.
 Again don’t be too disappointed if nothing happens immediately, just accept
 that you will be aware of them eventually.
 Now, invite them to play with you:
 Come, Dryads all, come join with me
 Explore Earth, Sky, Sand and Sea
 Show me, guide me, take my hands
 Together thus, we see new lands
 New vistas, new horizons and knowledge of old
 Come together, in power enfold.
 When they are comfortable with you, and you with them,
 thank them for coming and leave the area tidy.
 You can leave the candles to burn out if it is safe to do so.
 While it may seem strange to be invoking spirits of
 Earth or greenery, a little thought will show you that
 all living things are interconnected and this is simply
 one way of making such a connection.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 73
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 The spell of the shell
 This is a lunar spell calling on the power of the Moon and the
 waves. It is also representational because the shell is a long
 accepted symbol for the Goddess and signifies her ability to
 take all things to her and effect changes. In this example, we use an
 Ogham Stave to represent healing, though the spell can be used for
 other purposes as well.
 You will need
 • SHELL
 • A SYMBOL OF YOUR DESIRE
 • FINE NIBBED MARKER PEN
 Method
 To perform this spell, you must find a suitable shell in shallow water.
 Take the shell and dry it thoroughly.
 Draw your chosen symbol upon the surface of the shell.
 For healing, we suggest the Edhadh Ogham Stave:
 Place the shell upon the shore so that the tide will bring the waves across the shell.
 When the shell is in place, draw a triangle in the sand, enclosing the shell
 completely.
 The symbol upon the shell must be facing upwards (towards the Moon).
 Meaningful words, or phrases, may be placed upon the shell also, or simply
 written in the sand (inside the triangle).
 Finally, face the Moon and say the following words of enchantment:
 Goddess of Moon, Earth and Sea,
 Each wish in thy name must come to be.
 Powers and forces which tides do make,
 Now summon thy waves, my spell to take.
 Leave the area now and the spell is set.
 Once the waves come, then your wish will be taken out to the spirits of the sea.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 74
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 It will usually take about seven days for a lunar spell to begin to manifest, but
 it can take as long as 28 days.
 This type of magic is what we called ‘little works’ and belongs to the
 folk-magic level of spell making. Take care to note the phase of the
 Moon (waxing for the gain of something, waning for the dissolving
 of something).You are using natural objects which to the uninitiated
 mean nothing.
 To clear evil intent
 This spell can be used if you suspect that somebody is directing
 unhelpful energy towards you which is making you sick.
 Words have particular force, so in expressing your feelings
 forcibly as in line 2 of the incantation, you are turning the energy
 back on the perpetrator.
 You will need
 • LENGTH OF STRING
 • BOTTLE
 Method
 Tie a knot in the string.
 Place it in the bottle and bury it in earth.
 After three days dig it up.
 Put the bottle on the floor or ground and say:
 A curse on me you buried deep
 To make me sick, you nasty creep.
 I placed a knot into this twine
 And so your work was worked in vain.
 Shatter the bottle, carefully pick up the string and undo the knot; the original
 curse is now invalid.
 Dispose of the bottle remains in any way that you feel is appropriate. 
Burn the cord and blow the ashes to the wind.
 In some ways this could be called a protection spell, but since the
 ‘curse’ could cause you to be ill this spell guards your wellbeing. The
 curse is transferred by the power of your spell to the cord, which is
 then disposed of by burning. The assumption is that your magic is
 stronger than the person who has wished you ill.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 75
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 To drive away bad dreams
 This spell uses herbal magic and correspondences to clear the
 bedroom of negative influence. It is often a good idea to use
 material which is easily available so you might use sprigs of
 rosemary, sage, ladies bedstraw or maize silks (broom corn). Since
 you want something taken away you should perform this magical
 working as the moon wanes.
 You will need
 • BOWL OF WARM WATER
 • SALT
 • YOUR CHOSEN SPRIGS OF HERBS
 • STRING
 Method
 Dissolve the salt in the 
warm water.
 Tie the herbs together.
 Dip the sprigs in the water and
 sprinkle the corners of the room with
 the water.
 Next use the sprigs to sprinkle the salt
 water on your bedclothes, and
 particularly round the head and foot of
 the bed.
 When you have done this, place the herbs
 under your pillow, or if you prefer, under
 the middle of the bed.
 The next morning,, discard the herbs at a crossroads if you can, either
 by burying them or allowing them to disperse to the four winds. Otherwise
 ensure that you have carried them well away from your home.
 This carries all negativity away from your bedroom and bed.
 This spell uses rosemary which brings clarity, sage for wisdom, ladies
 bedstraw which is said to have lined the manger at Christ’s birth,
 and broom corn, which is used in worship of the Mexican goddess
 Chicomecohuatl. All these herbs bring cleansing, not just of the
 room but also of the occupant’s aura or subtle energy. On the basis
 that one should always replace negative with positive, you may like
 to use the following technique to bring about positive dreams.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 76
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Asking for the dreams you want
 This technique is most successful for those who have learnt to
 trust their intuition and perhaps have already learnt how to
 recall and record their dreams. This technique works because
 the lines of communication have already been established between
 the conscious and unconscious self - the inner and the outer world.
 Just as initially one might send a simple e-mail, so later one learns to send
 links and attachments giving more and more complex information. For this
 reason the method also works well for those who have learnt to meditate, or
 for those who use other kinds of self management tools such as creative
 visualization or chanting.
 It is of most use when there is a strong, passionate, deeply-felt association
 with the request or question. The technique is a very easy one, particularly if
 one has learned through work or other experience to remain focussed on issues
 at hand. You simply remember to use as a memory jogger the word CARDS:
 • Clarify the ssue
 • Ask the question
 • Repeat it
 • Dream and document it
 • Study the dream
 C means that you spend some time in clarifying exactly what the issue really
 is. If you are using dreams to help you in working magically you need to be
 very clear as to what energies you are planning to use.
 If using your own power, you need to be able to trust the link with your
 own subconscious, if calling on powers beyond yourself, you equally need to
 be able to trust those links. By identifying these basic issues you are then able to
 make a more effective link with the correct stream of knowledge - to tune into
 the right channel.
 Try to state the issue as positively as you can, because the subconscious tends
 to latch on to negative statements in preference to positive. You might say, 
‘I require guidance as to how to achieve my aims’, or you could say, ‘I 
require help in achieving my aims’. It also helps to be quite specific in your
 choice of words.
 A suggests that you make your request with as much relevance as possible.
 Using an old journalistic technique, ask the questions ‘who, what, where, when
 and why’ and sort out in your own mind exactly what the relevant topic is.
 For instance, you might ask:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 77
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Who can best help?
 What must I do?
 Where do the best opportunities lie for achieving my aims?
 When will I be able to use my greater experience?
 Why have I created the circumstances I have?
 All of these questions are, of course, open and are not necessarily time specific.
 If you ask a question based on confused thinking you may well receive a
 confusing answer, so always try to get as close to the heart of the matter as
 you can. Conversely, by making inappropriate demands you may notch up
 answers you do not wish to have, and your magical technique based on your
 dreams may not work.
 Repeat the question. By repeating the question over and over again, you are
 fixing it in your subconscious. Often blocks of three repetitions work very
 well, so repeating three sets of three means that you have covered all possible
 bases - practical, emotional and spiritual.
 The art of Dream Command, as it might be called, is that of informing your
 inner self that you will have a dream which will help you to achieve your
 objective. As you compose yourself for sleep and use whichever relaxation
 techniques help you, you must tell yourself that you will have a dream which
 will give you an answer or the assistance that you need.
 One word of warning. It is difficult to say what will actually happen since
 it will be pertinent to you and what you are doing, rather than being a
 ‘blanket’ answer. The dreaming self is quite capricious, so to begin with you
 may not receive an answer on the night you requested it. You may only
 receive part of an answer, or nothing for several nights, and then a series of
 dreams which tell you what you need to know. It is a highly individual
 process, and no-one can tell you how it should be. With time you will
 recognize your own pattern, but be prepared to be patient with yourself.
 Dream it. When you do dream, document it briefly as soon as you can,
 noting down the main theme of the dream. With practice you will recognize
 the difference between a dream which helps you to clear away the everyday
 problems and one which is more to do with magical guidance. Look carefully
 at the imagery within the dream which will probably be fairly clear-cut and
 straightforward.
 Study the dream in more detail when you have time enough to do so. Look
 for details, clues and hidden meanings, and see whether you can apply any or
 all of them to situations in hand. Sometimes the answer to your request can
 come from applying your knowledge to a different sector of your life, before
 tackling the information for which you have asked.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 78
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 To get rid of warts
 Warts have been said to be the mark of magic so you may
 wear yours with pride! If you find them unsightly then try
 this simple, safe spell from folklore. Ideally done at the time
 of the Waning Moon, this spell involves no pain and should not leave
 any trace of the wart.
 You will need
 • HIGHER VIBRATION INCENSE SUCH AS
 SANDALWOOD
 • COIN FOR EACH WART 
(ideally it should be a copper coin that you have had 
for a while but this is not essential)
 • SPADE OR TROWEL
 Method
 Light the incense.
 Prepare your coin by holding it in the incense smoke for no more than half a
 minute.
 Charge the coin with your personal energy.
 Rub the coin on the wart saying these words over in your head for as long as
 you feel is needed:
 Blemish begone, do not return
 Leave no scar nor mark nor burn.
 Visualize the wart transferring to the coin
 When this is done bury the coin in the earth, this time saying the above words
 out loud.
 Forget about the coin and within a calendar month the wart should be gone.
 This spell can be done on others. Modern day medicines can be
 harsh and wart remedies which burn them off usually burn the skin
 as well. Children especially may find the burning of warts uncom
fortable and this is a safe alternative that can be fun to try.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 79
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 To know the child within
 This spell is a variation on a technique which appreciates that
 we all have aspects of ourselves which can go unrecognized
 and therefore undeveloped. By using your sacred space in
 which to work, you are enhancing the connection you make to that
 part which remains childlike. The main tool is visualization.
 You will need
 • A GREEN OR BLUE CANDLE TO SIGNIFY HEALING
 • AN INCENSE OR ESSENTIAL OIL WHICH REMINDS
 YOU OF YOUR CHILDHOOD
 • A DOLL OR POPPET TO SIGNIFY THE CHILD YOU
 ONCE WERE
 • SALT WATER
 • WHITE CLOTH
 • YOUR ALTAR, WHICH COULD JUST BE A TABLE
 WHICH YOU DEDICATE TO THIS PURPOSE
 Method
 Light your candle and the incense.
 Choose a particularly good childhood memory.
 Hold the poppet in your arms and think about the child you once were.
 Now treat the poppet as though it were a child.
 Say:
 I name you [use your own childhood name or nickname]
 Hold it in your arm, croon to it, rock it, and talk to it.
 Tell it everything you would have liked to hear as a child.
 Imagine that it talks to you and tells you how it feels and what it wants.
 You may even hear your own childish voice.
 Let your own voice change in response. Play with the poppet.
 Now become aware of your adult self again.
 Sprinkle the doll with a little salt water to cleanse away the negative past
 Raise your own energy by whatever method you prefer - breathing, colour, a
 brief meditation or an appeal to the gods.
 Visualize yourself pouring that positive energy into the doll, which represents
 your own inner self.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 80
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Imagine the child you would have liked to have been, and project that image
 into your doll.
 Continue until you can feel a change in the energy and you feel at peace.
 (During that time you may find that you are crying or laughing just like a child.
 This is simply a release of energy and is perfectly acceptable.)
 You may find that the poppet or doll begins to feel vibrant and alive, glowing
 with white light and love.
 Kiss the doll.
 Wrap it in white cloth as you would a baby and lay it to rest on your altar.
 Leave the candle to burn out.
 Leave your sacred space secure.
 It is important that you give yourself time now to return to normal,
 so you will need to spend a little time just appreciating the person
 you have become. Ground yourself by whatever method you
 choose, touching the ground, taking a walk, having a bath or what
ever you prefer. A nurturing activity such as cooking is also good.
 You will probably find after this technique that you tend to dream
 somewhat vividly, as you uncover some of the joys and hurts of
 childhood.
 Radiant health
 This spell uses invocation to enable a person to attain and
 maintain radiant and perpetual health. You can enhance the
 energy by finding an open space, free of pollution. and using
 sunlight, moonlight, wind or rain as part of the process. Sunday is an
 ideal day to perform this spell as this is the day that health matters
 are highlighted.
 You will need
 • AN OPEN SPACE OR YOUR SACRED SPACE
 • YOUR OWN BODY
 • CORIANDER SEEDS TIED IN A SMALL MUSLIN BAG
 Method
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 81
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 First sense your own aura - your subtle energies which make you unique.
 Hold your hands over your heart area and then move them down to just
 below your solar plexus. You should sense a change in energy in your hands.
 This is the point in your body sometimes called the ‘point of power’, the place
 where your life energy resides.
 Now, facing the east with your arms spread wide and the palms of your
 hands upwards, say the following:
 Great God of the Heavens, and Lord of All Power,
 Grant me the right to feel and perceive the true life force that is
 mine,
 So that I may have everlasting well being.
 Grant me, O Great God, this favour.
 Now run your hands around your body from top to toe in a sweeping
 motion, not quite touching your body.
 Raise your arms again and visualize the Universal healing energy sweeping
 towards you as you repeat the incantation above.
 Take a deep breath, visualizing and feeling the energy being drawn in and
 down to the solar plexus.
 As you slowly exhale, see the energy travelling to your extremities and filling
 you with power and healing.
 Do this at least three times or for up to fifteen minutes at a time.
 Place your hands on your point of power and repeat the incantation a third
 time, this time sensing the energy settling into your point of power.
 If you are in an open space become aware of the power of sunlight, moonlight,
 wind or rain.
 Finally take a ritual bath into which you have put the coriander seeds.
 The purpose of this spell is not to cure you of any ailment but, by
 enhancing your energy, to help your health overall. Please always
 seek the services of a qualified doctor or health practitioner if you
 know, or suspect, your health is compromised in any way. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 82
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 To protect a newborn baby
 This is a charming custom first used to protect a newborn baby
 from the ‘evil eye’– an influence put on someone without
 their consent or knowledge. Babies are said to be especially
 vulnerable and in Greece they are given a gift to ensure their safety.
 This spell uses crystals and symbolism.
 You will need
 • BLUE BEAD 
(preferably of lapis lazuli which is
 considered a stone of truth and
 friendship)
 • SAFETY PIN
 • COPAL OR CEDAR INCENSE
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • BOWL OF SALT
 • BOWL OF WATER
 Method
 The blue stone is reputed to bring about harmony in relationships and to help its
 wearer to be true to themselves ,who then may openly state his or her opinion.
 Copal incense is one of the purest and most sacred that there is. It is believed to
 help open the soul and can stimulate imagination, intuition and creativity. The
 Mayans would only handle it with special instruments.
 Cedar is used to carry prayers to the Creator. It is used to bridge the gap
 between heaven and earth and is often associated with breaking misuse of
 power or powerful forces that may be having a negative influence.
 Light the candle and the incense.
 Pass the bead and then the pin through the candle flame, the smoke, the salt
 and the water.
 Repeat the following as many times as you feel necessary:
 Great Mother, I ask protection for [name]
 That he/she may not come to harm
 From forces of evil on this or any other plane.
 Put the bead on the safety pin and say:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 83
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Through this gift I thee implore
 Keep him/her safe for evermore.
 Now pass the bead and safety pin three times through the incense smoke, being
 aware of the power that is available to protect the new arrival.
 Traditionally the gift is then pinned safely to the baby’s shawl.
 Let the candle burn out.
 Since a baby is still so close to its Creator, only the best and highest
 vibrational incenses and materials are used. Apart from the actual
 tangible gift, you have also opened the way for much more subtle
 gifts of the spirit as the child grows up.
 Balancing your energies
 This spell principally uses the energy of the earth and of candles.
 The spell can be performed either during the day if you
 particularly appreciate the light, or at night when you honour
 the Moon. Often it is good to perform it outside as an appreciation
 of energy returning to the earth.
 You will need
 • FRESH FLOWERS FOR YOUR SACRED SPACE
 • SINGLE WHITE FLOWER
 • BOWL OF WATER LARGE ENOUGH TO HOLD THE FLOWER
 • GREEN AND YELLOW CANDLES
 • JASMINE OR ROSE INCENSE
 Method
 Prepare your sacred space as usual, making sure you use plenty of fresh
 flowers to decorate.
 Float the single white flower in the bowl of water, thinking all the time of its
 beauty.
 Light the candles, thinking all the while of the freshness of Mother Nature’s
 energies.
 Light the incense and become aware of the differing perfumes created.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 84
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 Quietly consider the cycle and power of Nature.
 Stand with your feet about 18 inches apart.
 Become aware of your connection with the earth, mentally reaching towards
 the centre through the soles of your feet.
 Feel the energy rising through you towards the light.
 Reach towards the light and feel its energy moving downwards through you.
 Let those energies mingle with those of the earth.
 Allow the new energies to swirl around and through you, cleansing, healing
 and balancing.
 Say:
 Ostara lady of flowers and strong new life
 Be born anew in me tonight.
 When you feel refreshed ground yourself by running your hands over your
 body from head to toe.
 Sit quietly for a short while and contemplate how you will use your new
 energy.
 Finally, allow your energy to settle in your solar plexus.
 This spell is designed to replace old stale energy with new vital force.
 You should come away feeling refreshed and invigorated. 
It originates from a ritual dedicated to the goddess Ostara, whose
 festival was the Spring Equinox (21st March). It celebrates the 
life-renewing qualities of the goddess and would have been used 
long before Christians adopted some of its symbolism in their 
Easter festival.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 85
HEALTH ANDHEALING
 To enhance confidence
 In the old days many people thought that noise was a way of
 getting rid of demons, so it was customary to shout when
 banishing such nasty things. Today we also recognise that
 psychologically we can be encouraged by passion, so this is a way of
 self-encouragement, and an appeal to our own inner demons.
 You will need
 • A BELL OR RATTLE
 • ROUSING MUSIC
 • YOUR VOICE
 Method
 Choose a short affirmation which expresses your best hopes for yourself
 These might be:
 I will survive
 I can overcome any problem
 I have the confidence to do anything
 I am my own best friend
 Preferably choose a time when you will not disturb others and when you will
 not be disturbed.
 Play your music until you feel uplifted by its mood.
 Take up your bell or rattle and dance around the room.
 Proclaim your affirmation at the top of your voice at least three times, and
 preferably nine. When the music finishes, resolve to do three different things
 in the next week which demonstrate your new-found confidence.
 Each week reaffirm your confidence in the same way, changing the words as
 necessary.
 This spell does seem to have an almost immediate effect. Even if you
 feel silly at first, having confidence is often about losing your inhibi
tions, and this is one way which can help. As a support for this, so
 you have a visual image, have fun drawing your own demon even if
 it is only as a stick figure. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 86
Love and relationships
 The majority of people probably first become aware of spell
 making in an effort to influence someone else’s feelings 
in their favour. While strictly this is apparently a misuse of
 energy there is a place for such spells in that they help 
to make us feel better about ourselves and more confident in
 dealing with other people. They perhaps influence us 
as much as other people.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 87
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To clarify relationships
 The art of braiding is one which can be used in spell making to
 represent many things. In this particular spell it is used to
 signify the coming together of three people and in the
 unbraiding an amicable resolution. In the use of colour the spell is
 focused either on the outcome or on the people concerned.
 You will need
 • 3 LENGTHS OF RIBBON OF SUITABLE COLOUR
 You can use astrological colours to represent each person or you can use one colour to
 represent the situation
 For example:
 • Red for a relationship soured by anger
 • Blue for a business relationship
 • Green for a relationship in which finance is importance
 • Yellow where communication is difficult
 Method
 Decide before you begin what it is you are trying to achieve.
 If it is important to bring people together, then as you are braiding you will
 concentrate on this.
 If it is seen as necessary for them to go their separate ways, while you are
 braiding you will concentrate on the intricacies of the situation and perhaps the
 ability to bring about open and frank discussion.
 Once you have finished braiding, you have a completely new object which is a
 representation of the relationship between the various parties.
 You should now dedicate the braid to the best outcome for that relationship.
 Put the braid somewhere safe for at least 72 hours, preferably in constant
 moonlight and sunlight.
 Only when the reason for the relationship is fulfilled (e.g. reconciliation
 between people, full honest communication, a successful business partnership)
 can you think of dismantling the braid.
 As you undo it ask that the people involved can go forward in life in
 whatever way is appropriate for them, gaining what they have needed from
 their association.
 You may of course wish to keep the braid without undoing it.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 88
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Do not use the ribbons for other magical purposes.
 A braiding spell comes under the heading of a knot spell and is a gen
tle way of affecting the outcome of a situation. It is, of course, not
 necessarily a quick way of resolving anything but is often surprising
 in its outcome.
 To focus your lover’s interest
 If you find that your partner’s attention seems to be wandering,
 try this spell. It is best performed on a Friday, the day sacred to
 Venus the Goddess of Love.
 You will need
 • A CLEAN PIECE OF PAPER
 • A PEN YOU LIKE (you can use your
 magical implements if you like)
 Method
 Taking your pen, write your first name and
 your lover’s surname on the paper.
 Draw either a square or circle around them.
 (Use the square if you decide all you want is
 a physical relationship, and the circle if you are
 utterly convinced this person is right for you.)
 With your eyes closed say:
 If it be right, come back to me.
 Cut the square or circle out and place it inside your pillowcase for at least three
 nights.
 Your lover should show renewed interest.
 This is one spell that occasionally does not work. It is said that Venus
 will not assist if there is any intrinsic reason for the relationship not
 to work out - for instance, if your partner no longer loves you, you
 may be unsuccessful in your aim. This you must accept, knowing
 you have done the best you can.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 89
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To bring romantic love to you
 This spell uses herbs, crystals, candle and colour. The herb
 rosemary traditionally signifies long memory, the rose quartz
 crystal signifies love and the colours signify love and passion.
 It is designed to concentrate the mind and to attract love to you as
 opposed to a specific lover.
 You will need
 • A SPRIG OF ROSEMARY (for remembrance)
 • A PIECE OF ROSE QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 • ROSE OR VANILLA INCENSE
 • PINK OR RED VOTIVE CANDLE
 • SMALL BOX
 • RED MARKER/PEN
 Method
 Sit in your own most powerful place.
 (That might be inside, outside, near your favourite tree or by running water.)
 First, write in red on the box ‘Love is mine’.
 Light the incense - this clears the atmosphere and puts you in the right mood.
 Put the rosemary and the rose quartz in the box.
 Put anything else that represents love to you in the box (drawings of hearts,
 poems, or whatever - be creative).
 Remember, this spell is to attract love to you, not a specific lover
 so don’t use a representation of a particular person.
 Be in a very positive state of mind.
 Imagine yourself very happy and in love.
 Burn the candle and say:
 I am love
 love I will find
 true love preferably
 will soon be mine
 Love is me
 Love I seek
 my true love
 I will soon meet.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 90
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Now sit for a little while and concentrate again on being happy.
 Then pinch out the candle and add it to the box.
 Let the incense burn out.
 Seal the box shut and don’t open it until you have found your true love.
 When you have found your lover, take the rose quartz out of the box and
 keep it as a reminder.
 Bury the entire box in the earth.
 Because in this spell you reproduce a positive state of mind and you
 are imagining what it is like to be in love, you set up a current of
 energy which attracts like feeling. In sealing the box you ‘capture’ the
 vibration of love and all things become possible.
 To clear the air between lovers
 When communication between you and your partner seems
 difficult, you can forge a new link using this spell, which is
 representational. You will need to have confidence in your
 own power though.
 You will need
 • A CRYSTAL BALL OR MAGNIFYING GLASS
 • YOUR PARTNER’S PHOTOGRAPH
 Method
 Place the crystal or magnifying glass over the image of your partner’s face.
 Because the features are magnified, the eyes and mouth will appear to move
 and come to life.
 Simply state your wishes or difficulties and what you feel your lover can do
 about them.
 He/she will get the message.
 This method of working is very simple, but you do have to trust
 that you yourself are an able transmitter. Often we do not realise
 how difficult communication can be and here we are trying to make
 your partner understand how you feel, not to change them.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 91
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Chocolate and strawberry delight
 Chocolate is said to be an aphrodisiac, a mild euphoric, and
 helps to heal depression. It is therefore extremely effective in
 love potions and spells. In this spell two ingredients are
 brought together to help you to enchant your loved one.
 Strawberries are well known as lovers’ fruits.
 You will need
 • STRAWBERRY INCENSE
 • PINK CANDLES
 • A PLATE OF STRAWBERRIES
 • MELTED CHOCOLATE
 Method
 Be very clear in your own mind what you want to happen before you start. 
Be aware that it is not right to influence the other person against their will or
 their natural inclinations.
 You should use this spell to prepare the ground for true relationship.
 Light the candles and the incense.
 Dip each strawberry in the chocolate.
 As you do so, visualise you and the other person together enjoying one
 another’s company, becoming closer and so on.
 Say the words below (or something similar) as you prepare the fruit:
 Lover, lover, come to me
 And even then you shall be free
 To come, to go just as you please
 Until to stay your heart decrees.
 Do be aware that you have not put a time limit on this so if you cannot
 handle such an open relationship choose different words.
 As you enjoy the fruit together be prepared to take responsibility for what
 occurs.
 This spell can be quite powerful, particularly if you use the same
 pink candles when your lover arrives. Strawberries and chocolate
 both come under the rulership of Venus the Goddess of Love,
 though there is a belief that Jupiter also has a connection with
 strawberries.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 92
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Confidence in social situations
 Charm bags are a very efficient way of carrying reminders
 which can add extra zest to life. This one is used to help you
 overcome shyness, perhaps when you are meeting new people
 or doing something you have never done before. It is done during
 the Waxing Moon.
 You will need
 • A SMALL DRAWSTRING BAG ABOUT 1-2 INCHES DEEP 
(you could use a colour such as yellow to enhance communication)
 • GROUND NUTMEG
 • PINE NEEDLES
 • DRIED LAVENDER
 • PIECE OF MANDRAKE ROOT
 Method
 Put a pinch or two of the nutmeg, pine needles, dried lavender and mandrake
 root in the bag and tie it closed.
 Consecrate and charge the bag during the waxing phase of the moon so that
 you can use positive energy.
 Wear the bag around your neck or keep it in your pocket.
 You should feel a surge of energy whenever you are in a social situation
 which you find difficult to handle.
 When you feel you no longer have need of the support your bag gives you,
 you can scatter the herbs to the four winds or burn them.
 It is the consecrating of the bag which turns it into a tool for use in
 everyday situations, so choose your words carefully to express your
 particular need. Try to approach one new person everyday or go
 into one new situation, until you lose your fear.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 93
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To create opportunities for love
 This is not a spell to draw a person to you, but more to ‘open
 the way’- to alert the other person to the possibility of a
 relationship with you. The spell should be performed on a
 Friday. The use of your mother’s ring is symbolic of continuity.
 You will need
 • A WINE GLASS
 • A RING (traditionally your
 mother’s wedding ring would be
 used)
 • RED SILK RIBBON ABOUT 30
 INCHES (80cm) LONG
 Method
 Put a wine glass right way up on a table.
 Make a pendulum by suspending the ring from the red silk ribbon.
 Hold the pendulum steady by resting your elbow on the table, with the ribbon
 between your thumb and forefinger.
 Let the ring hang in the mouth of the wine glass.
 Clearly say your name followed by that of the other person.
 Repeat their name twice i.e. three times in all.
 Then, thinking of them, spell their name out loud.
 Allow the ring to swing and tap against the wine glass once for each letter of
 their name.
 Tie the ribbon around your neck, allowing the ring to hang down over your
 head.
 Wear it for three weeks, and repeat the spell every Friday for three weeks.
 By the end of the third week, the person you have in your sights will show
 an interest, unless it is not meant to be.
 Let’s assume there is someone in whom you are interested, but the
 interest does not seem to be reciprocated. This spell ensures there are
 no hindrances, but there has to be at least some feeling for it to
 stand a chance of working.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 94
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Friendship
 This spell calls on several disciplines, candle, representational
 and incantation. You can do this working at the time of the
 New Moon, since you are attempting to bring about new ways
 of relating to people and also hoping to meet new friends.
 You will need
 • SEVERAL SHEETS OF PAPER
 • PEN
 • JASMINE, LAVENDER OR PATCHOULI ESSENTIAL OIL IN A CARRIER OIL
 SUCH AS ALMOND
 • A WHITE CANDLE
 Method
 Anoint the candle with a few drops of the oil.
 Inscribe it with the Ogham Stave for friendship, Ur:
 Light the candle, then take a ritual cleansing bath.
 Anoint yourself with more of the oil paying particular attention to the 
pulse spots.
 Take one sheet of paper and draw a figure to represent yourself - it does 
not have to be good art.
 Make sure your gender is recognisable.
 Write underneath the figure all those attributes which make you a good
 companion e.g. funny, bubbly, curious etc.
 On the other pieces of paper draw representations of both men and women
 and the interests you would like them to have which are similar to yours.
 Briefly hold between your hands the paper which represents you, together 
with each of the other papers making sure that the drawings face one another.
 Say each time:
 Let us meet each other
 Let us greet each other
 Let us become friends
 Let us become companions
 And if we grow to love one another
 Then so be it.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 95
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Put a drop of oil on one corner of each of the papers.
 Now spread the papers out in front of you and visualise a link from you to
 each of the others, almost like a spider’s web.
 Say:
 Spider Woman, Spider Woman, weave me a charm
 Make me good enough, clever enough them all to disarm.
 Now let the candle burn out.
 You should find that new friends appear before the next New Moon.
 All life can be seen as a network, and each individual is a strand
 within that network. Spider Woman is a North American goddess
 who weaves charms and reveals the power and the purpose of each
 strand. She keeps you aware of the importance of these connections
 in your life.
 To beckon a person
 This is a very simple method of putting out a vibration which, if
 a relationship has a chance of succeeding, will make the other
 person aware of you. It does not force the other person to do
 anything, but simply paves the way.
 Method
 Say the following:
 Know I move to you
 as you move to me.
 As I think of you,
 Think also of me.
 As I call your name,
 Call me to you.
 Come to me in love.
 Say the person’s name three times (if known).
 You may need to recite the whole spell several times in order to feel
 the proper effect. You may also need to remember that a loving
 friend is just as important as a friendly lover.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 96
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To draw a new love to you
 Charm bags, talisman bags or mojos, whatever tradition they
 come from, are all useful in bringing about a certain result.
 Friday is the day of Venus and her specific hours are the
 eighth hour of the day and the third and tenth hour of the night, as
 per the Planetary Hours chart on page 44, so are ideal times to
 perform this spell.
 You will need
 • A SMALL DRAWSTRING BAG
 • 5 ROSE PETALS
 • A COUPLE OF PINCHES OF CATNIP
 • HEATHER
 • VERVAIN
 • 1 INCH PIECE OF JASPER OR ROSE QUARTZ
 Method
 Your bag could be pink for love, or red for passion.
 You might like to have your drawstring a different colour to add other
 qualities.
 During the waxing phase of the Moon at your chosen time, put all the
 ingredients in the bag, then consecrate and charge the bag.
 Wear it around your neck or keep it in your pocket.
 As you get to know your herbs and crystals you will be able to
 adjust the contents to be more and more specific in their results.
 Herbs which are particularly associated with love which may be
 substituted for the above are:
 Absinthe, Adam & Eve Root, Aloes, Apple Blossom, Archangel, Ash
 Leaves, Basil, Beth Root, Bittersweet, Black Snakeroot, Cardamon,
 Civet, Cloves, Coriander, Cubeb, Cumin, Damiana, Deerstongue,
 Dill, Dragon’s Blood Reed, Elecampane, Eryngo (Sea Holly), Gentian,
 Ginger, Grains of Paradise, Heartsease, Hyacinth, Jasmine, Juniper
 Berries, Khus Khus, Laurel, Lavender, Licorice, Lignum Aloes, Lime,
 Linden, Lovage, Magnolia, Maidenhair, Mandrake, Marjoram,
 Mistletoe, Mint, Motherwort, Mullein Leaves, Naroli (Orange
 Blossom), Orange, Orris, Passion Flower, Pennyroyal, Periwinkle,
 Quassia Chips, Rose Buds, Rosemary, Rue, Sage, Skullcap, Senna
 Pods, Southernwood, Spikenard, Violet, Sweet Bugle, Thyme, Vanilla,
 Vervain, Vetivert, Violet, Wormwood, Yerba Mate, Ylang Ylang.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 97
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 For a lover to come to you
 This spell is reputed to work very quickly, so do not be too
 impetuous. It is of course a candle spell. Red candles represent
 passion, so you must take responsibility for whatever happens
 when you call your lover to you.
 You will need
 • TWO SILVER PINS
 • A RED CANDLE
 Method
 Stick two silver pins through the middle of a red candle at midnight.
 Concentrate on your lover.
 Repeat his or her name several times.
 After the candle burns down to the pins, your lover will arrive.
 It is also said that if you give your lover one of the pins he will remain bound
 to you.
 If you wish companionship rather than passion, then use a candle of a colour
 appropriate to the other person’s astrological sign.
 This spell is one used to influence someone else, so be very careful
 how you use it. Pins were often used in magical work in times gone
 by, because they were readily available. One old custom was to ask a
 bride for the pins from her wedding dress, for which you must give
 her a penny.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 98
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To achieve your heart’s desire
 This is quite an effective spell and does give you something to do
 while you are waiting for true love. It makes use of candles
 and of plant magic. Timing is important since it uses the rising
 of the sun, as also is colour (red to represent passion).
 You will need
 • A FRESH ROSE (preferably red and perfumed)
 • TWO RED CANDLES
 Method
 Find out the time of the next sunrise.
 Just before going to sleep, place a red candle on either side of the rose.
 The next morning at sunrise take the rose outside.
 Hold the rose in front of you and say:
 This red rose is for true love.
 True love come to me.
 Now go back inside and put the rose between the candles again.
 Light the candles and visualize love burning in the heart of the one you want.
 Keep the candles burning day and night until the rose fades.
 When the rose is dead, pinch out the candles and then bury the rose.
 There are many spells for love and this one is extremely 
simple, except that it requires some effort to get up early in the
 morning. The concentration that you put into it as you burn your
 candles focuses your mind on the matter in hand.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 99
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To forget about an ex-lover
 This spell is done best at the time of the Waning Moon or New
 Moon. It is not done to get rid of an old partner, but to
 exorcize your bad feelings about them. For this reason it is
 sensible to finish the spell by sending loving thoughts to your former
 partner. Woody nightshade is poisonous and you may not care to use
 it, in which case you can use a bulb of garlic.
 You will need
 • PHOTOGRAPH OF YOUR EX-PARTNER
 • SUITABLE CONTAINER FOR BURNING THE PHOTOGRAPH (one in which the
 ashes can be saved)
 • ROOT OF BITTERSWEET (woody nightshade, which is poisonous)
 • RED CLOTH OR BAG
 Method
 Place the picture of your ex-partner in the container.
 Set it alight.
 Gather up all your hurt and pain as the picture burns down.
 Feel them flowing away from you as you say these words or similar:
 Leave my heart and leave me free
 Leave my life, no pain for me.
 As this picture burns to dust,
 Help me now, move on I must.
 Repeat the words until the picture is burnt out.
 Taking the herb root, hold it first to your solar plexus.
 Allow the bad feelings to flow into the root.
 Touch the root to your forehead, indicating that you have converted the bad
 feelings to good.
 Wrap everything, including the container of ashes, in your red bag or cloth.
 As soon as convenient, bury it as far away from your home as possible.
 If you have had a relationship which is argumentative and turned
 nasty it is often better to end it and move on. This must always be
 your choice but if you wish to try again you may like to try the To
 Stop an Argument spell on page 105.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 100
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To have aperson think about you
 This is another spell that works over time. A relationship that
 grows slowly generally has more chance of success than a
 whirlwind romance and that is what is represented here. Small
 seeds represent the many facets of a relationship. The spell is done as
 the Moon is growing in power.
 You will need
 • PACKET OF SEEDS OF YOUR CHOICE
 • POT OF SOIL (to grow them)
 • A SMALL COPPER OBJECT SUCH AS A PENNY 
(Copper is sacred to Venus, the Goddess of Love)
 Method
 On a night when the Moon is waxing, go outside and hold the penny in the
 moonlight.
 Bury the penny in the soil in the pot.
 Sprinkle the seeds on top to form the initial of the other person’s name.
 As the seeds germinate, love should also grow,
 Remember that just as plants need nurturing so does love, so you will need to
 look after the growing seeds.
 It is said that the plants will grow and flourish if the love 
is meant to be, but will wither and die if there is no real 
energy in the relationship. For those who are
 not very good at plant-care, you
 might choose to put a reminder to
 nurture somewhere promi
nent. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 101
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To have your love returned
 This spell is candle magic and also representational. It is a little
 more complicated than most because it requires an
 understanding of symbolism. It is best done on a Friday. The
 objects you use need not be the real things, but they can be
 miniaturizations such as cake decorations.
 You will need
 • PINK CANDLE
 • BLUE CANDLE
 • GOLD CANDLE (to represent the relationship)
 • HORSESHOE (to reprsent luck in love)
 • KEY (to represent the key to your heart)
 • TWO ROSES
 • AN ARTICLE OF YOUR LOVE INTEREST’S CLOTHING 
(failing that, use something of your own)
 Method
 Light the pink and blue candles (pink first if you are female, blue if male),
 followed by the gold.
 Place the horseshoe and key on either side of the candles, with the roses
 between them.
 When the candles have burnt down, wrap the flowers, the key and the
 horseshoe in the clothing.
 Place the items in a bedroom drawer and leave them alone for fourteen days.
 If after this time the flowers are still fresh, this is a good sign.
 You should then bury them or put them (along
 with the horseshoe and key) in a potpourri.
 You might use this spell when you
 think a relationship with someone
 would be worthwhile. If you cannot
 find an article of the other person’s
 clothing, a handkerchief or some 
other small article will do as well. If
 that is not possible then use a square 
of pink material. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 102
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To heal a rift
 This spell is a Romany one which works on the principle of
 making two things (halves) one. The apple always has been a
 symbol for love, and pins are a symbol of industriousness
 denoting the effort which must be put into the relationship.
 You will need
 • FRESH APPLE
 • CLEAN SHEET OF WHITE PAPER
 • PEN
 • KNIFE
 • 2 PINS, COCKTAIL STICKS OR TWIGS
 Method
 Cut the apple in half.
 Tradition says it is helpful, but not vital, if the seeds remain whole. If they
 don’t, reconciliation may simply be a little bit more difficult to bring about.
 Write the woman’s full name on the paper. Next to it, write the man’s.
 Ensure that the space taken up by the names doesn’t exceed the width of the
 halved apple.
 Cut out the names.
 Place the paper with the names between the two halves of the apple.
 Visualise the marriage or relationship being healed.
 Skewer the apple halves together, inserting the pins or twigs diagonally from
 right to left and then vice versa.
 If you are healing your own relationship, send your love to the person
 concerned and ask to receive their love in return
 If it is for someone else then visualise the couple surrounded by a pink cloud
 or aura in a loving embrace
 Divorce is disliked among the Romanies even today. When action is
 required to heal a seemingly irreparable rift, this spell can begin a
 process of reconciliation. To finish off the spell, Romanies use their
 campfire to bake the apple until it appears whole.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 103
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To strengthen attraction
 If you love someone but feel that they are not reciprocating, try
 this spell. Be aware though, that by using this spell you are
 trying to have a direct effect upon the other person. You are
 using representational magic because the hair stands for the person
 you are hoping to influence.
 You will need
 • A FEW STRANDS OF THE PERSON’S HAIR
 • A ROSE SCENTED INCENSE STICK
 Method
 Light the incense.
 Repeat the name of the one you long for, saying each time:
 [Name] love me now.
 Hold the hair on the burning incense until it frizzles away.
 As the hair burns, think of their indifference dissipating and being replaced 
by passion.
 Leave the incense to burn out.
 Before you perform this you should have tried to work out why the
 other person feels indifferent and consider whether what you are
 proposing is appropriate. If, for instance, the person you want to
 attract has not learnt how to commit to a relationship, it would be
 unfair to try and influence them.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 4 6 6 5 3 7 4 4 7 4 8 4 4 1 E 1 8 B F 9 6 A F 9 8 F 9 7 3 1 A F
 104
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To stop an argument
 This is a spell to stop an argument between you and another or
 to change their feelings of aggravation. You are using colour
 and representational magic here. So that you do not let your
 own feelings intrude, you might take a ritual bath first.
 You will need
 • GLASS PLATE
 (Deep purple if possible, but if not, clear will work just as well)
 • PICTURE OF THE PERSON WITH WHOM YOU HAVE ARGUED
 Method
 The plate is used for two reasons.
 Firstly being glass it reflects back to the person, and secondly through its colour
 it raises the whole question to its highest vibration.
 Place the picture face down on the plate for no more than 15 minutes.
 You do not want to over-influence the recipient, so spend a few moments
 remembering the good times you have had.
 For this reason, if using an ordinary photograph you should also be aware of
 where the negative to the picture is so that you are only using positive energy.
 The person will either call or drop in in no more than 24 hours, so you can
 resolve your difficulties.
 If they do not, repeat the procedure for no more than 15 minutes.
 If after a third time you still haven’t heard from them, try to give them a call
 or visit them because their feelings will have changed.
 You will then know that you have done all you can to be on good terms
 with them.
 It is often difficult to get back onto a normal footing with people
 after an argument, so do be prepared to apologise for any part 
that you have had in the difficulty. Remember that you are only
 dealing with that particular argument, not deeper issues within 
the friendship.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 michelle grieco
 105
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Nether garment spell for fidelity
 This spell uses the combination of nutmeg and intimate
 garments in a form of sympathetic magic, combined with
 herbal magic. It is said to keep a partner faithful. It obviously
 can be done at any time, particularly when you suspect that your
 partner may be open to temptation.
 You will need
 • 2 WHOLE NUTMEGS
 • A PAIR OF YOUR AND YOUR PARTNER’S CLEAN UNDERWEAR
 • WIDE RED RIBBON
 • LARGE WHITE ENVELOPE
 • A PIN OR YOUR BURIN
 Method
 Carefully scratch with your burin or the pin your partner’s initial on one
 nutmeg and your own on the other.
 Tie them together with the ribbon.
 Wrap them in the underwear and then place in the envelope.
 Sleep with the envelope under your pillow if your partner is away or you are
 separated from them.
 Nutmeg was at one time the most expensive spice available 
so one would have to be fairly serious 
about the relationship to be willing 
to lock away such an expensive
 commodity. This spell is probably
 not to be entered into lightly, nor
 designed to keep someone with
 you against their will.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 106
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To win the heart of the 
one you love
 This is a very old folklore spell. Using a bulb is symbolic of love
 growing unseen and unrecognized for a time, finally flowering
 at the right time. You cannot simply leave it alone, but must
 tend it carefully if it is to grow successfully.
 You will need
 • ONION BULB
 • NEW FLOWER POT
 • EARTH OR COMPOST
 • YOUR BURIN
 Method
 Scratch the name of the one
 you love on the base of the
 bulb with your burine.
 Plant it in earth in the pot.
 Place the pot on a windowsill, if
 possible facing the direction in which your
 sweetheart lives.
 Over the bulb, repeat the name of the one you desire morning and night until
 the bulb takes root, begins to shoot and finally blooms.
 Say the following incantation whenever you think of the other person:
 May its roots grow,
 May its leaves grow,
 May its flowers grow,
 And as it does so,
 [Name of person]’s love grow.
 You do need patience for this spell and you may well find that you
 lose the impetus for the relationship before the spell is complete.
 This would suggest the relationship may not be right for you.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 107
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To rid yourself of an unwanted 
admirer
 Occasionally people get into a situation where they are being
 pursued by someone whose attention is a nuisance. Rather
 than reacting in anger, it is often easier to open the way for
 the unwanted suitor to leave. This spell, done on a Waning Moon 
that is, after the Full Moon and before the next New Moon - often
 does the trick
 You will need
 • VERVAIN LEAVES
 • A FIERCE FIRE
 Method
 Light a fire.
 Pick up the vervain and
 as you do so call out the
 name of the offending
 person.
 Fling the leaves on the fire and
 say:
 Withdraw from me now I need you not.
 (There is a requirement to declaim passionately, and to use some force, in any
 spell that is designed to drive someone from you. Therefore, be very sure that
 you do not wish this person to be in your life in any way.)
 Repeat the action three nights in a row.
 Preferably this should be done outside, but the spell can be also be
 performed indoors if you have a suitable fireplace and provided you
 are careful. Strictly, one is supposed to gather the vervain leaves,
 though with urban living this is a bit of a tall order. Make sure you
 have at least a couple of handfuls of the dried herb.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 108
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To find a new lover
 This spell works best if done at the time of the New Moon. You
 use everything new so that you change the vibration and can
 look forward with hope. It is representational and is done at
 the time of the New Moon for the same reason.
 You will need
 • HEART SHAPED ROSE PETAL OR A RED HEART CUT OUT OF PAPER
 • CLEAN SHEET OF WHITE PAPER
 • NEW PEN
 • NEW CANDLE (preferably pink)
 • NEW ENVELOPE
 Method
 On the day of a New Moon, cut a red heart out of paper or card.
 Take a clean sheet of white paper and, with the new pen, write on it:
 As this heart shines in candlelight,
 I draw you to me tonight.
 Bathe and change into nightclothes.
 When ready, light the candle and read the invocation out loud.
 Hold the heart in front of the flame and let the candlelight shine on it.
 Place the heart and spell in a new envelope.
 Seal it with wax from the candle.
 Conceal the envelope and leave it untouched for one cycle of the Moon 
(28 days).
 By the time the Moon is new again, there should be new love in your life.
 So many people need companionship and partnership in order to
 boost their feeling of self-worth that to do a spell like this means, as
 always, that one must be willing to take on everything that a part
nership brings.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 109
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 A lover’s token
 This bottle is quite a nice one to give to your lover as a token of
 your love and to intensify the link between you. The herbs are
 all well known for their association with love, and because of
 the link between the bottles should help you to communicate.
 You will need
 For each token:
 • A GLASS BOTTLE WITH CORK, ANY SIZE WILL DO
 • A HANDFUL OF CRUSHED, DRIED ROSE PETALS (preferably from flowers
 given to you by your lover)
 • DRIED/FRESH ROSEMARY (for love and strength)
 • DRIED/FRESH LAVENDER
 • ROSE OIL OR WATER
 • WAX (pink or red is good for love)
 • PINK RIBBON
 Method
 Crush the rose petals and place in the bottles.
 Put in the rosemary and/or lavender, then add the oil or rose water almost to
 the top, leaving some room for air to circulate.
 Cork the bottle and drip wax over the cork to seal the bottle.
 Lay the ribbon on a flat surface.
 Place the bottles one at either end of the ribbon.
 Gradually move them towards one another along the ribbon to signify you
 coming together with your lover.
 When they meet, tie the ribbon round your partner’s bottle and give it 
to them.
 Place yours on a shelf, dresser or anywhere where it will not be disturbed.
 These bottles are tangible evidence of the link between you and your
 lover. You may use them to remind you of the good times or soothe
 you in the bad. The ribbon signifies the link between you, so when
 you think of it you have immediately connected.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 110
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Herbal charm to attract love
 This is a charm that uses both colour, herbs and knots in its
 fashioning. Love is always of interest, but do remember that
 you need to be clear in your aspirations. Numbers are also
 used, seven being a particularly potent one.
 You will need
 • ACACIA, ROSE, MYRTLE, JASMINE OR 
LAVENDER PETALS, IN ANY COMBINATION 
OR SINGLY
 • A RED HEART CUT FROM PAPER OR FELT
 • COPPER COIN OR RING
 • A CIRCLE OF ROSE OR RED COLOURED 
CLOTH
 • BLUE THREAD OR RIBBON
 Method
 Place the petals, heart and coin or ring on the
 cloth and visualise the type of lover you are
 looking for
 Tie the cloth into a pouch with the blue thread or
 ribbon, using seven knots. 
As you tie the knots you may chant an
 incantation, such as:
 Seven knots I tie above,
 Seven knots for me and love.
 Hang the pouch close to your pillow and 
await results.
 This charm is designed to draw someone
 towards you and does not guarantee that
 you will necessarily fall madly 
in love with the person who comes along 
you have simply made yourself attractive to
 them. If this is so then be prepared to let the
 other person down gently.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 111
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Love charm
 This spell uses the elements combined with herbal magic. It
 comes from a time when every spell-maker would use what
 was easily available to them. The best time for performing this
 spell is around the time of the New Moon.
 You will need
 • LARGE STRIP OF BIRCH BARK (gathered at the time of the New Moon)
 • RED INK
 • PEN WITH NIB
 • GRANULAR ROSE OR JASMINE LOVE INCENSE
 • CONTAINER SUITABLE FOR BURNING GRANULAR INCENSE
 Method
 Write on the birch strip:
 Bring me true love
 Burn the birch bark along with the incense in the container and say:
 Goddess of love, God of desire,
 Bring to me sweet passion’s fire.
 The above uses the element of fire. To use water cast the bark into a stream or
 other flowing water and say:
 Message of love, I set you free
 To capture a love and return to me.
 Birch highlights the recognition of the change in mindset from
 maiden to mother and indicates to the universe that you are ready
 to take on the responsibility of partnership. You should perhaps not
 this charm unless you are prepared to take on that responsibility.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 112
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To obtain love from a 
specific person
 This spell uses fire as its vehicle, not as candle magic but in your
 cauldron. You use an incantation and can also use magical ink
 and parchment if you so wish. The spell is best done at night
time and in using the power of the number three is not just for lust
 but also for love.
 You will need
 • YOUR CAULDRON OR A FIREPROOF CONTAINER
 • A PIECE OF PAPER
 • PEN AND RED INK
 • FRAGRANT WOOD OR HERBS TO BURN (you could use apple, birch and cedar)
 Method
 Light a small fire in your cauldron or container.
 Cut out a piece of paper that is 3x3 inches.
 With the pen and red ink draw a heart on the paper and colour it in.
 Write the name of the person that you desire on the heart three times.
 If you wish do this from the edge to the middle in a spiral, to signify how
 deep your love goes.
 While doing this be thinking of his or her heart burning with desire for you
 just like the flames of the fire.
 Kiss the names on the heart 3 times.
 Place the paper in the fire while saying these words 3 times:
 Soon my love will come to me
 This I know that it must be
 Fire come from this wood
 Bring love and caring that it would
 Make our hearts glow and shine,
 bringing love that shall be mine!
 Sit quietly as the paper burns, visualizing your lover coming towards you.
 After you are finished concentrating for a few minutes, extinguish the fire.
 Say quietly three times:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 113
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 So, let it be
 Do not get impatient if nothing happens for a while. Simply have
 confidence that you will be given an opportunity to have a relation
ship with this particular person. How you handle the relationship
 thereafter is entirely up to you.
 To bring someone into your life
 This spell can be used to attract love or to draw a companion
 closer. It should be started on the night of a New Moon. It is
 representational in that the cruet set suggests a pairing, and
 also uses colour.
 You will need
 • SALT SHAKER
 • PEPPER SHAKER 
(or two objects which obviously make a pair)
 • 1 LENGTH OF PINK RIBBON ABOUT ONE METRE LONG
 Method
 Assign one article as the feminine person and one as masculine.
 Take the piece of pink ribbon, and tie the female object to one end and the
 male to the other, leaving a good length of ribbon between them.
 Every morning untie the ribbon, move the objects a little closer together,
 and retie the knots.
 Eventually the objects will touch.
 Leave them bound together for seven days before untying them.
 By this time, love should have entered your life.
 There are several spells which make use of the idea that two people
 must travel along a set path. This one is used to signify the path of
 love. It also suggests in the tying and untying of the ribbon , the
 freedoms there are in the relationship.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 114
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To rekindle your lover’ s interest
 This technique is worth trying when your lover is not paying
 you enough attention. You are using the laurel leaves to back
 up the energy that you are putting into making the
 relationship work. This spell uses herbal and elemental magic.
 You will need
 • A LARGE QUANTITY OF LAUREL LEAVES
 • A FIRE
 Method
 Sit in front of the embers of
 a fire and gaze into them,
 concentrating on your lover.
 Keep your gaze fixed into 
the fire.
 With your left hand, throw
 some laurel leaves onto the
 embers.
 As they burn say:
 Laurel leaves burn into
 the fire.
 Bring to me my heart’s
 desire.
 Wait until the flames die down, then do the same again.
 Repeat the actions once more.
 It is said that within 24 hours your lover will come back to you.
 Again this is a spell which must allow the person who you are tar
geting choices. To keep your partner by your side if they are unhap
py would not be right. This spell does allow you to give careful con
sideration as to what fidelity and security you require within a rela
tionship. This spell is similar to To Rid Yourself of an Unwanted
 Admirer on page 108 and demonstrates how different herbs used in
 similar ways can bring about different results.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 115
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Resolving a love triangle
 Sometimes it is possible to get caught up in a situation where
 three people are in a love triangle. It would be wrong to
 influence anyone one way or another, so here is a way of
 resolving the situation that should not harm anyone. It is best done
 at the time of the Full Moon.
 You will need
 • THREE LENGTHS OF STRING EACH ABOUT A METRE LONG
 • AN OPEN SPACE WHERE YOU WILL NOT BE DISTURBED
 Method
 Form a triangle on the ground with the three pieces of string so that the ends
 are just touching.
 Step into the middle of the triangle.
 Appeal to the Triple Goddess in her guise of Maid, Mother and Crone.
 Use words such as these:
 Triple Goddess hear my plea
 I ask you now to set us free
 It’s not a problem I can alter
 So help me now lest I falter.
 These words put you in touch with your
 own inner self which means that you make
 the decision which is right for you.
 Wait for a few moments to allow the energy to
 build up then raise your arms in a ‘V’ shape (the
 Goddess position) and say:
 So let it be.
 Allow yourself time to consider the problem from all perspectives before
 making a decision as to how you should act.
 Each time you consider the position, remember to repeat the first two lines of
 the verse above.
 It usually takes a little time for a situation like this to reach some
 kind of resolution, but this spell allows you to feel supported and
 cared for. Gradually it will become apparent as to the action you
 must take and you can accept that it is the ultimately the best out
come for everyone.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 116
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 To ease a broken heart
 This spell contains many of the types of magic normally used in
 spells. There is candle, herbal and plant magic as well as
 representational. It is designed to make you feel better rather
 than have an effect on anyone else.
 You will need
 • ONE STRAWBERRY TEA BAG
 • SMALL WAND OR STICK FROM A WILLOW TREE
 • SEA SALT
 • 2 PINK CANDLES
 • MIRROR
 • PINK DRAWSTRING BAG
 • QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 • COPPER PENNY
 • BOWL MADE OF CHINA OR CRYSTAL THAT IS SPECIAL TO YOU
 • 1 TEASPOON DRIED JASMINE
 • 1 TEASPOON ORRIS-ROOT POWDER
 • 1 TEASPOON STRAWBERRY LEAVES
 • 1 TEASPOON YARROW
 • 10 DROPS (at least)APPLE-BLOSSOM OIL OR PEACH OIL
 • 10 DROPS (at least) STRAWBERRY OIL
 Method
 Charge all the ingredients before you begin
 On a Friday morning or evening (the day sacred to the Goddess Venus) take
 a bath in sea salt in the light of a pink candle.
 As you dry off and dress, sip the strawberry tea.
 Use a dab of strawberry oil as perfume or cologne.
 Apply makeup or groom yourself to look your best.
 Cast a circle with the willow wand around a table on which the other
 ingredients have been placed.
 Light the second pink candle.
 Mix all oils and herbs in the bowl.
 While you stir, look at yourself in the mirror and say:
 Oh, Great Mother Earth,
 Nurture and protect me now.
 Let me use the strengths I know I have.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 117
LOVE AND RELATIONSHIPS
 Look into the mirror after you have finished mixing the ingredients and say:
 Mother of all things,
 All that is great is mine,
 Help me now to be the person I can be
 and let me overcome my difficulty.
 Put half the mixture in the pink bag and add the penny and crystal.
 Carry the bag with you until you feel you no longer need it.
 Leave the other half of the potion in the bowl in a room where you will smell
 the fragrance. Repeat this ritual every Friday, if you so wish.
 Unfortunately, the break up of a relationship can truly knock our
 confidence. This spell is designed to restore yours as quickly as possi
ble. It does not matter who is right or wrong, simply that you are
 able to go forward with dignity.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 118
Money, finance, wealth and luck
 It might be easier to think of this section under 
the title of Resources. Most of us need - or at least imagine that
 we need - more money or the wherewithal to do more 
with our lives and the spells in this section are designed to 
help you do just that. Mainly they will help you to move 
away from the so-called ‘poverty mentality’ and perhaps help
 you to realise that you deserve to be rewarded for living
 according to your principles. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 119
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Attracting extra money
 This is a representational spell since the money in your pocket is
 representative of a greater fortune. Use this only at the time of
 a New Moon and make sure you are in the open air. It is said
 that the spell is negated if the Moon is seen through glass.
 You will need
 • LOOSE CHANGE
 Method
 Gaze at the Moon.
 Turn your money over in your pocket.
 As you do so, repeat the following three times:
 Goddess of Light and Love, I pray
 Bring fortune unto me this day.
 You will know that it has worked when you find extra money in your
 pocket or your purse or come across money unexpectedly.
 In previous times the Moon was recognized as much as the Sun as
 being the bringer of good luck. This spell acknowledges that and
 allows you to make use of her power. It is said to ensure that you
 have at least enough for bed and board until the next New Moon.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 120
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Eliminating personal poverty
 Amodern-day adaptation of an ancient formula, this spell
 ensures that you always have the necessities of life, such as
 somewhere to stay and enough to eat. Because it becomes
 part of your everyday environment, you simply need to refresh the
 ingredients when you feel the time right.
 You will need
 • SMALL GLASS CONTAINER CONTAINING EQUAL QUANTITIES OF:
 • salt
 • sugar
 • rice
 • SAFETY PIN
 Method
 Fill the container with a mixture of the salt, sugar and rice.
 Place the open safety pin in the centre of the mixture.
 Put the container in the open air where you can easily see it.
 Occasionally give the bowl a shake to reinvigorate 
the energies.
 Though this spell has no particular timeframe, the
 more confident you become in your own abilities
 the quicker it will work. Rather than using salt,
 sugar and rice you can use a pot-pourri of
 your choice. Shaking the container also
 keeps the energies fresh and you must use
 your intuition as to when they need
 changing.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 121
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Fast luck oil
 This oil contains herbal essences, all of which have the effect of
 quickening up a spell. However, there is need for a word of
 warning, since many people nowadays have sensitivities to so
 many substances. Wintergreen if ingested internally is highly toxic so
 you should be careful when dealing with it and cinnamon oil can
 irritate the skin. When used to dress a candle however the combined
 oils are a speedy way of making things happen.
 You will need
 • A SMALL BOTTLE
 • 10 DROPS WINTERGREEN OIL
 • 10 DROPS VANILLA OIL
 • 10 DROPS CINNAMON OIL
 • CARRIER SUCH AS ALMOND OIL
 If you wish you can suspend a small piece of alkanet root (Bloodroot) in the bottle for a
 deep red colour and extra power
 You can also, for money spells, add gold or silver glitter
 Method
 Carefully combine the essential and carrier oils in the bottle.
 Shake well and repeat as you do so at least three times.
 Fast Luck, Fast Luck
 Bring to me my desire.
 Now add the other ingredients if you are using them and leave the bottle in a
 cool dark place for at least twenty four hours for the oils to blend.
 After this time you can use the oil to dress your candles.
 Remember that, as you are drawing luck towards you, you should dress the
 candle from the top down.
 If you are using Fast Luck Oil for a money spell concentrate on money
 coming towards you, use a green candle and repeat the words above.
 Use a brown candle if you have a business deal you need to accelerate, but this
 time it is wise to add a few flakes of silver or gold glitter.
 To bring love into your life use a pink candle, visualize your ideal person
 coming into your life and repeat the words above, adding:
 If it be right for all concerned.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 122
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Let the candles burn out safely.
 You should have some indication that this routine is working within
 about thirty six hours. If there is none, then you must consider
 what obstacles there are to progress. These may have come to light
 since you began the spell and you can attempt to remove them
 before carrying out the procedure again. 
Footwash for money
 This is a folklore recipe and would strictly only become a spell 
if an incantation or invocation were added. Black Cohosh is
 better known as a herb to be used at the time of the
 menopause, but here is used as a footwash which will lead you 
to money.
 You will need
 • BLACK COHOSH ROOT
 • CUP OF BOILING WATER
 • SMALL BOTTLE
 Method
 Soak the root in the cup of
 boiling water for fifteen
 minutes.
 Strain the water and throw
 away the root.
 Put the liquid in the bottle for
 seven days and leave it alone.
 On the eighth day, rub the liquid all over the bottom of your shoes.
 Be alert to your own intuition until money comes your way.
 It is said that you will either find money, win it, or gain it in some
 legal manner. This, by its method, cannot really be used to gain a
 specific amount, but you can bear in mind what your needs are.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 123
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Gambling spell
 This spell activates a good luck charm which can be used
 whenever you gamble. The acorn is a symbol of fertility and
 good luck and takes on the quality of its parent tree, the oak,
 which is considered to signify strength and power.
 You will need
 • ACORN
 • GOLD PAINT
 • NARROW PAINTBRUSH
 Method
 Sit quietly for a few moments,
 holding the acorn in the hand you
 consider to be your most powerful
 and visualize yourself receiving your winnings.
 Now carefully paint the acorn with the gold paint.
 Make sure that you completely cover it.
 Repeat the following at least three times while doing this:
 When chance’s dice I choose to throw
 Little seed of acorn grow
 As I gild thee here and now
 Bring me gold and silver
 When the paint has dried keep the acorn in your pocket or wallet.
 Remember that you have used a living plant and should therefore return 
an offering to the earth in some way - perhaps plant another acorn in a 
wild place.
 Do not expect to win large amounts of money using this spell. 
It is much more likely to be a steady trickle, through whatever way
 you choose to gamble. Occasionally for best results you should 
share some of your winnings with others, so that your good luck is
 passed on.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 124
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Money bottle
 Spell bottles were originally created to destroy the power of an
 evil magician or witch thought to have cast a spell against the
 bottle’s creator. The bottles consist of a container, usually glass,
 filled with various objects of magical potency. All are concentrations
 of energy, created and empowered for specific magical purposes.
 You will need
 • TALL, THIN GLASS BOTTLE
 • 5 CLOVES
 • 5 CINNAMON STICKS
 • 5 KERNELS OF DRIED CORN
 • 5 KERNELS OF DRIED WHEAT (OR 5 TEASPOONS WHEAT FLOUR)
 • 5 PENNIES
 • 5 10P PIECES
 • 5 20P PIECES
 • 5 SESAME SEEDS
 • 5 PECANS
 • 5 WHOLE ALLSPICE
 Method
 Put the ingredients into the bottle, making sure the top is secured tightly.
 Shake the bottle for five minutes while chanting words such as:
 Money gain, silver and herbs
 Copper and grain hear my words.
 Place the money bottle on a table somewhere in your house.
 Leave your purse or wallet near the bottle when at home so that the power 
is transferred.
 You should find that money will come to you, perhaps in unexpected ways.
 The number five is used to effect change. In financial matters it suggests
 movement into another phase of material gain
 You can if you wish bury this bottle close to your home rather than
 actually keeping it indoors. If you do this however it is a good idea 
to acknowledge it in some way every time you pass it. You can 
do this by leaving a small gift such as a pretty pebble or some wild
flower seeds.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 125
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Money charm
 This is more properly a charm rather than a spell because 
you have formed a different object (the bag) and given it
 power through incantation. As always, a money charm like 
this relies on the energy set up between you and the money. If you
 recognise that money is a resource, you can adjust the spell to ask 
for resources rather than money itself.
 You will need
 • A SQUARE OF GREEN CLOTH
 • ALLSPICE, BORAGE, LAVENDER AND SAFFRON
 • CRYSTALS (such as garnet, ruby and emerald or rock salt)
 • THREE SILVER COINS
 • GOLD AND SILVER-COLOURED THREAD
 Method
 Hold the three silver coins in your hands.
 Breathe on them four times and say:
 To the spirits of Air I say
 bring some money my way.
 Put the herbs, crystals and coins on the cloth.
 Tie the cloth into a bag using eight knots in the thread.
 (It is probably easiest to fold the thread into two and tie knots round the neck
 of the bag.)
 Hide the bag in a safe, cool, dark place, away from prying eyes for eight days.
 After eight days money should be coming in.
 Be as realistic as possible, imagining what you will do with the
 money and how best it will be used. Once you have made the bag,
 meditate daily on what you want. By using the three silver coins
 and four breaths you create the vibration of the number seven
 which is considered to be both a lucky, and spiritual, number.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 126
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Money doubling spell
 This spell is representational and helps double any
 denomination of  paper money that you have. You are 
asking that the money be increased so you may also use 
a herb which has this effect. You are also appealing to the highest
 authority in asking the Angels to help you.
 You will need
 • PAPER MONEY (preferably new and as much as you can spare)
 • WHITE ENVELOPE
 • CINNAMON POWDER
 • WAX TO SEAL THE ENVELOPE
 Method
 Place the money in the envelope, along with the cinnamon powder, and seal it
 with the wax.
 Fold the envelope, leave it in your sacred space and say once, every day, for
 seven days:
 Hear me, angels in your glory,
 Hear me now Zacharael.
 I see the need for the common good
 And ask for this to be increased.
 Hold the envelope up, and perceive that it feels heavier than it was.
 Keep the envelope in your bedroom for safety.
 After you receive more money, open the envelope, and share what was in the
 envelope with others.
 Zacharael means ‘remembrance of God’ and is the angel who
 reminds us not to be bound by material concerns. For this reason,
 when we have truly shown that we understand both the value and
 the illusions associated with money we should never go short.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 127
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Money Spell
 This is a spell to help you come to terms with money and your
 attitude to it and should be performed around the time of 
the Full Moon. Most of us at some time or another have
 financial problems. We may not have enough, we may not manage it
 very well, there may be demands on us that we can’t or don’t feel we 
can meet.
 There are two versions of this spell and you should choose the one
 you are most comfortable with. If you are really hard up you will
 find it simpler to use play money, however if you are very brave you
 may choose real money. Choose the largest denomination of money 
either pretend or otherwise – that you are comfortable with.
 You will need
 • GREEN TAPER CANDLE
 • MINT OR HONEYSUCKLE OIL
 • PLAY MONEY OF VARIOUS DENOMINATIONS OR A SINGLE NOTE OF THE
 LARGEST DENOMINATION OF REAL MONEY YOU CAN AFFORD
 Method
 Two days before the Full Moon, take the green candle to your sacred space.
 Carve several pound signs on the candle, thinking of a more prosperous life as
 you do so.
 Anoint the candle with the essential oil.
 Place it in the holder and set it in the middle of your sacred space.
 Light the candle.
 IF USING PLAY MONEY:
 Spread out your ‘money’ in front of the burning candle.
 Handle it, sort it, play with it.
 Spend at least 5 to 10 minutes thinking about your attitude to money, how
 you would use it if it were real.
 Then extinguish the candle.
 The next night, light the candle again.
 Play with the money again, thinking about how you might make it grow.
 After 10 to 15 minutes, extinguish the candle.
 The third night, the night of the Full Moon, do the same again; think about
 how you would help others.
 Before the candle burns out completely burn a large denomination note of
 your play money after you have finished sorting it.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 128
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 This is your offering to the Gods but it also represents your acknowledgement
 that money is simply an energy to be used.
 IF USING REAL MONEY:
 The ritual is the same except that during your meditation on the first day you
 should think about how you wish to spend the money you are going to
 accrue.
 During the second ritual visualize it growing and becoming more. See yourself
 going to the bank to put money into your account or some such action.
 On the third night you have a choice.
 You can either burn the money, place it somewhere safe, perhaps on your altar
 as a reminder of your good fortune, or give it to charity. It is important that
 you do not use it for your own purposes.
 This spell does require a certain amount of courage, but having the
 confidence to take a risk and burn money- play or real - really can
 open up your mind to the opportunities for prosperity. .
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 129
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Petitioning the archangels
 In this spell we use the higher aspects of the Guardians of the
 directions and petition the four archangels according to their
 qualities – Michael for love, Gabriel for strength, Raphael for
 healing and Uriel for clarity. Uriel means ‘light of God’ and is
 represented by the candles. When you perceive a lack of something 
in your life, petitioning the archangels helps to fulfil it.
 You will need
 • THREE WHITE CANDLES
 • PLATE ON WHICH YOU HAVE SCATTERED SUGAR
 Method
 Stand the candles on the plate with the sugar all around the candles.
 Light the candles.
 Put the plate and candles in the highest place you can reach safely at home.
 This signifies the status we give the archangels
 Ask for three wishes from your guardian angels St Raphael, St Michael and
 St Gabriel.
 You might ask one wish for business, one wish for love and one wish which
 seems unlikely to happen.
 If you like, address each of the archangels by name, or use the following: 
Before me Raphael
 Behind me Gabriel
 On my right hand Michael
 On my left hand Uriel
 God be thanked.
 Let the candles burn right out.
 Share this spell with others on the third day (after you requested the
 wishes) and help to pass on the benefit of your gain. You should use
 this spell wisely and not make ridiculous requests with it. If what
 you wish does not happen, accept that it is not right for you to
 make that wish, and do not repeat the request.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 130
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Removing misfortune
 This spell uses plant magic combined with folk magic and the
 meaning of numbers. Burying an object binds the energy 
of what it represents and reciting prayers raises the vibration
 to the point where any negativity is nullified. The instruction
 ‘Within sight of a church’ suggests that the bad luck then is overseen
 by the Angels.
 You will need
 • THREE SMALL JARS (small jars such as honey or baby food jars work well)
 • NINE CLOVES OF GARLIC
 • NINE THORNS FROM A WHITE ROSE OR NINE PINS
 Method
 Pierce the cloves with the pins or thorns saying forcefully while doing so:
 Misfortune begone from me.
 Put three of the cloves and pins in each jar.
 Bury each jar within sight of a church.
 Say the Lord’s prayer each time you do this.
 Walk away and don’t look back at what you have done
 This spell can give impressively fast results. As soon as you become
 aware of the misfortune you are suffering, look for a common
 theme – i.e. are the problems financial, love etc – and actually name
 them in the words you use. Because you have addressed it three
 times it cannot remain.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 131
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Silver spell
 This spell relies on the use of candles and takes about a week 
to perform. Before you begin, believe you have prosperity 
and that you have no money worries. Consider your attitude
 to money. You will probably find that the spell is best begun on a
 Friday.
 You will need
 • A SMALL BOWL
 • SEVEN SILVER COINS
 • A GREEN CANDLE AND HOLDER
 Method
 Place the bowl, the candle and its holder on a flat surface in your home, 
where it will be passed every day.
 For the next seven days put a coin in the bowl.
 After seven days, take the candle in your hands and imagine prosperity 
coming to you.
 Sense the opportunities that you will have with money.
 Be aware of the energy that has been given to money.
 Place the candle in the holder.
 Pour the seven coins into your left hand.
 Draw a circle with your hand around the coins.
 Put the first coin right in front of the candle.
 As you place it, say these or similar words:
 Money grow, make it mine
 Money flow, Money’s mine.
 Place the other coins around the candle one by one and repeat the incantation.
 Finally light the candle and allow it to burn out.
 Leave the money in position for at least three days.
 It is better you do not spend this money if at all possible.
 This spell is another one which is designed for long term security. Just
 as you built the energy very slowly, so the gains will build slowly
 too. A variation of this spell is to take a scallop shell which repre
sents the Great Mother and place the coins in that, leaving them as
 an offering.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 132
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 To banish your debts
 This particular spell uses candle and incense magic and, if you
 wish, the art of magical writing. You could choose incense or
 oil for purification or protection, whichever seems right for
 you. It is suggested that you perform this at the time of the Waning
 Moon as this can be used to help take away the difficulty.
 You will need
 • ROLLED PARCHMENT OR PAPER, 2 INCHES WIDE AND AS LONG AS YOU
 LIKE
 • BLACK PEN OR PEN WITH MAGICAL BLACK INK
 • A PIN OR YOUR BURIN
 • PURPLE CANDLE
 • UNBREAKABLE CANDLE HOLDER
 • OIL OF YOUR CHOICE
 • INCENSE OF YOUR CHOICE
 Method
 Light the incense and dress the candle with the oil.
 List all your debts on the parchment.
 Draw a banishing pentagram on the back of the parchment.
 This is drawn lower left point to top to lower right to top left to top right
 and back to lower left.
 Carve another banishing pentagram with the pin or burin on the candle.
 Place the rolled parchment in the candle holder then tighten the candle on top.
 Do this carefully since your candle will eventually set the paper alight.
 Concentrate on banishing your debts.
 Visualize your happiness and relief when the debts are banished.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 133
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Light the candle.
 Take the candle to the East and ask that the Spirit of Air acknowledges your
 intention to be debt free.
 Replace the candle in the holder, making sure it is safe to burn out where it
 stands.
 In your own words, ask for the debts to be banished and replaced with
 prosperity.
 Allow the candle to burn out completely, but as it comes to the end make sure
 that you are present.
 The paper will catch fire and flare up, so it must be properly attended to.
 As you do this, be aware of the lifting of the burden of debt.
 You should not expect your debts to simply disappear, but the
 wherewithal to clear them should come your way quite quickly. This
 might be, for instance, in the form of an unexpected gift or the
 opportunity for some extra work. Once your debts are cleared you
 are honour-bound not to create the same problems again.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 134
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 To attract a wealthy male partner
 This spell uses symbolism, herbalism, candles and colour to
 achieve a purpose. The dragon is a symbol of wealth, wisdom,
 power and nobility, while ginseng is said to enhance virility.
 The supposition is that by putting all of them together you create
 the right vibration for attraction. If performing this the first time,
 then do it at the time of the New Moon.
 You will need
 • A REPRESENTATION OF A DRAGON (a picture, statue etc)
 • A PIECE OF GINSENG ROOT OR POWDERED GINSENG
 • A RED CANDLE
 Method
 Light your candle.
 Pick up the ginseng root and say:
 By the power of this Man root
 I pray for one to come to me
 Strong and brave, wise and astute
 Funny and loving to look after me.
 Then pick up the dragon symbol and say:
 Power of the dragon, strong and true
 Hear me now as I call to you
 Bring me a man that I can love
 And one that I can be proud of.
 Place the two objects in front of the candle and allow it to burn out.
 When it is done place the representation of the dragon on a high shelf to
 represent status.
 Either keep the ginseng root beside your bed or use the powder as an incense
 additive until it is used up.
 By that time your new man should have arrived.
 You can use your own form of words to bring the kind of man you
 want. Be careful though as you may get more than you bargained for.
 To attract a woman would require more feminine symbols such as a
 fish or a ladybird, and angelica root instead of ginseng. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 135
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Winning brass
 If you are a gambler and use dice you may like to try this spell. It
 uses planetary correspondences and number symbolism. Properly
 charged, your dice should create the ability to have Lady Luck 
one of the manifestations of the Goddess – on your side.
 You will need
 • BRASS DIE (Brass is sacred to Venus)
 • WOOD DIE (perhaps sycamore, which is also sacred to Venus, or of another sacred
 wood – see pages 141-143)
 • IF YOU CANNOT FIND A WOOD DIE, AN ACRYLIC ONE WILL SUFFICE
 • MONEY INCENSE
 • GREEN CANDLE
 Method
 You will need to make a dedication of your die before you start.
 Use fairly flowery language in order to get the energy flowing.
 Say something like:
 Oh Lady of the Morning Star
 Come to me here from afar
 This cube of chance
 Its powers enhance
 That it becomes my lodestar.
 Now it will depend on its material as to how you wish it to work for you.
 Brass is a material that traditionally heightens the intuitive powers so you could
 use words such as:
 So show me now your bounty.
 Sycamore which signifies love, receptivity and the ability to communicate, or
 one of the sacred trees such as holly, a symbol of luck, could be dedicated with
 the words:
 Bring your knowledge to me.
 Your acrylic die, far from being inert, can be made magically powerful by intent
 Use words such as:
 Awaken to the power of gain.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 136
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Light the incense and candle.
 Pass each die through the incense smoke and through the candle flame
 visualizing yourself winning with your lucky dice.
 When you win always put by a tenth of your winnings for good causes.
 When playing games of chance it is thought that fingering the brass
 die will give the information needed to win. Using the others as
 your playing piece should ensure some good winnings. If you do not
 share your good fortune it will, however, not continue.
 Want spell
 Since Mother Nature supplies our most basic needs, this spell uses
 the cycle of her existence to help fulfil your wants. The leaf is
 representative of her power and you are using natural objects to
 signify that all things must come to pass.
 You will need
 • A MARKER PEN
 • A FULLY GROWN LEAF
 Method
 Write or draw on the leaf a word, picture or letter that represents the thing
 that you want.
 Lay the leaf on the ground.
 As the leaf withers, it takes your desire to the Earth.
 In thanks, Mother Nature will grant your wish.
 You may also throw the leaf into running water or place it under a stone if
 you wish.
 This is a spell which owes a great deal to folk magic and an apprecia
tion of the cycle of growth and decay. In such spells, it is usual to
 use a leaf that has fallen rather than pick one from a tree. 
If you do the latter you should thank the tree for its bounty.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 137
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 String spell
 This spell is another representational one and is very simple to
 do. It pays homage to the art of knotting and makes use of
 your sacred space if you are able to leave your altar in place.
 Otherwise simply use a windowsill in broad sunlight or moonlight.
 You will need
 • A LENGTH OF STRING LONG ENOUGH TO OUTLINE YOUR MATERIAL 
DESIRE
 Method
 Sit quietly with the piece of string and pour your wish into it.
 Try to have a clear picture in your mind of what you want.
 Tie a knot in one end of the string and say:
 With this knot the gods I implore
 Bring this [your desire] my way, for sure.
 Tie a knot in the other end and say:
 With this knot I lock it in
 With thanks for the gift that it will bring.
 Lay the string on a flat surface and fashion it into as close a picture of your
 material desire as you can.
 Leave it in place for at least three days.
 When your wish has manifested don’t forget to thank the gods either by
 giving something to charity or offering your skills to the community in which
 you live.
 This spell seems to work best if you actually need the object you 
are representing. The gods do not grant their favours without 
some effort on your part so use your gift wisely and well. Your rela
tionship with the gods is always a two-way street.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 138
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 Candles and pennies
 Fire and finance always seem to have a natural affinity, so a
 candle spell which incorporates pennies is a good way of
 drawing money energy towards you. You do need to keep your
 demands within bounds, so do not ask for more than you need.
 Colour is an important component and green is traditionally used in
 money spells. You could try this on a Friday.
 You will need
 • GREEN CANDLE
 • GLASS TUMBLER
 • ENOUGH SMALL COINS TO HALF FILL THE GLASS
 • YOUR BURIN
 Method
 Half fill the glass with the coins.
 Inscribe the candle with the good fortune and completion rune, Fehu:
 Put the candle in the glass.
 Light the candle and let it burn down to nothing so the wax is intermingled
 with the pennies.
 As you light the candle state that you only want what is needed, not more.
 Place the glass in the safe space to burn out.
 There is a slight risk that as the glass gets hot it may shatter, though the
 pennies should absorb most of the heat.
 This is representative of the idea that money will ‘stick’ to you.
 Hopefully, having done the spell once you will not need to do it
 again. A variation on this to manifest actual objects that are needed
 is to inscribe the candle with a picture of what you require or to
 write the actual words on the candle. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 139
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 A wish afloat
 This spell uses plant or rather tree magic and running water to
 convey the energy. It also uses the art of visualization and can
 be very effective in manifestation spells, particularly if you get
 to know your tree correspondences. Ideally it should be done at the
 time of the New Moon.
 You will need
 • TWIG OR SMALL BRANCH OF
 YOUR CHOICE
 • BRIDGE ACROSS A STREAM
 OR RIVER OR A HIGH ROCK
 WHERE YOU CAN SEE THE
 TIDE OF THE SEA
 Method
 In order not to disturb the nature spirits, strictly you should use a twig that
 has already fallen off the tree.
 Remember that Mother Nature appreciates a gift as much as you do, so where
 possible be prepared to share with the spirit of the tree.
 Shape the twig as much as you need to according to the wish you intend to make.
 When you feel the time is right stand on the bridge or rock and link with the
 spirit of water.
 Say why you have come, using words such as:
 Tonight I come to you with a small request
 Carry for me now my desire out into the open sea
 That I may [state request].
 Concentrate on what you want to wish for and see it in your mind‘s eye.
 Repeat the words above aloud.
 Now throw the twig as far upstream or into the tide as you can.
 As the twig floats past you repeat the request again and ask for a blessing from
 the appropriate tree spirit.
 This way of working combines the spirit of the tree with the spirit of
 water and means that you have some pretty powerful energy 
available to you. Opposite is a list of the qualities of some of the
 more magical trees.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 140
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 APPLE indicates choice, and is useful for love and healing magic. When
 choices are offered, the biggest test is to choose only one and not to waste
 energy in making your decision. You might use apple cider in any spells
 calling for wine.
 ASH Since ancient times, some have believed that the first man was created
 from the branches, the Ash tree. Wands were often made of ash because they
 are good for healing and general and solar magic because of the wood’s
 straight grain. It is said that you should put fresh ash leaves under your pillow
 to stimulate dreams. 
BIRCH Known as Lady of the Woods, Paper Birch and White Birch, the
 birch tree is symbolic of fertility and new birth, and is closely associated with
 the waxing phase of the Moon. Emotionally, the birch is aabout being
 nurtured and cared for; spiritually we are cleansed and made ready for the
 future.
 BLACKTHORN indicates outside influences that must be obeyed and may
 well appear when a negative challenge is presented. This tree teaches its lessons
 well and will help to create a psychic barrier to protect you against similar
 situations arising in the future. The white flowers are seen even before the
 leaves in the spring. The wood is often used for a protective staff. 
CEDAR also known as the Tree of Life, Arbor Vitae and Yellow Cedar,
 this tree grows to a great height and has a very imposing spread. The wood is
 reddish-white, fragrant, and close-grained, particularly in older trees. The oil
 that it produces is highly preservative and the tree’s longevity is part of its
 sacredness.
 ELDER also known as Ellhorn, Elderberry and Lady Elder. Elder wands
 can be used to drive out evil spirits or thought forms. Music played on
 panpipes or flutes of elder has the same power as the wand. In olden days as a
 protection against evil its branches were hung in the doorways of houses and
 cowsheds. Sacred to the White Lady and Midsummer Solstice, it is said that
 standing under an elder tree at Midsummer will help you see the fairies. 
ELM wood is valued for its resistance to splitting. It is often associated with
 Mother and Earth Goddesses, and was said to be the abode of fairies. Elm
 adds stability and grounding to a spell. Once known as ‘Elven’, its nature
 spirit is the elf.
 FIR Symbolically, fir indicates high perspectives with a clear vision of what is
 beyond and yet to come. Known as the Birth Tree, the silver fir needles can
 be burned at childbirth to bless and protect the mother and baby, and to clear
 the environment. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 141
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 HAWTHORN also known as May Tree, White Thorn, Haegthorn and
 Quickthorn, this is one of the most wild, enchanted and sacred of trees. It can
 live to a great age, becoming gnarled in the process. Hawthorn is traditionally
 used to make psychic shields for the innocent and vulnerable, particularly
 children. It is associated with the sacred as well as with inauspicious events.
 Wands made of this wood are of great power. Hawthorn can be used for
 protection, love and marriage spells. 
HAZEL The hazel tree has long been magical and is used to gain knowledge,
 wisdom and poetic inspiration and enhance the art of communication. Wands
 made of this wood symbolize white magic and healing, whilst forked sticks are
 traditionally used to find water or buried treasure. 
If in need of magical protection, string hazelnuts on a cord and hang them up
 in your home or sacred space and carry them with you when out and about.
 When working with nature, a circle drawn around you with a hazel twig
 will enhance the energy. 
HOLLY may be used in spells to do with sleep or rest and to ease transition.
 This symbolism is evident in both Pagan and Christian lore and holly is
 important at Yuletide. In Celtic mythology holly is the evergreen twin of the
 oak. It is called a kerm-oak. The oak rules the light part of the year while
 holly rules the dark part.
 Holly suggests directed balance and the courage to fight if the cause is just.
 A symbol of luck and good fortune, a bag of leaves and berries carried by a
 man is said to increase his ability to attract women.
 IVY is evergreen and represents the ever-present aspects of the human psyche.
 It is associated primarily with fidelity and is a symbol of married love and
 loyalty and stable relationships. Houses with ivy growing on them are
 reputedly safe from psychic attack. Ivy represents all that is mysterious and
 mystical.
 JUNIPER is used in numerous incenses. Also used for protection and
 purification, juniper can be grown by the door where it discourages thieves. 
A small bunch of twigs or a few berries in a pouch can also be hung in the
 rafters of a building or over the lintel of the doorway as a longer-term
 protection against accidents, and also to attract love. 
MISTLETOE also known as Birdlime, All Heal and Golden Bough,
 mistletoe is probably the most well-known and sacred tree of the Druids. It is
 used magically to combat despair, to bring beautiful dreams, to unlock the
 secrets of immortality and for protection, to protect the bearer from
 werewolves. The wood can be used for wands and some magical tools, or 
such items can be placed in a mistletoe infusion to strengthen their power.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 142
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 OAK is such an all-purpose tree, providing food, shelter and spiritual
 regeneration that it is considered sacred by just about every culture that has
 encountered it.
 Oak has the propensity to help you to find new understanding. This
 brings strength and courage in adversity. The oak tree nourishes our faith in
 ourselves and enables us to aim for what we most desire. Wands made from
 an oak which has been struck by lightning are considered to be particularly
 powerful, When you burn oak leaves it purifies the atmosphere lending
 strength, success and stability to your magic.
 PINE The pine tree is an evergreen and is known for its ability to cleanse
 the personal environment. There are numerous ways it can be used; to purify
 and sanctify an outdoor ritual area, brush the ground with a branch of pine
 wood. The cones and nuts can be carried as a fertility charm, whilst a
 cleansing and stimulating bath can be prepared by placing a few handfuls of
 pine needles in a loose-woven bag. To make things easier you could, of course,
 use a few drops of the essential oil in running water. 
ROWAN also known as Mountain Ash, Witchwood, Sorb Apple and
 Quickbeam, the rowan has long been known as an aid and protection against
 enchantment by beguiling. Sacred to the Druids and the Goddess Brigit, it is a
 very magical tree which is used for wands and amulets. This is the wood to
 use for making any magical tool which has anything to do with divining,
 invocation and communication. The rowan has the ability, perhaps more than
 any other tree, to help us increase our psychic abilities. It has a beneficial energy
 which will increase our abilities to receive visions and insights. Rowan will help
 you to discriminate between what will do you harm and good and help you
 deal with anything which threatens you.
 WILLOW The willow is a Moon tree sacred to the Goddess. The willow
 will always enhance inspired leaps of the imagination as it is known as a tree
 of dreaming and enchantment. Willow wands can be used for any ritual
 associated with the Moon and protection. 
YEW The yew is an ancient tree species that has survived since before the Ice
 Age and, as such, has been revered and used by humankind throughout the
 ages. Because of its longevity and the way it
 regenerates itself by growing new
 trunks from within, it has come to
 represent everlasting life,
 immortality, renewal,
 regeneration, rebirth and
 transformation. It is considered
 to be the most potent tree for
 protection.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 143
MONEY, FINANCE, WEALTH AND LUCK
 To draw money towards you
 All cultures have their own ways of representing money or
 luck and this spell makes use of herbs and grasses to draw it
 towards you. The coin used should preferably be new or rare
 and therefore becomes a lucky token. Initially the paper money
 should also be new.
 You will need
 • A RED OR GREEN CHARM OR TALISMAN BAG
 • A SMALL COIN
 • PAPER MONEY OF THE HIGHEST DENOMINATION YOU CAN MANAGE
 • JOHN THE CONQUEROR ROOT
 • GOATS RUE ROOT (also known as Devil’s Shoestring) OR 9 ASH LEAVES
 • PINE OR SIMILAR INCENSE OR OIL FOR PROSPERITY
 Method
 Wrap the John the Conqueror root, nine small pieces of Devil’s Shoestring
 root or nine ash leaves and the coin in the paper money.
 Ensure that you fold the money towards you.
 Put into the charm bag.
 Light the incense and hold the bag in the smoke.
 Concentrate on the idea of gaining money.
 Unobtrusively wear the bag when playing the lottery or betting on horses
 You might place it near the door of your place of business to draw money 
to you.
 You should find your finances show signs of improvement within the next
 nine days.
 John the Conqueror root is considered to be one of the most 
powerful herb roots available, so consider your actions very
 carefully when deciding to use it. It has been believed that if
 someone else touches your lucky bag the good fortune is lost, so
 guard it carefully.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 144
Business,career and 
decision making
 Spells to do with Business, Career and decision making help us
 to make the best of what we have and to maximize our
 potential. As spell making becomes an integral part of our lives
 it becomes second nature to make small adjustments to our
 surroundings and our work relationships to put ourselves in an
 advantageous position or to smooth our own or others
 everyday activities.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 145
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Resolving unfair treatment
 Abinding spell is performed by grasping the negative energy
 that is propelling a person or object and stopping it. If you
 desire justice, which often we do, then call upon Egyptian
 goddess Maat, she who balances the scales. This spell might be used 
if you feel you are being unfairly treated by a colleague or a family
 member.
 You will need
 • BLACK RIBBON ABOUT 12 INCHES LONG
 • WHITE FEATHER (to represent Maat)
 • FRANKINCENSE INCENSE
 Method
 Light the incense well before you take action so that your sacred space is as
 clear as you can make it.
 Contemplate your difficulty and acknowledge any part you may play in it.
 Tie three knots in the ribbon - one in the middle and one at each end.
 As you tie the first, say:
 Negativity here be bound.
 As you tie the second, say:
 Nastiness I do confound.
 As you tie the third, say:
 By power of three, I you impound.
 Put the ribbon and the feather together on your altar or sacred space.
 Leave it alone for three days for justice to be done.
 After this time take the ribbon and bury it, if possible in open ground.
 Keep the feather in your drawer or purse as a reminder.
 You must remember to control your own emotions of hatred or
 fear, for you must be above reproach. When you feel that the
 problem has dissipated, be tolerant and try to remain on good terms
 with the person concerned, but never tell them what you have done.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 146
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 To find the truth
 Without the truth one cannot make sensible decisions. As
 one’s intuition grows it becomes easier to tell when people
 are not telling you the truth. Until that time a simple spell
 like this ensures that the truth is revealed in the right way. It uses
 herbs and candles.
 You will need
 • HANDFUL OF THYME
 • RED CANDLE
 • FLAT DISH ON WHICH TO PUT THE HERBS
 Method
 Pour the thyme into the dish and say:
 Clarification I now require
 So that truth is spoken
 Let what is hidden now
 Be brought into the open.
 Light the candle and say:
 Speak truth with passion
 And goodbye to caution
 As the truth is said
 May I not be misled.
 Allow the candle to burn down until the wax drips into the herbs.
 Bury the cooled wax and herbs, preferably at a crossroads, having first blown
 the loose herbs to the wind.
 The herb thyme is said to bring courage, which is often needed to
 bypass our inhibitions. The colour red often represents sexual
 passion, but here is much more the passion for truth. Do remember
 therefore that sometimes the truth can hurt, and you may have
 been being protected.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 147
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Consulting the oracle
 For those who have developed intuition and learned to trust
 their foresightedness this spell offers a way of having
 information come to you when it is needed. Do this during the
 waxing of, or at, the Full Moon. The Greek goddess of justice Themis,
 on whom you will call in this spell, in her original form perceived all
 in the past, the present and the future.
 You will need
 • JASMINE OR LOTUS INCENSE
 • YOUR PARTICULAR DIVINATION TOOLS (Tarot cards, runes, pendulum)
 • THE CONTRACT OR PAPERS ON WHICH YOU NEED INFORMATION
 • A CHALICE CONTAINING RED WINE OR JUICE
 • TWO PURPLE CANDLES IN HOLDERS
 Method
 Light the incense.
 Light the candles, placing them one on each side of the chalice.
 Place your divination tools and papers in between the candles with the chalice
 above them.
 Hold your hands over your divination tools or papers and say:
 Goddess of Justice, Goddess of Law
 Bless my working here today
 Goddess of Honour, Goddess of Power
 Show me the answer that I seek,
 Through these tools I bid you speak.
 Take three sips of the juice.
 Do whatever you have to do with your tools - shuffle the cards and lay 
them out or lay out the runes, ask your questions of the pendulum.
 Sit quietly with the papers and if necessary re-read them, knowing the 
answer will come to you.
 When you are finished, stand with your arms raised and say:
 May the gods be thanked
 May they aid me with their guidance.
 The candles do not have to burn out, but can be used for another 
divinatory spell.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 148
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Because business decisions should not be made in a hurry, you will
 not necessarily receive all the information you need immediately,
 but can expect to receive insights over a period. The spell can be re
activated very easily by holding your divinatory tools or the papers
 and repeating the last three lines of the invocation.
 Good fortune in business
 This is a representational and herbal spell, which uses a mirror
 as its vehicle. Mirrors have always been seen as mystical and
 you are, in this spell, creating a doorway to riches. You could
 use paper money but a coin is marginally better.
 You will need
 • A SMALL MIRROR
 • POPPY SEEDS (for prosperity)
 • A COIN OF THE HIGHEST DENOMINATION YOU CAN AFFORD
 • PASTE GLUE
 Method
 Paint the back of the mirror with the glue.
 While it is still wet sprinkle the poppy seeds 
on the glue.
 Stick the coin in the centre of the back.
 Repeat three times:
 Coin of the realm, seeds of plenty
 May this business’ coffers never be
 empty.
 Hang the mirror on the back of the entrance door to the
 business.
 Perhaps the best way to think of this mirror is as a portal for money
 to flow through. The coin therefore acts as a focus for money
 energy. You should not use or allow the mirror to be used for
 grooming purposes. A square mirror suggests material
 manifestation, whereas a round mirror tends to enhance the energy.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 149
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Achieving a dream job
 Candles always work well when dealing with aims and
 aspirations. This spell introduces some of the techniques
 beloved of those who believe in using the Element of Fire,
 which represents drive. This particular spell is best begun on the
 night of a New Moon.
 You will need
 • 2 BROWN CANDLES (to represent the job)
 • GREEN CANDLE (for prosperity)
 • A CANDLE TO REPRESENT YOURSELF (perhaps your astrological colour)
 • PROSPERITY INCENSE SUCH AS CINNAMON
 • PROSPERITY OIL SUCH AS BERGAMOT, OR BLENDED PATCHOULI AND 
BASIL
 Method
 Light your prosperity incense.
 Anoint the candles with the prosperity oil from wick to end, since you want
 the good things to come towards you.
 Place one of the brown candles in the centre of your chosen space.
 Place the green one on the right, with your personal candle on the left.
 (These candles should be in a safe place; they have to burn out entirely.)
 As you light your personal candle, say:
 Open the way, clear my sight.
 Bring me chance, that is my right.
 Light the green candle and say:
 Good luck is mine and true victory,
 Help me Great Ones, come to me.
 Light the brown candle and say:
 Openings, work, rewards I see,
 And as I will, So Must it Be.
 Leave the candles to burn out completely.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 150
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Each night for a week - or until the candle is used up - light the second
 brown candle for 9 minutes while contemplating the job and the good to come
 out of it.
 In a sense you need to identify exactly what you mean by ‘a dream
 job’. It is of little use aiming for something which is beyond your
 capabilities, though you might go for one initially which will begin
 to take you to where you want to be. 
Bay leaves wish spell
 This spell uses plant magic and fire to achieve its purpose. The
 bay leaf possesses powerful magical properties for granting
 wishes. The first part is best done at the time of the New
 Moon, and the result will often have come to pass by the time of the
 Full Moon.
 You will need
 • 3 BAY LEAVES
 • PAPER OR PARCHMENT
 • PEN
 • CANDLE
 Method
 Write your wish three times on the paper, repeating the wish aloud.
 Place the bay leaves on the paper.
 Fold the paper into thirds and visualize your wish coming true.
 Now fold the paper into thirds once again and hide it away in a dark place.
 Keep visualizing your wish coming true as you do this.
 Once the wish is granted, the paper is burned in the candle flame as a thank
 you and the candle allowed to burn out.
 This is a spell best done in private, although it can also be performed
 on behalf of others. You should never reveal your wish to others so
 be very sure that if the wish is for them it is for the Greater Good.
 Bay promotes wisdom, so protects you from making mistakes.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 151
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Drawing out a latent talent
 This charm is to bring out an existing talent and develop a
 potential, not give you one you don’t already have. If you
 have a secret ambition you might try this spell. It uses herbs 
as its vehicle and could be done at the time of the Crescent Moon.
 You will need
 • A SMALL DRAWSTRING BAG ABOUT 1-2 INCHES DEEP
 • LIQUORICE ROOT POWDER
 • ROSE HIPS
 • FENNEL
 • CATNIP
 • ELDERFLOWER
 Method
 Put a pinch or two of the liquorice root, rose hips, fennel, catnip and
 elderflower in the bag.
 Once assembled, hang the bag outdoors at sundown.
 At midnight, remove the bag and place it around your neck.
 If you like you can make an affirmation before you sleep.
 Say these words or similar:
 As I sleep, I shall learn of my best potential.
 You must then wear the charm bag for a full twenty four hours to allow the
 spell to work.
 After that time you can place the charm bag under your pillow the night
 before anything important is to happen when you feel you need some extra
 help in reaching your goals.
 Sleeping and dreaming are often the best way we have of self
development. Most of us have secret ambitions but are prevented by
 doubts from succeeding. This spell helps to make those fears 
irrelevant.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 152
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 For study and concentration
 It is sometimes important to go right back to basics to gain the
 help we need. This is a herbal and colour formula spell which also
 calls on the powers of Bridget, the goddess of poetry, or on
 Sarasvati, the Hindu goddess of Knowledge. Your sachet will be
 purple for the former and white for the latter.
 You will need
 • 2 PARTS ROSEMARY
 • 2 PARTS BASIL
 • 1 PART CARAWAY SEEDS
 • 1 PART DRIED RIND OF CITRUS FRUIT 
(a part equals one quantity)
 • SMALL BOWL TO MIX THE HERBS
 • SMALL CLOTH BAG
 • SILVER THREAD OR CORD
 Method
 Combine the herbs thoroughly while chanting either:
 Bridget, Brighde fashioner of words,
 Help me now as I seek your aid
 Let me now bring you honour
 In what I have to say today.
 Or, for Sarasvati:
 Sarasvati, divine consort of Brahma
 Mistress of knowledge
 Teach me to use words wisely and well
 My doubts and fears I pray you dispel.
 Now put the herbs in the bag, tying it securely with the silver cord.
 Place the sachet somewhere within your work area where you can see it.
 You should find that simply by focusing on the sachet you are able
 to free your mind from distractions and find inspiration as you study
 for exams or write your articles and masterpieces. If you become
 really stuck then pick up the sachet and allow some of the fragrance
 to escape, remembering to tie it back up when you are finished.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 153
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 To help make a decision
 This spell uses colour and candles to allow you to make a
 decision over two opposing outcomes. You are in a sense
 taking the dilemma to the highest authority in order for the
 best outcome to become apparent. Do the spell at the time of the
 New Moon if there is a new beginning involved.
 You will need
 • TWO YELLOW CANDLES
 • WHITE CANDLE OR YOUR ASTROLOGICAL  CANDLE
 • A LENGTH OF PURPLE RIBBON ABOUT TWO
 FEET LONG
 • TWO PIECES OF PAPER
 • PEN
 Method
 This spell takes three days to do in total.
 Place the white candle on the exact middle of the ribbon.
 This ribbon signifies the highest possible spiritually-correct energy.
 Place the two yellow candles either end of the ribbon.
 Write the two possible outcomes on the pieces of paper and fold them
 separately.
 Place these two papers under the yellow candles on top of the ribbon.
 Light the middle (white) candle first and then the two outer (yellow) ones.
 Acknowledge the fact that you will be extinguishing them as part of the spell.
 Burn the candles for at least an hour, so that a link is properly made.
 Consider both decisions carefully.
 Snuff the candles out and next day move the papers and the outer candles
 closer to the middle candle.
 Roll the ribbon in towards the centre against the candle bases.
 Relight the candles and again burn for at least an hour.
 Each day repeat until all the candles are grouped together.
 (This should take at least three days, and, if time allows, longer.)
 Ensure that you have at least an hour’s burning time left for the final day.
 Allow the candles to burn out and within three days you should find it easy
 to make a decision.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 154
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 This process allows due consideration of all the pros and cons of the
 various options. It provides the energy for the correct decision and
 allows you to be rational and objective while still taking account of
 the emotional aspect. It keeps your mind focused on the matter in
 hand. You do not then ‘stand in your own light’ – get in the way of
 your own success.
 Legal success
 This spell is based on ancient herb and folk magic. To influence
 the outcome of legal procedures, the associated papers are
 ‘dressed’ to give added power to any decisions that have to be
 made. The technique is very simple and, of course, can also be used in
 business proceedings, but in this case should probably be carried out
 away from the office.
 You will need
 • YOUR DOCUMENTS
 • DRESSING POWDER, CONSISTING OF:
 • unscented talcum or powdered chalk
 • Deer’s Tongue leaves
 • calendula flowers
 • ginger or cinnamon powder
 Method
 Combine the leaves, flowers and ginger or cinnamon powder in equal measures
 with the talcum or chalk.
 Place your documents on a flat surface and sprinkle them thoroughly with the
 mixture.
 Draw your finger nails through the powder in wavy lines from top to bottom.
 Concentrate as you do so on the desired outcome.
 Leave the papers overnight then in the morning shake off the powder.
 This spell does not seem to work if there is any dishonesty or
 deliberate nefarious dealings on your part. However if you are
 completely above board it is possible to turn things in your favour.
 ‘Dressing’ papers can also be carried out if you have important
 exams or studying to do.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 155
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Good communication
 The crystal carnelian can be used in business spells when you
 want – or need – to be heard. It is also an excellent stone to
 wear or carry for public speaking for it strengthens the voice,
 provides self-confidence and confers eloquence on the speaker. It is
 used to counteract doubt and negative thoughts and is used in this
 spell for that purpose.
 You will need
 • A SMALL PIECE OF CARNELIAN
 • AN INCENSE SUCH AS BENZOIN WHICH IS SACRED TO MERCURY,
 ROMAN GOD OF COMMUNICATION
 Method
 The night before an important meeting light your incense.
 Hold the carnelian in the smoke of the incense. Say:
 Mercury, Ogmios, Heracles
 Gods of eloquence and right speech
 Help me tomorrow to say the right thing
 To make myself heard.
 Then sleep with the carnelian under your pillow, as one of its properties is to
 prevent nightmares.
 On the day of the meeting either have the piece of carnelian discreetly in front
 of you where you can see it or in your pocket where you can easily reach it.
 When stuck for words or in difficulty, either touch the stone or mentally
 make a link with it which will enable you to overcome the blockage.
 Simply having something else to focus on is good anyway, but
 having appealed to the gods you draw on the very source of
 communication and on the qualities of the crystal. Remember to
 thank the gods – who are from three different cultures – afterwards.
 You may need their help again. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 156
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Winning a deal
 This spell uses candle, representational and colour magic. It is
 probably best done at the time of the Full Moon if the deal is a
 merger or acquisition or the New Moon if it initiates new
 projects or implements new ideas. Thursday is also a good day being
 one to maximize opportunities. Because you are using woods and
 plants in the incense, and so will create a fair amount of smoke, it is
 better to do the spell away from the office unless you can be
 undisturbed.
 You will need
 FOR SUCCESS INCENSE:
 • 1 part each of basil, bay and oak
 • 2 parts cedarwood
 • BOWL TO MIX INCENSE
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • YOUR BURIN OR A PIN
 • YOUR COPY OF THE PAPERS NECESSARY FOR THE SUCCESSFUL DEAL
 Method
 While you mix your incense, bear in mind the outcome you require.
 You might appeal to Thor at the same time or to Ganesha, another god of
 opportunity.
 Inscribe your candle with either a sign for money, or the Ehwaz, the rune for
 success in partnership which is:
 Light your candle and the incense.
 Sit for a few moments then hold the legal papers in the smoke of the incense.
 Visualise the required outcome such as signing the papers.
 While the candle is burning out reinforce your vision of success.
 Any outcome that occurs because of this spell is not time specific i.e.
 you have not asked for a particular time frame. If this is required
 you should use Fast Luck Oil on page 122 to anoint your candle
 before you inscribe it. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 157
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 To remove obstacles
 In this spell Ganesha, the Hindu elephant-headed god, is invoked
 to ensure the success of any difficult task and to grant wishes.
 Because he represents a combination of strength and shrewdness,
 he is able to get rid of the most intimidating of barriers. We have
 categorized this as a career spell, although obviously it can be
 adjusted to encompass other life decisions.
 You will need:
 • YELLOW CANDLE
 • RED CANDLE
 • YOUR FAVOURITE FLOWERS
 • SANDALWOOD POWDER
 • FIGURE OF GANESHA OR OF AN ELEPHANT
 • COOKED RICE
 • PEN AND PAPER
 Method
 Place the flowers and the rice in front of the figure while the sandalwood is
 burning.
 With your fingertips to your forehead and your hands together, bow to the
 statue and say:
 Greetings, Ganesha.
 Welcome to my sacred space
 With your help, all success shall be mine.
 I come to you, knowing you will grant my wishes
 All impediments are removed.
 I honour your presence,
 Good fortune be with you and with me and mine.
 I praise you Ganesha!
 Light the yellow and red candles and tell Ganesha what you most desire.
 Now commit your wishes to paper and place the paper under the statue. Say:
 God of wisdom, God of strength
 Loving bringer of success
 Take now these wishes of mine.
 Mould them, shape them, work them
 Till together we can bring them to fruition.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 158
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Bow as before and put the candles out.
 Repeat for the two following days, finally letting the candles burn themselves out.
 Afterwards, do not disturb the statue for three days and never ask for the
 same thing twice.
 Before long, often within three days, a new way will be shown to
 enable you to achieve your objective. Remember to give thanks by
 sharing your good fortune with others and making a further
 offering to Ganesha who appreciates effort made. 
To improve your boss , s attitude
 This is a combination of a candle and mirror spell. Often spells
 to do with work are best done at home and a reminder taken
 in to reinforce it. The spell is carried out for seven days and
 then reinforced once a week. Tuesday or Thursday are good days.
 You will need
 • A SMALL MIRROR THAT WILL FIT UNOBTRUSIVELY IN YOUR DRAWER
 • A WHITE CANDLE
 • OIL SUCH AS JASMINE FOR SPIRITUAL LOVE OR YLANG YLANG FOR
 BALANCE
 Method
 Anoint the candle.
 Light the candle and burn it for at least an hour.
 Concentrate for a few minutes on the image of your boss as they are when
 they annoy you.
 Look in the mirror and visualise them being pleasant and calm.
 See yourself working with them as an efficient team.
 Carry on doing this each evening for a week then do it once a week thereafter
 for at least six weeks.
 In between times keep the mirror in your desk drawer and reinforce the
 visualization of them being calm every day.
 You should see an improvement after a week – others may also notice
 a change as time goes on. As you become less stressed you may find
 you become more creative and can deal with other petty annoyances.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 159
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Knot spell
 To rid yourself of problems or a troublesome situation, you can
 use a representation of the problem in a tangled and knotted
 length of yarn. There are then differing ways of getting rid of
 the problem. This spell is best done at the time of the Full Moon and
 is in two parts.
 You will need
 • BIODEGRADABLE STRING OR COTTON YARN
 • INGREDIENTS FOR A RITUAL BATH
 (including candles and a purification oil)
 Method- Part One
 Your string needs to be biodegradable because it reinforces the idea that your
 problems will dissolve.
 The string or yarn can be in the appropriate colour for the problem to be
 solved (green for money, red for love, etc).
 Sit quietly and think of all your fears and problems.
 Let them pass into the yarn.
 Tie this in knots to symbolize how mixed up your problems makes you feel.
 One way of dealing with your difficulties is to take the knotted yarn to a
 high place and let the wind blow it away, along with your negativity.
 A second way is to bury the yarn in soft ground, though this method will
 mean that the resolution of your problems may come slowly.
 A third way is to begin to untie the knots and as you do so ask for help in
 seeing and understanding solutions.
 This last method does not have to be done all at once but can be done over time.
 Method- Part Two
 Whichever method you use make sure you take a ritual bath or shower
 cleansing after working with the string.
 You need a candle to represent yourself, a black candle to signify the
 negativity and one other in the colour of your choice to suggest your life
 without problems.
 Anoint the candles with a purification or blessing oil.
 Anoint the black candle from the end to the wick to remove bad luck.
 The others are done from the wick to the end to bring you what you desire.
 Have your ritual bath as usual.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 160
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 This spell has two parts, first getting rid of the problems then
 cleansing yourself of the effects. Only then can you decide how you
 are going to make changes in your life so that you do not attract
 yet more problems.
 Encourage risk taking
 This spell uses candles and the Ogham Staves, an ancient
 symbolic alphabet similar to the Runes, which was used by the
 Celtic people. Today we tend to use the representations singly
 in the form of amulets or as here to inscribe candles. In addition we
 can also use herb oils for courage.
 You will need
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • ST JOHN’S WORT OIL OR SAGE
 • YOUR BURIN
 Method
 Anoint your candle with the oil (for courage).
 Inscribe it with the Ogham Stave Coll which represents wisdom: 
Light the candle.
 Ask for help from the Irish God Ogma, who gave us the staves, in whatever
 task you are about to undertake.
 As the candle burns out think very carefully of what the risks might be in
 your venture and what you can do to minimize them.
 This spell is designed to give you the courage and wisdom to take
 risks in whatever way is appropriate for you. It need not be simply a
 business risk, but some way in which you must stretch your own
 boundaries. It does not ensure success but allows you the potential
 for achievement.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 161
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 To create opportunity
 This spell appeals to the Roman goddess Ops who used to be
 petitioned by sitting down and touching the Earth with one
 hand, since she was a deity of prosperity, crops and fertility.
 During the Full Moon, using sympathetic magic, a wish doll (poppet)
 representing health and happiness is made to draw opportunities
 towards you.
 You will need
 • A BOWL OF SAND (to represent the earth)
 • GREEN CLOTH
 • NEEDLE AND THREAD
 • PEN
 • CINNAMON OR CEDAR INCENSE
 • DRIED CAMOMILE, VERVAIN OR SQUILL
 • MINT AND HONEYSUCKLE OIL
 Method
 Make a poppet out of the cloth.
 While concentrating on the opportunities available to you or your business,
 write your name on the poppet and stuff it with the dried herbs that have had
 a few drops of the oils added. Sew the figure shut.
 Light the incense.
 Hold the poppet in the incense smoke, say:
 Goddess of opportunity,
 Bring good fortune now to me
 Guide me by your gentle hand
 For I am as worthy as these grains of sand.
 Let the sand trickle through your fingers to signify touching the earth.
 Repeat this an odd number of times (seven works very well).
 Keep your poppet safe, you do not have to have it with you at all times, just
 with your possessions or papers. 
For the spell to continue to work, renew it every Full Moon.
 This is a good spell to use for business opportunities, since the poppet
 can be kept unobtrusively in a drawer or cupboard and hopefully
 will become imbued with the excitement of your day-to-day work. 
It can also be used when you wish to enhance your career prospects.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 162
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Boardroom strength and endurance
 This spell is representative and uses the runic alphabet as a
 symbol for strength and endurance. The Norse people had a
 life of hardship and privation, and illustrated this in their
 runes. The idea that one gains strength from animals and their
 powers is shamanic in origin. Today we can draw on the same power
 in business. This spell should be performed in your boardroom.
 You will need
 • THE RUNIC SYMBOL AUROCHS TO REPRESENT STRENGTH, COURAGE
 AND OVERCOMING OBSTACLES
 Method
 Choose a point level with halfway down the boardroom table.
 Mindful of the qualities you are calling on, ‘walk’ the shape of the symbol
 around the table.
 Ensuring that that highest point is close to where the chairperson or principal
 speaker sits.
 If you feel you should include the whole table then ‘walk’ the rune again in
 the opposite direction.
 If you yourself anticipate a difficult meeting draw the rune on a piece of paper
 and place it in your pocket for the duration of the meeting.
 Calling upon the power of the auroch, an enormous ox-like beast, is
 said to have given the Vikings the power for conquest. By the use of
 sympathetic magic in this spell, the boardroom, which today is so
 often the ‘field of battle’ and highly competitive, can become a more
 harmonious and fruitful environment.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 163
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Weaving success
 The use of ribbons is an extension of knot magic and is often
 used  in binding or protection spells. However, this one is an
 unobtrusive way of enhancing the energy of your business as
 well as ensuring its security. Braiding three strands links us with the
 triple-aspected Great Mother – Maid, Mother, Crone.
 You will need
 • THREE EQUAL LENGTHS OF RIBBON 
• dark blue for success in long-term plans, and clarity
 • yellow for mental power, wealth, communication and travel
 • brown for grounding, stability, and endurance
 • A LARGE SAFETY PIN
 Method
 Pin the three ribbons
 together at the top to
 make braiding easier.
 Braid the ribbons neatly
 together.
 As you do so, repeat the following
 words as often as you feel is right
 remembering the significances of 
the colours:
 Great Mother Great Mother
 Come to me now
 As these strands weave and become one
 May this business grow.
 Now loop the braid around the front door handle so that anyone who comes
 into the business must pass it.
 You should find that the qualities you have woven into the business
 begin to bring results very quickly. Combinations of different
 colours will have different results; red will bring vitality and
 willpower, orange success and prosperity through creativity and
 yellow communication, mental power and wealth. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 164
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Ceridwen’s spell
 This spell pays homage to Ceridwen a Welsh Goddess and
 nurturer of Taliesin, a druidic Bard. She is invoked here, and
 asked for the gift of inspiration, called Awen by the Druids.
 This brings poetic inspiration, prophecy, and the ability to shape
shift (become something else). In bringing about change, this
 becomes a spell for creativity in all its forms. One of Ceridwen’s
 symbols is the cauldron.
 You will need
 • A CAULDRON
 • SEEDS (preferably of wheat)
 • A WHITE CANDLE
 • INCENSE MADE UP OF:
 • 1 part rosebuds
 • 1 part cedarwood chips
 • 1 part sweet myrrh
 Method 
Blend your incense the night before you plan to use it.
 Light your incense and the candle.
 Place the cauldron in front of you and half fill with wheat seeds.
 Stir the cauldron clockwise three times and let the seeds trickle through your
 fingers as you say:
 Ceridwen, Ceridwen,
 I seek your favour
 Just as you searched for the boy Gwion
 So I search for the power of Awen
 Inspiration to be what I must, to discover the known, 
And to flow with change.
 Grant, I pray, this power.
 Since Awen is a threefold gift you should repeat the stirring of the cauldron
 twice more or once on each of the following two days.
 When you have finished, tip the remains of the incense into the cauldron and
 bury the contents.
 The candle may be snuffed out, but do not use it for anything else.
 .
 Ceridwen is said to have brewed herbs together to bring the gift of
 inspiration to her ugly son Agfaddu. Gwion was set to mind the
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 165
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 potion but, in being splashed by the potion, absorbed its powers. In
 escaping the wrath of Ceridwen he became a seed of corn and was
 swallowed by her in the guise of a black hen. The Welsh bard Taliesin
 born nine months later was thus an initiated form of the boy.
 Artists, writers and poets can all seek this kind of inspiration.
 Stop gossip
 This spell utilizes representational magic and is a way to stop
 malicious gossip. It is useful in an office environment where
 almost inevitably factions arise and people become embroiled.
 All that is necessary is to identify the ring leader.
 You will need
 • A SAMPLE OF THE PERSON’S HANDWRITING (failing that, a piece of paper which
 has been handled by them)
 • A JAR WITH A SCREW TOP LID
 • WAX TO SEAL IT
 Method
 Place the sample of handwriting or paper in the jar and screw it tightly shut.
 Carry this away from the offending person.
 If the badmouthing does not stop immediately, take the jar and seal it with the
 wax saying:
 Gossip and ill-feeling begone
 Trouble us no more.
 This should have the desired effect.
 When the difficulty is clearly past remove the paper from the jar and burn it.
 Do not use the jar again for magical purposes.
 Remember with this spell that you are not binding the person, you
 are stopping their specific action, so releasing the paper means you
 are indicating that you are no longer involved with them. They
 must be free to go their own way. Also try to make sure that you do
 not get involved in other gossip.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 166
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Luck in business
 This is another herbal charm bag which can be further
 enhanced by adding new coins, to represent money. By its use
 of comfrey it protects the owner while travelling, and adds
 zing by Dragon’s Blood. It is best done at the time of the Waxing
 Moon on a Wednesday or Thursday.
 You will need
 • A DRAWSTRING BAG ABOUT 2-4 INCHES DEEP
 • BAYBERRY
 • RED CLOVER
 • COMFREY
 • DRAGON’S BLOOD
 • MANDRAKE ROOT
 • 5-6 TULIP PETALS
 • 3 NEW COINS IF WANTED
 Method
 Put equal measures of the herbs into the bag.
 Inscribe your full name on one side of the mandrake root, then the runes:
 Dagaz (for clear vision and awareness)
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 Fehu (for wealth)
 167
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Teiwaz (for justice and altruism)
 on the other and put that into the bag along with the coins if you use them.
 Consecrate and charge the bag.
 Keep it in your pocket, in the cash box or on a window sill, remembering to
 shake it occasionally to activate the energy.
 This works very well if you are in business for yourself. When
 inscribing the mandrake you can use the business name or logo if
 you wish. If you can make it a regular routine to reinforce its aims
 every week you should not have any problems.
 Hecate’s spell
 This is a spell which uses an incantation to Hecate, the goddess
 of the Crossroads. She therefore can assist in the making of
 important decisions, which is why she is approached in this
 instance. Her sacred day is Friday, so that would be the best day to
 perform this spell.
 You will need
 • INCENSE SPECIFIC TO HECATE MADE UP OF:
 • 3 parts sandalwood
 • 2 parts cypress
 • 1 part spearmint
 • SMALL BOWL CONTAINING HONEY
 Method
 Light your incense.
 Contemplate your decision. If necessary write down all the options.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 168
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Stand with your arms in the Goddess position (arms crossed) to acknowledge
 the presence.
 Read the incantation below aloud and let the energy of it flow through you.
 All powerful Hecate,
 goddess of victory
 Bestower of good fortune
 and infinite wealth
 Hear my prayer, that I send
 through this sweet smelling smoke
 Wise Watcher of the crossroads
 and the forking alleyways
 Of sailors, and travellers
 and all journeying folk
 Hear me now as I too
 Humbly make my approach.
 Raise the bowl of honey and say:
 Accept this offering
 of fresh clear honey
 As sweet and as pure
 as your fine beauty
 Bestow divine light
 Bring me clarity
 Hear my prayer now
 As I choose which road.
 Put the honey bowl down.
 Raise your arms again in
 acknowledgement of Hecate.
 Lower your arms.
 Sit down quietly knowing that the
 answer will come to you 
and you will know which decision to
 make.
 You may not receive an answer
 immediately, but rest assured that
 one will come. Hecate has become
 known as one of the Goddesses who
 works at night, so you may find you
 receive an answer through dreams.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 169
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Moon wishes
 This spell uses candles and meditation. It can be done at both
 New and Full Moon, and uses the Moon’s energy. By
 meditating before you sleep you are opening yourself up to
 allowing the influences from your Higher Self – the part which
 knows what is right for you – to come through.
 You will need
 • FIVE WHITE CANDLES
 • A COLOURED CANDLE OF YOUR CHOICE(perhaps representing the wish or 
perhaps in the colour of your astrological sign)
 Method
 Clear your mind of all clutter or meditate for a short time to be sure you have
 clarified your wishes.
 Place the white candles in the shape of a pentagram where they can burn
 safely.
 Light the five candles starting from the top first and working clockwise.
 Or, if it feels right, light according to the connecting lines of the pentagram 
again starting at the top.
 As you do so say:
 Moon above which glows so bright
 Guard my sleep so deep tonight
 I pray to you with this request
 My life works out at my behest.
 Allow the candles to burn for at least half an hour before putting them out
 and composing yourself for sleep
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 170
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 The next morning light the other candle and meditate or contemplate your
 wishes for another thirty minutes.
 Spend some time visualising what life will be like when your wishes are
 granted.
 Repeat this whole procedure for the next three nights.
 Finally, on the fourth morning, relight all of the candles and allow them to
 burn out while you play some rousing music that means something to you.
 In the last hour while the candles are still burning reconsider your wishes and
 make any adjustments to them which seem realistic.
 This spell does take some time to complete and also requires that
 you spend a fair length of time in contemplation. This does mean
 however that you can be realistic in your expectations and there
 should be few blocks to achieving what you want. There is little need
 to be frivolous.
 Activating a wish
 It would be easy to categorise the granting of wishes as a separate
 branch of spell -making, but in fact, depending on the offering
 you make, it will be probably crystal, candle, herbal or symbolic.
 Timings and other correspondences can be according to your wish or
 need.
 You will need
 • YOUR CHOSEN GIFT TO THE ELEMENTS, SPIRITS OR DEITIES (This might be
 a suitable crystal, plant, rune or piece of metal)
 • A SUITABLE PLACE TO MAKE THAT OFFERING (Perhaps a quiet woodland, a
 running stream, a high place, or in urban areas a park, waterway or high building)
 Method
 Before you begin you will need to have given some thought to your wish.
 Be very specific in stating what you want otherwise you may get more than
 you bargained for.
 State your wish clearly and as briefly as possibly, addressing your deity or
 spirit by name or title if you can, for instance:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 171
BUSINESS, CAREER AND DECISION MAKING
 Pan and spirits of the woodland
 Hear now my request
 I wish for health, love and happiness
 For [name]
 When you make your offering, be appropriate.
 If your wish is for material goods or finance you could use a crystal or coin
 and bury it to signify the tangibility of your desire.
 If your wish has an emotional content then you might throw your offering
 into running water.
 If your wish is for knowledge or information then signify this by getting up
 to a high place and using the currents of air.
 (You might for instance choose to scatter some plant seeds to help restore the
 ecological balance.)
 If choosing to use the element of fire outside then be responsible, use only dead
 wood and never place your fire close to plants or buildings.
 Repeat your wish three times.
 This is so that any negative attached to your desire should have dropped away
 by the third request and by then you will also be more aware of your own
 feelings and whether you really want what you are asking for.
 Making wishes is a quick way of making things happen within your
 everyday world, often without having to carry out a full-blown
 ceremony. As you get to know your own capabilities you will be able
 to take advantage of the moments which are presented to you.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 172
Protection
 Almost inevitably Protection spells form an integral part of
 any spellworker’s armoury. When you are working with
 powers which are not well understood you can open yourself
 up to all sorts of negativity, and sometimes sheer goodwill is
 not enough to protect your own personal space – you need a
 little extra help. Equally as you develop your own abilities it
 becomes possible to protect those around you from harm.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 173
PROTECTION
 A blessing for the heart of the home
 This is a candle, crystal and representational spell which calls
 upon Hestia, goddess of the hearth and home, to bring her
 qualities of constancy, calmness and gentleness to bear on your
 home. Hestia is supportive of the family and home and was praised
 by the poet Homer in ancient Greece.
 You will need
 • LAVENDER CANDLE
 • SMALL SILVER OR BRASS BOWL IN WHICH TO STAND THE CANDLE
 • LAVENDER FLOWERS
 • SMALL PIECE OF AMETHYST
 Method
 Before placing the candle in the bowl raise the latter above your head in both
 hands and say:
 Hestia, you who tends the holy house of the lord Apollo, draw
 near, and bestow grace upon my home.
 Place the candle in the bowl, making certain the candle will stand firmly.
 Light the candle and when it is properly alight pass the amethyst three times
 through the flame. Say:
 Hestia, glorious is your portion and your right.
 Place the amethyst in your hearth or close to your fireplace.
 (If you have no fireplace then as close to the centre of your home as possible.)
 Sprinkle some of the lavender flowers across your doorway to keep your home
 safe. Say:
 Hail Hestia, I will remember you.
 Allow the candle to burn down and then place some of the lavender flowers
 in the bowl, leaving it in a safe space.
 At times when the atmosphere in the home becomes somewhat
 fraught, this spell can bring a period of peace and tranquillity. The
 bowl, lavender flowers and amethyst are all sacred to Hestia and
 remind you of her presence.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 174
PROTECTION
 To guard against road rage
 One aspect of protective devices is to make them appropriate
 for the circumstances you are in. For protection against our
 own or other’s road rage, we can use a sachet of herbs, and
 representational objects and fashion a charm bag which is reactivated
 for its purpose each journey.
 You will need
 • PIECE OF COMFREY ROOT
 • TWO BAY LEAVES
 • ST CHRISTOPHER MEDAL OR THE RUNE OF ELHAZ INSCRIBED ON PAPER
 • A SMALL PIECE OF ROSE QUARTZ
 • A ROSE PINK OR GREEN SACHET
 Method
 As you fill your sachet or charm bag with the items bear in mind the purpose
 of each object:
 Comfrey root for protection
 Bay leaves to drive away negativity
 St Christopher for travellers
 The rune to remind you of your responsibilities
 Rose quartz for healing and loving feelings
 All the ingredients to represent your ability to be in harmony with the rest of
 the world
 Place the sachet in the glove compartment or hang it from the rear view mirror
 where it cannot obscure the view.
 When you find yourself getting irritated or faced by someone else’s irritation
 simply look at, touch or hold the sachet.
 Each time you travel remember that this particular device is
 specifically against road rage, so needs to be held briefly beforehand
 to guard against unforeseen incidents. Hopefully you will then set
 out on your journey calm and relaxed.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 175
PROTECTION
 To summon help from the elements
 This is only one way to summon help from the elements. You
 use representations of each element and address the spirits of
 each element in turn to seek their assistance. When you have
 finished your task each element is then honoured by returning it to
 the earth.
 You will need
 • WHITE CANDLE (to represent Fire)
 • SMALL BOWL OF SALT OR SAND (to represent Earth)
 • SMALL BOWL OF WATER
 • INCENSE SUCH AS BERGAMOT(to represent Air)
 Method
 Light the incense and the candle.
 Bear in mind as you do so at this stage that you are making use of the
 elements of Fire and Air.
 Call upon the power of these elements.
 Ask for their help in the work you are about to do.
 Use your own words preferably but do keep it simple.
 You might say for Fire something like:
 I request your presence, Oh Spirit of Fire
 I ask for your help, your power I require.
 For Air your words might be:
 Come to me now, Oh Spirit of Air
 I pray above all for a mind that is clear.
 Lift the bowl of salt and likewise invoke the powers of the Earth element.
 Say perhaps:
 Approach now I pray, spirit of Earth
 Help I do need, and prove now my worth.
 Do the same with the water.
 Say:
 Come to me now, Oh, Spirit of Water
 My feelings are clear your strength is now sought for.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 176
PROTECTION
 When you have finished, sprinkle the salt or sand on the earth, pour the water
 onto the earth, bury the ashes of the incense and snuff out the candle.
 This is not a spell as such, but more preparation for magical 
working. Whereas you can cast a circle within which to carry out
 your more important workings this allows you to set up a sacred
 space very quickly.
 Cleansing the body  of 
negative energies
 This spell is a protection spell using candle magic and an appeal to
 the elements. One aspect needs to be noted. Black candles were
 once associated with Black Magic and malevolence but today are
 much more used to represent loss, sadness, discord and negativity. 
You will need
 • WHITE CANDLE (for positive energy)
 • BLACK OR DARK BLUE CANDLE (for negative energy)
 • GREEN CANDLE (for healing)
 Method
 In your sacred space, place the candles in a triangle with the green candle
 closest to you. Clear your mind of everything except what you are doing.
 Light the white candle, being aware of its symbolism and say the following:
 Earth, Fire, Wind, Water and Spirit;
 I ask thee to cleanse my body of all negative energies.
 Light the black or blue candle, being aware also of its symbolism
 Repeat the words above and pause to let the energies come to a natural balance
 Light the green candle and again repeat the above words.
 Sit back, keep your mind clear and be peaceful for at least 10 minutes.
 When the time feels right either snuff out the candles or allow the green one
 to burn right down so that you are filled with healing energy.
 You should feel rested and relaxed and more ready to tackle problems
 as they arise. Make this part of your weekly routine till you feel it
 no longer to be necessary.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 177
PROTECTION
 Fire protection spell
 This spell uses the element of Fire to protect you and create a
 visual image which you carry with you throughout your 
daily life. It requires a clear space outside of about twenty feet
 in diameter initially and you must be careful not to set any
 vegetation alight through the heat of your fires. You can also
 perform this spell on a beach.
 You will need
 • ENOUGH FALLEN WOOD TO FEED FOUR FIRES
 • DRY BRUSHWOOD OR PAPER TO START THE FIRES
 • MATCHES
 • WATER TO DOUSE THE FIRE
 Method
 You should make sure that you only gather fallen wood or driftwood.
 Make sure you have enough to keep each of the fires burning for about half
 an hour.
 Taking up one of the sticks of wood, draw a rough circle about eleven feet in
 diameter. Determine the four directions North, East, South, and West (use a
 compass, the sun, moon, or stars).
 Lay a small fire at each point just inside the circle but do not light them.
 Put spare wood safely beside each fire to keep them burning for at least half
 an hour.
 Walking to the South first, light the fire proclaiming as you do:
 Nothing from the South can harm me
 Welcome Spirits of the South.
 Wait until one of the pieces of wood is burning, pick it up and move to the
 West, Light the fire and say:
 Nothing from the West can harm me
 Welcome Spirits of the West.
 Again take up a burning branch and move to the North.
 Light the fire while saying:
 Nothing from the North can harm me
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 178
PROTECTION
 Welcome spirits of the North.
 Again take up a burning piece of wood and take it to the East.
 Light that fire and say:
 Nothing from the East can harm me
 Welcome spirits from the East.
 Take up a burning branch and carry it to the South.
 Thrust it into the southern fire and choose a new branch.
 Trace an arc with it above your head from South to North, saying:
 Nothing from above can harm me
 Welcome spirits from above.
 Finally, throw the wood down in the centre of the circle and say:
 Nothing from below can harm me
 Let spirits come who wish me well.
 This last stick represents Aether or spirit and this technique has created a sphere
 of energy which you can call on whenever you need it.
 You can replace that piece of wood into the southern fire if you wish, or
 contemplate it as it burns out.
 Replenish the fires as necessary.
 Sit in the centre of the circle and recognise that the fires are purifying and
 cleansing your personal environment on every level of existence.
 Watch each fire carefully to see if you can perceive the spirits of the elements:
 Salamanders for Fire
 Gnomes, dryads or brownies for Earth
 Sylphs for Air
 Undines for Water
 Revel in the warmth of the fires, appreciate their light and sense their
 protection.
 Remember these feelings for they are what protects you as you leave this space.
 When the fires begin to die down, douse them with the water and bury the
 embers to prevent them flaring again.
 Erase the markings of the circle and leave the space.
 This spell or ritual (depending how ornate you wish to make it) as it
 is done in the open air creates a barrier of protection for you, but
 may also make you more conscious of how fire works. In this case it
 consumes that which is dead and finished with, leaving only its
 power in its wake.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 179
PROTECTION
 To reverse negativity or hexes
 Try this candle spell using the element of Fire to reverse any
 negativity or hexes you become aware of being sent in your
 direction. Anger from others can often be dealt with in this
 way, but deliberate maliciousness may require more force. You need
 to be as dispassionate as you can when dealing with a hex, which is
 defined as ‘an evil spell’.
 You will need
 • PURPLE CANDLE
 • ROSEMARY OIL
 • WHITE PAPER
 • BLACK INK
 • FIRE-PROOF DISH SUCH AS YOUR CAULDRON OR AN ASHTRAY
 Method
 Visualize all blocks in your life-path being removed.
 Anoint your candle with the oil.
 On the piece of paper write in black ink:
 All blocks are now removed.
 Fold the paper three times away from you.
 Light the candle and burn the paper in your dish.
 Invoke the power of fire and its elemental spirits by repeating three times:
 Firedrakes and salamanders,
 Aid me in my quest,
 Protect me from all evil thoughts
 Turn away and send back this hex.
 After the third repitition close the spell in whatever way is appropriate for
 you.
 A simple statement is enough:
 Let it be so.
 No-one has the right to curse or malign another person and all you
 are doing with this spell is turning the negativity back where it
 belongs. When you use the power of fire you are harnessing one of
 the most potent forces of the universe, so be sure you use it wisely
 and well.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 180
PROTECTION
 Household gods
 Household gods are found in most folk religions. In Rome, the
 penates were household gods, primarily guardians of the
 storeroom. They were worshipped in connection with the
 lares, beneficent spirits of ancestors, and, as guardians of the hearth,
 with Vesta or Hestia. This spell is representational and pays due
 deference to them for protection from harm.
 You will need
 • A REPRESENTATION OF YOUR HOUSEHOLD GODS 
(a statue, a picture or something significant for you)
 • REPRESENTATIONS OF YOUR ANCESTORS 
(perhaps a gift from a grandparent, an heirloom, a photograph)
 • FRESH FLOWERS OR TAPER CANDLES
 • INCENSE STICKS OF YOUR CHOICE
 • A BOWL OF UNCOOKED RICE
 • A BOWL OF WATER
 Method
 This technique offers food to the gods
 and the ancestors and blends pagan and
 Western thought.
 Place your representational objects either close to
 your kitchen door or near the cooker, today often
 considered the heart of the home.
 Light your incense and place the bowls in position in front.
 Light the candles or place the flowers so that you have created a shrine.
 Spend a little time communing with the penates and with the lares.
 Welcome them into your home and give thanks for their help and protection.
 (In Thailand a sometimes quite intricate ‘spirit house’ is provided away from
 the shadow of the house for the ancestors.)
 Their presence is acknowledged each day in order that they do not become
 restless.
 Replace the water and rice weekly.
 Remembering to honour the household gods and the ancestors
 means that their spirits will look favourably upon us at all times.
 Often if there is a problem, taking it to the household gods for
 consideration is enough to have the resolution become apparent.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 181
PROTECTION
 Invoking the household gods
 This ritual is best performed during the Waxing Moon. It could
 be considered a kind of birthday party, so feel free to include
 food and drink as part of it, if you so wish.
 You will need
 • AN INCENSE THAT REMINDS YOU OF HERBS, FORESTS AND GREEN
 GROWING THINGS
 • GREEN CANDLE IN A HOLDER
 • YOUR WAND
 • SMALL STATUES OF DEER OR OTHER FOREST ANIMALS
 • PINE CONES, IVY, HOLLY, OR SOMETHING SIMILAR
 • SYMBOL APPROPRIATE TO YOUR GUARDIAN (e.g. a crescent moon for the Moon
 Goddess)
 Method
 Decorate the area around the symbol of your guardian with the greenery.
 Clean the guardian symbol so that there is no dust or dirt on it.
 If the symbol is small enough put it on the altar, otherwise leave it nearby.
 Light the incense and candle.
 Stand before your altar and say:
 Guardian spirits, I invite you to join me at this altar.
 You are my friends and I wish to thank you.
 Take the incense and circle the guardian symbol three times, moving clockwise
 and say:
 Thank you for the help you give to keep this home clean and
 pleasant.
 Move the candle clockwise around the symbol three times and say:
 Thank you for the light you send to purify this space and dispel
 the darkness.
 With the wand in the hand you consider most powerful, encircle the symbol
 again three times clockwise and say:
 I now ask for your help and protection for me, my family and all
 who live herein.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 182
PROTECTION
 I ask that you remove trouble makers of all sorts, incarnate and
 discarnate.
 I thank you for your love and understanding.
 Stand with your arms upraised.
 Call upon your own deity and say:
 [Name of deity] I now invoke the guardian of this household
 whom I have invited into my home.
 I honour it in this symbol of its being.
 I ask a blessing and I add my thanks for its protection and
 friendship.
 If you have more than one guardian, change all the ‘its’ to ‘their’
 and so on. Spend a few moments lovingly caressing the symbol,
 sending out the thought that the guardian is important to you. Be
 aware of the subtle changes in atmosphere which occur as the
 protective spirits become part of your environment. Finally, thank
 the unseen participants. 
Ring of protection
 In this method of working you place a protective shield around
 your home so that no harm can come to either it or the people
 therein.
 You will need
 • THE POWER OF YOUR OWN MIND
 Method
 Visualize a ring of light surrounding your property.
 Ask your guardians or favourite deities to protect it and its
 occupants for as long as necessary.
 Reinforce the circle of light whenever 
you go away
 or, indeed, whenever you think about it.
 It really is that simple!
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 183
PROTECTION
 Keep your child safe
 This technique is based on an old nursery rhyme which began
 life as a prayer. With the addition of representations of the
 Elements it becomes useful in protecting a child as they sleep.
 More importantly it is unobtrusive and does not frighten the child.
 You will need
 • GLASS OF WATER
 • A CLEAR QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 • FEW DROPS OF LAVENDER OIL
 • PINE CONE
 Method
 The articles above represent - in order - Water, Earth, Air and Fire and have
 several significances in protection spells
 When first activating the spell:
 Hold the crystal in your hands for a few moments to activate its protective powers.
 Do the same with the glass of water.
 Drop the crystal into the water and add a few drops of lavender oil.
 Visualize your child shielded from all harm.
 Hold the pine cone in your hands and ask for its powers of regeneration to be
 activated.
 Place the charged glass and the pine cone together on the bedside table.
 Repeat the words:
 Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,
 Bless the bed he lies upon
 Four corners to his bed,
 Four angels round his head:
 One to watch, one to pray,
 And two to bear his troubles away!
 Obviously if you have a little girl you will use the words ‘she’ and ‘her’
 instead of ‘he’ and ‘his’.
 Each morning throw away the water in the glass - this is not for drinking 
either down the toilet or outside your door since it is by now ‘contaminated’.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 184
PROTECTION
 Renew the water each night, repeating the rhyme as you do so and refresh the
 other objects as you feel it necessary.
 If you make the last part of this spell part of the nightly routine, as
 your child grows up he or she might like to participate in the
 actions and words and should develop a sense of security because of
 them. If your child has nightmares, use the pine cone as part of your
 soothing technique by giving it to him or her to hold.
 To protect a child
 By the time a child is about seven he or she is beginning to
 venture out into the world away from home often without
 either of the parents being present. Teaching your child a
 simple protection technique is helpful for both you and them. This is
 based on Eastern ideas.
 You will need
 • YOUR CHILD’S IMAGINATION
 Method
 Discuss with your child the best image they can have of protection. This might be
 a shield, a cloak, a wall or more effectively being surrounded by a cocoon of light.
 Working with their own visualization image, have them experience what it is
 like to feel safe and protected.
 Agree that whenever they are frightened or under pressure they can use this
 visualization.
 Now whenever you have to be separated from them, repeat these words or
 similar to yourself three times:
 Forces of light, image of power
 Protect [name of child] till we meet again.
 Now perceive them surrounded by light and know that they are as safe as you
 can make them.
 You may need to reinforce for the child the idea of them feeling
 protected by their own image, but coincidentally you are teaching
 them to have courage and to experience their own aura and circle of
 power. You may well find that your parental antennae tend to be
 alerted quite quickly when your child is having a problem. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 185
PROTECTION
 To prevent intrusion into a building
 In this spell you use visualization and power to create a barrier to
 protect your home or a place of business. This means that only
 those who you want to enter do so and anyone else will be driven
 away. The spell can be reinforced at any time.
 You will need
 • THE POWER OF YOUR OWN MIND
 Method
 Sit in your sacred space and gather your energy until
 you feel extremely powerful.
 In the main doorway to the building, face outwards
 and visualise a huge wheel in front of you.
 Put your hands out in front of you as though
 grasping the wheel at the positions of twelve o’clock
 and six o’clock with your left hand on top.
 Visualize the energy building up in your hands and
 forming a ‘light rod’ or laser beam between them.
 Bring your hands through 180 degrees so they change
 position (right hand now on top).
 Pause with your hands at nine o’clock and three
 o’clock and again build up a light rod between them.
 As you do so say something like:
 Let none with evil intent enter here.
 Again feel the energy build up between your hands and say:
 May those who would harm us, stay away.
 Bring your hands together level with your left hip and ‘throw’ the energy
 from your hands to create a barrier in front of the door.
 This powerful spell should be sufficient to prevent all intrusion, but
 you could reinforce it by treating all other entrances in the same
 way and could also visualize small wheels at the windows. You
 might vary the technique by tracing a banishing pentagram on the
 door itself.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 186
PROTECTION
 Protecting your home
 This spell can be used when you have been burgled or your
 home has been violated in some way. It uses symbolism and
 representation and needs to be done as soon as possible after
 the event. There are several stages to the process and each one should
 make you feel progressively better.
 You will need
 • A LARGE QUANTITY OF ROCK SALT
 • A PURIFICATION INCENSE (such as Frankincense or Copal)
 • ESSENTIAL OIL (for a ritual bath to rebalance your aura)
 • CANDLE (preferably white)
 • CLEANING CLOTH
 Method
 You will want to cleanse your house to get rid of undue influences, so use the
 occasion to get rid of anger at the same time.
 Put a few drops of essential oil in the water you use and as you do your
 cleaning, mentally clear the atmosphere in each room spiritually and
 emotionally, converting any anger into love for your home.
 When you have finished, throw away the cloth you used and as you do so
 mentally close off your association with the violator of your premises.
 Now take a ritual bath, lighting your candle for fresh energy, adding the
 essential oil and a teaspoon of salt.
 It is a good idea to keep the water trickling in and out of the bath to signify
 moving water, since you want to wash away any negativity, not stagnate in it.
 When your preparations are complete take the salt and, moving clockwise
 through the house, sprinkle a little in each corner of each room to remove all
 traces of the negative.
 Make the sign of the rune Dagaz (see page 167) at the windows and doors
 of your home, starting at the top left and using your most powerful hand.
 Each time you do this, repeat words such as:
 Protect my home and keep it safe.
 Use your own words if you wish so that they have more meaning.
 Finally at a point closest to the centre of your home, light the incense and let it
 waft throughout all the rooms to give a final cleansing and raise the vibration.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 187
PROTECTION
 With this technique you have raised the vibration in your home,
 have protected it and given yourself the opportunity to become
 slightly more aware of how precious your safe space really is. You
 will also have come to terms with fear.
 New Moon protection
 This ritual, which signifies letting go the hurts of the past in a
 way that allows you to move forward with fresh energy into
 the future, can be performed at the time of the New Moon. By
 carrying it out every New Moon you are gradually able to cleanse
 yourself of the detritus of the past, often as far back as childhood.
 You will need
 • CEDAR OR SAGE SMUDGING STICK (or Cleansing Incense)
 • WHITE CANDLE
 • ATHAME OR RITUAL KNIFE
 • BELL
 • CAKES AND WINE OR JUICE
 Method
 Cast your circle using the smudge stick or incense to ‘sweep’ the space as you
 move around the circle clockwise.
 Think of your space as being dome-shaped over your head and cleanse that
 space too.
 Ring the bell with your arms in the Goddess position (in a V above your
 head, you should be standing with your feet apart).
 Say:
 Great Goddess,
 Queen of the Underworld,
 Protector of all believers in you,
 It is my will on this night of the new moon
 To overcome my shadows and bring about change.
 I invite you to this my circle to assist and protect me in my rite.
 Hold your athame or knife with your hands in acknowledgement of the God
 (crossed over your chest, feet together).
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 188
PROTECTION
 Say:
 Great God,
 Lord of the Upper realms,
 Friend of all who work with you,
 It is my will on this night of the new moon
 To overcome my shadows to bring about change.
 I invite you to my circle to assist me and protect me in my rite.
 Light the candle and say:
 Behind me the darkness, in front of me the light
 As the wheel turns, I know that every end is a beginning.
 I see birth, death and regeneration.
 Spend time in quiet thought. If you can remember a time  when times have
 not been good for you, concentrate on that.
 While the candle begins to burn properly remember what that time felt like.
 Concentrate on the candle flame and allow yourself to feel its positivity.
 Pick up the candle and hold it high above your head.
 Feel the energy of the light shower down around you, the negativity
 drain away.
 Now draw the power of the light into you and
 feel the energy in every pore.
 Pass the candle around you and visualize the
 energy building up. If you wish, say:
 Let the light cast out darkness.
 You might then wish to perform the
 protective pentagram on p170 to
 protect you from similar incidents in
 the future.
 Now ground yourself by partaking
 of the food and drink. Thank the
 God and Goddess for their
 presence.Withdraw the circle 
Cleansing yourself of the past
 leaves space in your life for new
 things to happen. Protecting
 yourself means you move forward
 with positivity.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 189
PROTECTION
 Protecting your vehicle
 If you are a passenger, the first method given below is a simple
 unobtrusive way to protect you and your driver. If you yourself
 are driving, the second enhanced method may give you more
 peace of mind.
 You will need
 • THE POWER OF VISUALIZATION
 Method
 Visualize a sphere or bubble of light
 around the vehicle and mentally seal
 it with the sign of the equal armed
 cross above the bonnet.
 ENHANCED TECHNIQUE
 You will need
 • FEW DROPS OF FRANKINCENSE OIL
 • STICK OF FRANKINCENSE OR OTHER PROTECTION INCENSE
 • IF DESIRED A SMALL CHARM SUCH AS A DOLPHIN OR EAGLE
 Method
 Before any long journey, put a few drops of frankincense in water and wipe
 over the wheel arches with a sponge dipped in this water.
 Burn the stick incense inside the vehicle and pass the charm through the smoke
 to bless it. 
Hang the charm in a prominent place or put it in the glove compartment.
 Finally protect the vehicle as in the simple technique.
 You can expect to feel happier and to feel safer through having
 carried out the protection spell, but this does not mean that you can
 afford to take risks with your driving and you should observe all
 other safety precautions as well.
 For some people travelling can be a real ordeal. These techniques can
 protect the traveller and give considerable peace of mind during
 what is after all a period of transition. When you arrive safely at
 your destination it is worthwhile perhaps making a small offering to
 the powers that be in thanks.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 190
PROTECTION
 Protection bottle
 The idea behind this protection bottle is that it is made very
 uncomfortable for negativity and evil to stay around. As you
 progress and become more aware you become very conscious
 of negativity, while at the same time needing protection from it.
 You will need
 • ROSEMARY
 • NEEDLES
 • PINS
 • RED WINE
 • GLASS JAR WITH METAL LID (a jam jar is ideal)
 • RED OR BLACK CANDLE
 Method
 Gather together rosemary, needles, pins and red wine.
 Fill the jar with the first three, saying while you work:
 Pins, needles, rosemary, wine;
 In this witches bottle of mine.
 Guard against harm and enmity;
 This is my will, so mote it be!
 You can visualise the protection growing around you by sensing a spiral
 beginning from you as its central point.
 When the jar is as full as you can get it, pour in the red wine.
 Then cap or cork the jar and drip wax from the candle to seal.
 Bury it at the farthest corner of your property or put it in an inconspicuous
 spot in your house.
 Walk away from the spot.
 The bottle destroys negativity and evil; the pins and needles impale
 evil, the wine drowns it, and the rosemary sends it away from your
 property. It works unobtrusively like a little powerhouse and no one
 need know that it is there.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 191
PROTECTION
 To travel safely
 Here you use more than one correspondence to achieve a safe
 journey. In this day and age you can use all sorts of
 representations to help with this, from protecting your
 luggage to making the journey pleasant to protecting your person.
 The spell is divided into separate parts, so you can select whichever
 parts are appropriate for you.
 TO PROTECT YOUR LUGGAGE
 You will need
 • A SPRIG OF ROSEMARY
 • A PURPLE RIBBON
 Method
 Place the rosemary inside your case.
 Trace the sign of the pentagram over each lock.
 Weave the ribbon securely round the handle.
 Say three times:
 Protected is this case of mine
 Return now safely in good time.
 Practically, you should recognize your luggage anywhere, and if you
 do have to lose sight of it, for instance when flying, it has been made
 safe, and will come back to you quickly. Thieves are unlikely to think
 that it is worth stealing and it is not likely to get lost.
 PROTECTING YOURSELF PRIOR TO THE JOURNEY
 You will need
 • FOUR TEALIGHTS
 • FEW DROPS OF PROTECTIVE OIL SUCH AS SANDALWOOD OR VETIVERT
 Method
 Take a leisurely bath placing the tealights securely at each of the four corners
 of the bath.
 Add the essential oil to the bathwater.
 Visualize all your cares being washed away and at some point begin
 concentrating on the journey to come.
 Do this without anxiety just savouring the enjoyment of the journey.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 192
PROTECTION
 To this end you might light a yellow candle for communication and ask that
 you be open to opportunities to enjoy new experiences, get to know new
 people and understand the world in which you live.
 You can blow the tealights out when you have finished your bath and relight
 them when you return home as a thank-you for a safe journey.
 Now prepare a charm bag with
 • 1 PART BASIL
 • 1 PART FENNEL
 • 1 PART ROSEMARY
 • 1 PART MUSTARD SEED
 • 1 PINCH OF SEA SALT
 • 1 CLEAR QUARTZ CRYSTAL
 • ONE COIN OR BEAN FOR LUCK
 • 1 SQUARE OF INDIGO CLOTH
 • ONE WHITE CORD
 • IF LIKED, ADD A REPRESENTATION OF 
A WHEEL AND/OR A PIECE OF PAPER
 WITH THE NAME OF YOUR DESTINATION
 Spread the cloth so that you can mix the
 herbs quickly
 Hold your hands over the herbs and ask for
 a blessing from Njord the Norse god of
 travel or Epona the Horse goddess who
 accompanied the soul on its last journey.
 Gather up the herbs and the representative
 objects in the cloth and tie it into a bag
 making sure it is bound securely with the
 white cord.
 Keep the bag secure about your person.
 You should find that your journey is
 accomplished without too much
 trouble and that people are eager to
 assist you when you need help. You
 may well find that you are observing
 more than is usual or are being asked
 to participate in experiences which
 might otherwise pass you by.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 193
PROTECTION
 To make bad luck go away
 This spell can be adapted to use any of the Elements you choose
 to help the energy to work. Remember that Fire consumes, Air
 dissipates, Water washes away and Earth eliminates. You
 might do this spell at the New Moon to signify new beginnings or on
 a Saturday to change blockages into valuable experiences from which
 you can learn.
 You will need
 • SQUARE PIECE OF PAPER AT LEAST 3 INCHES BY 3
 • A BLACK MARKER OR MAGICAL BLACK INK AND PEN
 • YOUR CAULDRON OR A FIR- PROOF DISH IF USING FIRE
 • MATERIAL TO START YOUR FIRE (such as pine chippings)
 Method
 At night time light a small fire in your cauldron or dish.
 If not using fire then decide where and how you wish to dispose of the paper.
 Write on your paper the words:
 BAD LUCK
 Think hard about when circumstances have not gone well for you and write
 them all down.
 Then draw a big X across the paper with the black marker.
 Put the paper into the fire and say three times:
 Fire, fire brightly burning
 Let me see my luck now turning
 Change all that’s bad now into good
 My life to be then all that it could.
 Sit for a few minutes, concentrate on the bad luck being gone and the good
 luck coming your way.
 Extinguish the fire and dispose of the ashes appropriately.
 You can use any of the methods shown below to dispose of the ashes. Just
 substitute the ashes for the paper.
 If you decide to use the element of Earth then tear the paper into small pieces.
 knowing that the bad luck can no longer trouble you and make a similar
 incantation such as:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 194
PROTECTION
 Earth dark, cool and strong
 I ask you now to right this wrong
 All bad luck eliminate
 In joy let me participate.
 Bury the paper, walk away and don’t look back.
 If using the element of Water, find a rushing stream or fast flowing water 
at a pinch a flushing toilet can be used.
 Again tear the paper into small pieces.
 As you dispose of the pieces say:
 Water, water, rushing pure
 Take away bad luck for sure
 Charge my senses as you flow
 These negatives I will outgrow.
 Take time to think about how full your life can be without the bad luck
 You no longer need to keep thinking ‘Poor me’.
 If using the element of Air, either get up to a place as high as you can - the
 top of a tall building perhaps or walk to a crossroads.
 Tear the paper up into pieces.
 Throw or blow the pieces to the four winds.
 Say:
 Winds of change, set me free
 Take bad luck away from me
 Dispel its power within the air
 I beg you now grant me my prayer.
 Take a deep breath and this time as you breathe in be conscious of the fresh
 energy you are taking in.
 Any of the parts of this technique is enough to dispel the bad luck so
 a combination of them will be more than enough to change your
 life. You do however have a responsibility after this to understand
 yourself and how you draw negative influences towards you. 
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 195
PROTECTION
 Breaking the hold someone 
has over you
 This spell owes a lot to visualisation and the use of colour and in
 many ways is a learning experience in trusting your own
 abilities. It can be used in emotional situations, where you feel
 someone is taking advantage of you, or when you are bound to
 someone by perhaps a false sense of duty. This technique can be done
 in more than one sitting, particularly if you do not want any
 changes to be too dramatic.
 You will need
 • A STRONG VISUAL IMAGE OF THE LINK BETWEEN YOU AND THE OTHER
 PERSON
 • A CLEANSING INCENSE(such as Frankincense, Copal or Rosemary)
 Method
 Your image must be one that you feel you can relate to fully. Perhaps the
 easiest to see is in the form of a rope joining the two of you together.
 If you are good at seeing colour then the best to use is something similar to
 iridescent mother of pearl, because that contains all colours.
 You might see the image as a rigid bar, which would suggest that there is an
 inflexibility in the relationship between you which may require you to deal
 with the expectations of others.
 The incense is used to create an environment which is free from other
 influences; this is just between you and your perception of the link you have
 with the other person.
 Light your incense and sit quietly, considering carefully the link between you.
 Become aware of the flow of energy between you and gently withdraw your
 own energy, seeing it returning to you and being used for your own purposes
 rather than the other person’s.
 (This may be enough to bring about a change in your relationship which has a
 satisfactory outcome for you.)
 Next think carefully about how the other person makes calls on your time and
 energy - whether these are physical, emotional or spiritual.
 Resolve that you will either not allow this to happen or will be more careful
 and sparing in your responses.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 196
PROTECTION
 You might develop a symbol for yourself which you can use when you feel
 you are being ‘sucked in’.
 Preferably use one which amuses you, since laughter is a potent tool. You
 could use the image of a knot being tied, a cork or a stopcock.
 If you decide that you no longer wish to be associated with the person, use a
 technique which signifies breaking the link. It will depend upon your own
 personality and that of the other person as to how you do this.
 Visualizing the link simply being cut may bring about a more powerful ending
 with tears and recriminations, whereas a gentle teasing out of the link may be
 slower but less painful.
 It is here that you must trust your own judgement with the thought that it
 must be done for the Greater Good. If therefore you feel that at least some
 links must be left in place you can do this, for instance if you would wish to
 know when the other person is in trouble.
 Finally see yourself walking away from the person, free of any bonds between
 you.
 Always ensure that you leave them with a blessing for their continuing health,
 wealth and happiness.
 Now you will only become involved with them at your own wish.
 You can see from the above that at all points you have a choice for
 your course of action. This is because each stage must be considered
 very carefully, and not done in anger. You must remain as
 dispassionate as you can and always remain true to your own
 principles.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 197
PROTECTION
 Pet protection spell bottle
 Pets can be particularly sensitive to atmosphere so it is wise, if
 you do a lot of spell work which deals with negativity, to
 protect them against being inadvertently contaminated. The
 herbs and candle work do this very efficiently.
 You will need
 • SMALL JAROFSOIL
 • SMALL JAR OFSALT
 • WHITE TAPER CANDLE
 • YOUR BURIN
 • WINE BOTTLE
 • BAY LEAF
 • TABLESPOON OF DILL SEEDS
 • TABLESPOON OF FENNEL SEEDS
 • CARNELIAN STONE
 Method
 Put half the soil into the bottle.
 Add half the salt on top of that (to make layers).
 Next add the bay leaf and the dill and fennel seeds.
 Put the rest of the salt on top of this and the rest of the soil on top of the salt.
 Drop the carnelian stone on top of everything.
 Use the stick pin to carve the word:
 Protect [pets name] 
on the taper candle.
 Fit the candle into the top of the bottle. If it is too big, wedge it in or warm
 the bottom slightly until it stays securely by itself.
 Burn the candle when convenient. You don’t have to burn it all down at
 once, but eventually the candle will burn itself out.
 When the candle will not stay lit any longer but forms a plug for the top of the
 bottle, put the spell bottle near the place your pet spends most of his or her time.
 If you are fearful that your pet may be stolen, add a sprig of
 rosemary to the herbs in the bottle. You can expect to become very
 aware of your pet’s wellbeing in the light of this spell. Conditions
 you have not previously noticed may become apparent.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 198
PROTECTION
 Bast spell
 In Egypt cats were under the protection of the Cat Goddess Bast,
 hence they were once seen as witches’ familiars. This spell and its
 invocation link you with that goddess and seek her protection for
 you and your pet. Worn in the form of an amulet, they seek the
 protection of the Lunar Goddess in her many forms. These are often
 worn as small charms on bracelets. 
You will need
 • LUNAR INCENSE (equal measures of juniper, orris root and camphor)
 • 2 WHITE CANDLES
 • AN IMAGE OF A CAT (perhaps a charm, figurine or brooch)
 • IF YOU CAN FIND ONE, AN IMAGE OF BAST
 Method
 Light your incense and your candles.
 When ready invoke the power of the goddess:
 Goddess Bast Goddess Bast
 Mother of Mahes from centuries past
 Feline keeper of the Royal flame
 Hear me now, as I call your name
 Wise bestower of feminine scents and charm
 Let me and mine never come to harm.
 Now offer the amulet to her. 
Pass it through the smoke of the incense and through the flame of the candles.
 Hold it up and say:
 With this token that I carry
 Of your wisdom and your knowledge
 Never doubt I will acknowledge
 Those who take this path beside me 
As we safeguard your sacred memory.
 Wear your amulet to remind you of loyalty to Bast and all she represents.
 Often when you have made a dedication to Bast, you become far
 more aware of cats and their habits. Frequently you find you have
 been given a gift of some sort, which acknowledges the link. This
 might be something you need or an opportunity to do something
 you have always wanted to do.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 199
PROTECTION
 Moon protection for the amulets
 This technique can be used to protect an object that you use as
 an amulet – a crystal perhaps or one of the amulets listed
 below. Obviously you are also taking in the power from the
 Moon as well. This is best done at the time of the Full Moon.
 You will need
 • YOUR CHOSEN AMULET
 • A GLASS OF SPRING WATER
 Method
 Place a crystal or amulet that you regularly carry in the cup of spring water a
 day before the Full Moon.
 The following day, on the evening of the Full Moon, stir the water three
 times with the fingers of your right hand in a clockwise motion.
 Then take the cup in your hands and swirl the water in the cup around,
 moving the cup in a clockwise, circular, stirring motion three times.
 Then repeat these words aloud:
 Oh Light of the Moon
 Wrap me
 Protect me
 Keep me from harm.
 Remove your amulet from the cup.
 Raise the cup towards the sky, acknowledging the Moon.
 Lower the cup, bring it to your lips and drink the water.
 Carry the amulet with you till the next Full Moon in
 order to ensure full protection.
 Repeat this process every month to benefit from the
 amulet’s influence.
 When an object has been blessed by the Moon, you
 enter under her protection. You symbolically take in her power by
 drinking the water. Amulets are seemingly inanimate objects which
 have been given power by the incantation.
 Below are a few which you might like to use:
 ANCHOR Represents stability, hope and salvation. It favours all matters to
 do with the sea and would protect against physical harm.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 200
PROTECTION
 ANKH (CRUX ANSATA) the Egyptian Cross of Life, is the key to the
 hidden mysteries. It brings about health and abundance and, through
 knowledge, gives power to the wearer.
 ARROWHEAD An arrowhead gives protection against enemies, bad luck,
 hexes, jealousy, and all negative forces. Placed over your front door (or under
 the mat) it prevents burglars.
 BELLS symbolize angelic forces, the four Elements and the cycles of the
 seasons. They are used to frighten off the Devil and evil spirits.
 CASTLES are a strongly protective image. They suggest the doorway to
 knowledge and power.
 COWRIE SHELL This represents prosperity and when worn by a woman
 gives her protection. In Polynesian societies it was considered a valid form of
 exchange token.
 FAN This is a lunar symbol depicting life unfolding. In Eastern tradition the
 fan represents protection and safety.
 HAMMER This representation of the formative, masculine principle is
 particularly powerful in techniques of manifestation (having something
 happen). It signifies victory over one’s enemies or obstacles and is especially
 beneficial for business or career ambitions.
 HORSESHOE The horseshoe is a well-known good luck symbol in many
 parts of the world. It is often taken to represent the Moon in her crescent form.
 KEYS symbolize health, wealth and love. As they both open and close, they
 also signify birth and death, beginnings and endings as well as new
 opportunities and beginnings.
 KNOT The Celtic Knot is a protective device when worn as an amulet. The
 Lover’s Knot represents perfect union.
 OYSTER SHELLS today tend to represent the Moon, because of the
 association with mother-of-pearl and its luminescence. It was supposed to
 protect the wearer from harm.
 PINE CONE The pine cone with its many seeds signifies abundance, health,
 wealth and power. Worn as an amulet, or kept within the home, it is said that
 you will never lack the good things of life.
 SEASHELLS are a symbol of femininity, particularly the Mother Goddesses.
 Signifying birth and regeneration, they represent prosperity and marital bliss.
 SUN represents wealth, health, happiness and fame. It also protects against
 others causing you problems.
 TORCH signifies the spark of life and also illumination and truth.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 201
PROTECTION
 To break a curse
 There are various ways to break a curse or a malicious spell.
 Here you use an object to represent the curse, incense to clear
 it and an incantation to deflect it. You then allow natural
 forces to do their work.
 You will need
 • A SACHET CONTAINING EQUAL PARTS OF:
 • St. John’s Wort
 • Lavender
 • Rose
 • Bay
 • Verbena
 • CLEANSING INCENSE SUCH AS BENZOIN OR DRAGONS BLOOD
 • BLACK CANDLE (to represent the negativity)
 • WHITE CANDLE (for positivity)
 • LEMON
 • BOWL OF WATER
 • BOWL OF SALT
 • YOUR ATHAME
 • GLASS OR CHINA PLATE
 Method
 Light the incense and candles (black on left,
 white on right).
 Pass the sachet through the incense smoke
 and put it on one side.
 Hold the lemon in both hands and allow the
 lemon to signify the negativity. Think of all
 the negative things that have happened and
 push them into the lemon, particularly if you
 suspect they are associated with the curse.
 Dip your knife or athame in the water then
 slice the lemon into three pieces.
 Touch each piece of lemon with the tip of
 the athame.
 As you do this, repeat the following:
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 202
PROTECTION
 Three times three
 Now set me free
 Visualize the lemon drawing the negativity away from you and into itself.
 As you do this, repeat:
 As sour as this lemon be
 Charged and cut in pieces three
 With salt and water I am free
 Uncross me now, I will it be.
 Lemon sour, lemon sour
 Charged now with power
 Let this lemon do its task
 It’s cleansing power I do ask
 As this lemon dries in air.
 Free me from my dark despair.
 Uncross! Uncross! I break this curse
 But let not my simple spell reverse
 I wish no ill, nor wish him pain
 I wish only to be free again.
 Take each lemon slice and dip it in the salt, making sure it is well coated.
 Set the slices back on the altar and say:
 As it is my will, so mote it be.
 Leave the lemon pieces on the altar where they can dry.
 Once dry the spell is complete and the lemon can be thrown away or buried.
 If however the fruit rots instead, you must repeat the spell.
 While waiting for the fruit to dry, keep the sachet with you at all
 times. It will help to protect you from the effects of the spells and
 turn away any negativity sent in your direction.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 203
PROTECTION
 To break a spell you’ve cast
 There are times when we have cast a spell that we should not
 have done, either because we have not thought it through or
 because we have reacted in anger and later realize that it was
 inappropriate. Then we are honour bound to undo it. This spell is
 representational and the best time to do this is after midnight at the
 time of the Waning Moon.
 You will need
 • PURIFYING INCENSE (such as Benzoin or Rosemary)
 • ANGELICA OR ROSEMARY HERBS
 • AS MANY WHITE CANDLES AS YOU FEEL IS APPROPRIATE 
• ROSEMARY OIL
 • A BEAD FROM A NECKLACE YOU OWN (clear if possible)
 • YOU COULD USE A MUCH LOVED PIECE OF JEWELLERY OR CRYSTAL IF
 YOU DON’T OWN A NECKLACE
 • SMALL SQUARE OF BLACK CLOTH
 • CORD OR THREAD
 Method
 Anoint your candles with the rosemary oil, working from bottom to top, since
 you are sending the spell away.
 Light the incense and let it burn for a few moments to raise the atmosphere.
 Light your candles and as you do so think very carefully as to why you cast
 the first spell, what it has caused and why you wish it removed.
 Then say:
 Great Mother, I ask a favour of you
 On [date] I cast a spell to [insert type of spell]
 I now ask for it to be removed and rendered harmless
 May it have no further power or gain.
 Place the bead or jewelry and the herbs on the black cloth and say:
 Here I make sacrifice to you knowing that I must relinquish this
 object as token of my good intentions. 
Knot the cord around the cloth, saying as you do:
 I transfer the power of the spell to this object
 And enclose it within its own darkness
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 204
PROTECTION
 So be it.
 Use three knots for finality.
 Seal the knots by dripping wax on them.
 Then take the bag to a source of running water or a clear space and throw it
 away as far from you as you can
 If your first spell was done in anger or fear, then say:
 Begone anger, begone fear
 It is done.
 You should find that you have got rid of any negativity you may
 have felt. Insofar as you have given up something which belongs to
 you, you have cleared yourself of the law of cause and effect and of
 any spiritual difficulty as a result of your initial action.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 205
Conclusion
 So let it be
 There are so many spells available across many disciplines that it
 is almost impossible to do justice to them all. Spellmaking is
 such an individual craft, according to one’s own beliefs, that
 nobody can or indeed should be so bold as to try to tell others what
 to do, unless there is an accepted pupil/teacher relationship in place.
 It is only possible to give guidelines. For this reason, if a spell doesn’t
 work for you in the way that it has been given in this book, do try it
 again on another occasion and use your intuition to decide what
 might be changed or adjusted to suit your own personality.
 As has already been stated, the actions taken during the process of
 spellmaking become so individual that only you yourself know what you
 actually did to make a particular technique work. For this reason, spell-making
 is one of the few occupations that is truly creative in its output. You are never
 quite sure what the end result is going to be, you do actually have the ability
 to make things happen and it is said that ‘A handful of skill is better than a
 bagful of gold’. Someone else will do exactly the same thing and probably get
 a totally different result.
 Finally, this book is really no more than a kindergarten primer. It contains a
 number of spells garnered from many sources, some very different to our own
 preferred way of working, and we are therefore very grateful to those people
 who have made their information available. We would hope that it will pique
 your curiosity so that you take your own studies further. As you search for
 knowledge both esoteric and otherwise bear in mind that there are some
 constraints on the use of spells. You should never use them deliberately to ill
wish someone, it will only rebound on you at some stage of your existence;
 you yourself take full responsibility for what you do, so think very carefully
 and be aware of what you do.
 With all that in mind we leave you with an old Irish blessing:
 May love and laughter light your days,
 and warm your heart and home.
 May good and faithful friends be yours,
 wherever you may roam.
 May peace and plenty bless your world
 with joy that long endures.
 May all life’s passing seasons
 bring the best to you and yours!
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 206
207
 A
 admirer,unwanted  108
 air  13
 alphabets  47
 altar  33-6
 altar objects  16
 altar objects,consecration
 35-6
 alter dedication  35
 amulets  16,200-1
 archangels,petitioning  130
 argument  105
 astrological correspondences
 38-9
 athame  16
 attraction,strengthening  104
 B
 baby,newborn  83-4
 bad luck  194-5
 Bast  199
 bathing,ritual  30-1
 baths salts  31-2
 bay leaves  151
 besom  16
 bidding spells  10-11
 Black Cohosh  123
 blessings  11
 body
 change  67
 healing  54-5,63-4
 negative energies  177
 boline  16-17
 Book of Shadows  48-9
 braiding  88
 burine  17
 business
 boardroom  163
 boss’s attitude  159
 deals  157
 dream job  150-1
 good fortune  149
 intruders  186
 luck  167-8
 risk taking  161
 C
 candle magic  15
 candles
 basics  17
 choice  19
 colours  19-20
 pennies  139
 types  18-19
 career obstacles  158-9
 casting a circle  36-7
 cats  199
 cauldron  17
 ceremonial working objects
 34-5
 Ceridwen  165-6
 Cernunnos  71-2
 chalice  17
 chanting  48
 charms  16
 child within  80-1
 children
 new baby  83-4
 protecting  185
 safety  184-5
 chocolate  92
 circle,casting a  36-7
 clothing  32
 colour in magic  45-6
 colour magic  14
 communication  156
 concentration  153
 confidence enhancing  86
 confidence in social situations
 93
 crystals  21-2
 crystals magic  15
 curse breaking  202-3
 D
 days of the week,magical
 41-2
 days,planetary  42-3
 debts  133-4
 decision making  154-5
 depression  62-3
 dice  136-7
 dreams
 bad  76
 influencing  70-1
 job  150-1
 wanted  77-8
 Dryads  72-3
 E
 earth  12-13
 elemental magic  14
 elements  12-14
 elements,help from  176-7
 emotions
 negative  58-9
 purifying  68-9
 energy,balancing  84-5
 evil intent  75
 ex-lover  100
 F
 Fast Luck Oil  122-3
 fidelity  106
 fire  13
 fire protection  178-9
 footwash  123
 formulae record sheet  49-50
 friendship  95-6
 Futhark alphabet  47
 G
 gambling  124,136-7
 gemstones  21-2
 glamour  57
 gossip  166
 Great Mother  164
 Greek alphabet  47
 grimoire  7,48-9
 H
 healing
 charms  11
 others  65
 spells  11
 the body  54-5,63-4
 health
 depression  62-3
 good  55,63-4
 radiant  81-2
 sickness  69
 warts  79
 heart’s desire  99
 heart,winning  107
 Hebrew alphabet  47
 Hecate  168-9
 help from elements  176-7
 herbal charm  111
 herbal magic  15
 herbs
 important  23-5
 introduction  22
 love  97
 use  23-5
 hexes  11,180
 hold held over one,breaking
 196-7
 home
 blessing  174
 household gods  181-3
 intruders  186
 protecting  183,187-8
 ring of protection  183
 Horned God  71-2
 hours,planetary  42-4
 I
 incantation  12
 incense  25-7
 ingredients  16-28
 inspiration  165-6
 invocations  11-12
 Irish blessing  206
 J
 jewellery  32
 justice,unfair treatment  146
 K
 Kabbalah  28,46
 knot magic  15
 Index
 References in italicsare to spells in the Spells Compendium section of the book
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
knot spell  160-1
 L
 legal success  155
 ‘little works’  75
 love
 attracting  111
 bringing  90-1
 broken heart  117-18
 charms  111, 112
 creating opportunities  94
 heart’s desire  99
 new  97
 obtaining  113-4
 returned  102
 rift, healing  103
 token  110
 triangle  116
 winning  107
 love herbs  97
 love spells  10
 lovers
 aphrodisiac  92
 bringing  98
 chocolate and strawberry
 delight  92
 clearing the air between  91
 fidelity  106
 focussing interest  89
 forgetting old  100
 new  109
 rekindling interest  115
 luck, bad  194-5
 M
 magical trees  140-3
 magical writing  66
 misfortune, removal  131
 mnemonic, CARDS  77-8
 money
 attracting  120, 139, 144
 bottle  125
 burning  128-9
 charm  126
 doubling  127
 footwash  123
 gambling  124, 136-7
 silver  132
 wealthy partner  135
 moon correspondences  40-1
 moon, new  188-9
 moon power  59
 moon wishes  170-1
 N
 negativity, reversing  180
 New Moon  188-9
 O
 Ogham Staves
 Coll  161
 Edhadh  74-5
 Ur  95-6
 oils  27-8, 122-3
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
 opportunity creation  162
 Ops  162
 oracle, consulting  148-9
 P
 paper  17
 pen and ink  17
 pentacle  17
 pentagram  133-4, 170
 personal power spells  12
 personal space  56
 pestle and mortar  17-18
 pet protection bottle  198
 petitioning the archangels  130
 poppets  32-3
 poverty  121
 protection bottles  191, 198
 public speaking  156
 R
 relationships
 admirer, unwanted  108
 argument  105
 attraction, strengthening  104
 beckoning a person  96
 broken heart  117-18
 clarifying  88-9
 developing  101, 114
 rift, healing  103
 wealthy partner  135
 representational magic  15
 ribbon spell  164
 risk taking  161
 ritual bathing  30-1
 rituals, construction  48-9
 road rage  175
 Royal Arch cipher  47
 rune symbols
 alphabet  47
 Aurochs  163
 Dagaz  167
 Ehwaz  157
 Elhaz  175
 Fehu  139, 167
 Kenaz  62
 Teiwaz  168
 S
 sacred space  33-6
 scrying tools  18
 shadows, overcoming  60-1
 shells  74-5
 silver  132
 social situations, confidence
 93
 spell breaking  204-5
 spell working
 astrological 
correspondences  38-9
 construction of spells  48-9
 correspondences  37-41
 creative  206
 magical days of the week
 41-2
 moon correspondences
 40-1
 planetary days  42-3
 planetary hours  42-4
 preparation  30
 record sheet  49-50
 times  37
 types of spells  14-16
 spells grouped by broad
 subjects
 business  145-72
 career  145-72
 decision making  145-72
 finance  119-44
 healing  53-86
 health  53-86
 love  87-118
 luck  119-44
 money  119-44
 protection  173-205
 relationships  87-118
 resources  119-44
 wealth  119-44
 spirit  14
 staff  18
 stones  21-2
 strawberry  92
 string  138
 study  153
 symbolic magic  15-16
 T
 talent, latent  152
 talismans  16
 Themis  148-9
 token of love  110
 tools  16-28
 tools, consecrating  37
 travelling safely  192-3
 tree correspondences  140
 trees, magical  140-3
 triangle of love  116
 truth  147
 V
 vehicle protection  190
 W
 wand  18
 wants  137, 138
 warts  79
 water  13-14
 Wintergreen  122-3
 wishes, activating  171-2
 wishing afloat  140-3
 words, power of  10, 46-8
 208
Used for thousands of years by people in all cultures to
 enable them to change their lives for the better,spell
 working still has much to offer,as this beautifully 
presented book reveals.Practical and comprehensive,
 The Great Book of Spellsexplains in clear,concise
 language all aspects of this ancient craft.
 The extensive Spells Compendium is divided into 
easy-to-use sections and covers areas such 
as health,love and relationships,and money.
 Also included is guidance on:
 The principles of spell making – invocations,chants,
 blessings and incantations
 Different types of spell working – from symbolic and 
elemental to talismans,amulets and charms
 Ingredients and tools – candles,crystals,herbs 
and plant resins,incense
 Preparation – dedicating and setting up a special place,
 consecrating tools and objects,casting circles
 Suitable for beginners as well as the more experienced
 practitioner,The Great Book of Spellshas the 
potential to help you improve every area of your life.
       46653744-7484-41E1-8BF9-6AF98F9731AF
