THE OCCULT WORLD 
by 
A.P.Sinnett 
Fifth American, from the Fourth English Edition with the Author's 
Corrections and a New Preface 
 Published in 1888 
Dedication 
To one whose comprehension of Nature and Humanity  
ranges so far beyond the science and philosophy  
of Europe, that only the broadest-minded representatives  
of either will be able to realise the existence of such  
powers in Man as those he constantly exercises,-to  
THE MAHATMA KOOT HOOMI 
whose gracious friendship has given the present writer  
his title to claim the attention of the European world,  
this little volume, with permission sought and obtained,  
is affectionately dedicated.  
A. P. SINNETT 
CONTENTS 
PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION 
INTRODUCTION 
OCCULTISM AND ITS ADEPTS 
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 
FIRST OCCULT EXPERIENCES 
TEACHINGS OF OCCULT PHILOSOPHY 
LATER OCCULT PHENOMENA 
APPENDIX  
PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION 
I VENTURE to think that this volume has acquired an importance that did 
not attach to it at first, now that subsequent experience has enabled me to 
follow it up with a more elaborate philosophical treatise. In the later work I 
have endeavored to set forth the general outlines of that knowledge 
concerning the higher mysteries of Nature which the following pages describe 
as possessed by the Indian " Mahatmas," or Adept Brothers. To that later 
work the reader whose attention may be arrested by the story told here must 
of course be referred ; but meanwhile, the present introduction to the subject 
may be recommended to public notice now in a more confident tone than that 
which I was justified in taking up when it was first put forward. At that time 
the experiences I felt impelled to relate embodied no absolute promise of the 
systematic teaching accorded to me afterwards. Certainly those experiences 
in themselves appeared to me to claim telling. They seemed by far too 
remarkable to be left buried unfruitfully in the consciousness of the few 
persons concerned with them. It was true they elucidated no great principles 
of science; they merely suggested that for some of the abnormal phenomena 
which have arrested public attention during the last few years a more 
scientific explanation than those usually assigned might be possible. They 
afforded, if not absolute proof, at least an overwhelming assumption, that 
living men might actually develop faculties qualified to operate freely on that 
superior plane of Nature beyond the reach of the physical senses which, had 
been generally supposed accessible only to the spirits of the dead. But all was 
still shadowy and ill-defined. The story I had to tell revealed a magnificent 
possibility rather than a definite prospect. It would still, perhaps, have been 
an interesting story, even if the curtain had gone down upon the situation as 
I left it when these pages were first put together, but it would have been 
nothing then, compared to what it has since become.  
Now the position in which the subject stands has altogether changed. The 
tentative communications addressed to me by my Mahatma correspondent in 
the first instance have paved the way for a long series of still more instructive 
and valuable letters. Assisted in other ways as well, my comprehension of 
occult philosophy advanced so far during the two years following the first 
appearance of this volume, that I was enabled to publish a more important 
statement, defining the outlines of that teaching, and exhibiting in a 
connected and intelligible shape the great esoteric theory of human evolution 
on this earth ( and of the cosmogony on which it depends) with which the 
Adepts deal. The opening which presented itself to me in 1880 proved, in fact, 
no passing adventure, but the beginning of a new intellectual life. Attracted 
to it as I was at the time, I was certainly far then from divining the 
magnitude of the results destined to flow from it. But now that the 
proportions of the revelation I have thus been happily instrumental in 
procuring for the service of my readers have become apparent, I revert to the 
introductory episode of the undertaking with the certain assurance that I 
shall be engaging no one who will spare me his attention in any waste of 
time.  
I am bold enough to say this because the Mahatmas, or great philosophical 
teachers of Asia, into some relations with whom I was enabled to come under 
the circumstances described in the following narrative, have now surrendered 
to the outer world so much of the spiritual science they have hitherto 
jealously guarded, that the whole framework of their stupendous doctrine has 
grown intelligible. Fragments of esoteric truth- of that science of 
superphysical nature which the Adepts explore- have been thrown out into 
the world at large from time to time before now, but in puzzling and 
unattractive disguises. The esoteric doctrine is no new system of belief, but, 
on the contrary, can be discerned now as lurking in a good deal of old 
Kabalistic and Oriental literature, that very few ordinary readers could have 
made sense of without the help of the keys now put in their hands. But now 
at last the subject has emerged into the clear daylight of modern thinking, 
and the central principle of the sublime esoteric doctrine stands plainly 
revealed as one which harmonizes in absolute perfection with the preparatory 
conceptions of Nature that have been derived by physical science from the 
observation and reflection of the current century. Biology is the latest, and, in 
some respects, the greatest of the physical sciences ; and as the corollary, the 
complement, the crown of the science of Life, we are now furnished, by the 
teaching that has come to us from the East, with the science of spiritual 
evolution. Without this it may now be seen by those who appreciate the 
necessity of this doctrine, -the manifest, inherent self-evidence of it when it is 
once fairly understood, -without it, the doctrine of physical evolution is a libel 
on Nature, a caricature of her grandest purposes. The great idea to which I 
am now referring exhibits the human soul as a continuous entity, subject to 
an individual evolution of vast duration, and developing on the spiritual 
plane of existence, as a result of its successive returns to Earth life. Mounting 
always upward, it has passed through the lower manifestations of the animal 
kingdom, and can never again revert to them; but as regards the future, it 
will not merely pass through a purposeless succession of human lives like 
those going on around us. It will advance and expand in its individual 
progress towards perfection, pari passu with that general improvement of 
physical types on Earth which is still going forward, though the short views 
of human nature afforded us by mere historic observation may not render 
this process of improvement as perceptible to uninitiated intelligence as it 
becomes to the psychic discernment of the Adept.  
To comprehend the way the work goes on, we have to contemplate the 
operations of Nature on other planes besides those cognizable to the physical 
senses. And it soon becomes apparent that the physical life of the Earth is 
only one process of the long series over which the evolution of humanity 
extends. But -and this is one of the most admirably scientific and ethically 
beautiful of the ideas brought out by occult study -the physical life of the 
Earth is shown to be no incoherent episode in the experiences of a human 
soul, no futile incident in the course of a spiritual evolution, the major portion 
of which is accomplished in higher spheres of being. It is inseparably blended 
along its whole course with the spiritual growth of the soul. The Earth is 
shown to be no cosmic railway carriage which we enter for the purpose of 
accomplishing a more or less laborious journey, and the discomforts of which 
we may carelessly forget when we are able to jump out of it on reaching our 
destination. It is the home of our race for a long time to come, if not for 
eternity, and it is our interest, as well as our duty, to embellish and improve 
and ennoble it. " In my Father's house," says the old symbolical text, " are 
many mansions," and in this planetary house of humanity there are many 
more states of existence than the physical state. Some of these states may be 
far more enjoyable, for that matter, than the physical state as this is at 
present; and the esoteric doctrine shows us that the duration of the higher 
spiritual states, when each individual Ego passes each time into these, is 
enormously more prolonged than its physical states, but both kinds of 
existence are equally necessary in the whole scheme of things.  
All these views, and the vast mass of explanatory detail which has since been 
furnished to the inquirers of the Theosophical Society, were still undeveloped 
for those of us who were pursuing the clue afforded by my experiences of 
1880, when the present book was written. But I refer to them here because I 
want very briefly to indicate the direction which our later inquiries took 
when, our attention having been arrested by the strange and startling 
phenomena here described, it dawned upon us by degrees that the 
intellectual instruction the Mahatmas could give us, if they would, would be 
enormously more interesting than even the exhibition of their abnormal 
powers. The same considerations I hope will follow in due order, in the case of 
readers whom this volume may have the good fortune to attract. It has been 
sometimes argued in my hearing that it would have been better if the authors 
of this great new movement of spiritual thought -new for us, though so old in 
one sense -which theosophy embodies had furnished us with the results of 
their philosophical thinking without impairing the pure dignity of that 
exalted scheme by mingling it in the first instance with sensational displays 
of thaumaturgic skill. I am not inclined myself to quarrel with the order in 
which events were actually unfolded, Miracles, it is quite true, are illogical 
guarantees for theological dogma; but the manifest possession of great 
faculties and powers in other planes of Nature than those on which ordinary 
conclusions concerning her processes are formed, does certainly afford a 
presumption that persons so endowed may gather observations on those 
higher planes which it is well worth our while to correlate with our own. 
Meanwhile I do not put forward the narrative of occult phenomena, of which 
this volume largely consists, as a statement which in itself constitutes a 
foundation for the very stupendous edifice of doctrines which later 
opportunities enabled me to construct. But I know that the experiences I 
record in this book were neither futile nor fruitless in their effects on my own 
development; and in anticipation of events that may contribute in no small 
degree, in a near future, to give a great impetus to theosophic speculation in 
America, I venture to recommend this book with special urgency to the 
American public, in the hope that a reflection on their minds of the influence 
produced on my own, by the incidents described, may serve to attract a good 
many fresh explorers into the paths of study and meditation, in which I 
believe myself to have gained such inestimable advantage. 
I have not found much to alter in the original text of this book, though I am 
glad to, take advantage of this opportunity to append some notes here and 
there, and amplify some passages. But important additions to its contents 
have been made from time to time, and now especially I am anxious to call 
the attention of American readers to the latest of these, which will be found 
in an appendix. It is possible that in America some persons, to whom the 
existence of theosophy as a new school of thought is not altogether strange, 
may have heard of it especially in connection with a correspondence which 
has attracted a good deal of attention in the spiritualistic press. The 
discussion to which I refer has borne reference to a manifest identity of 
language traced between a certain passage in one of my Mahatma teacher's 
letters and a similar passage in an address delivered a few years ago by an 
American lecturer. The explanation I am now enabled to give of the curious 
circumstances under which this state of things arose, constitutes in itself, I 
venture to think, not merely a complete refutation of some unfriendly 
theories which were started to account for it, but also affords a very 
interesting contribution to our acquaintanceship with the ways and faculties 
of the Mahatmas.  
INTRODUCTION 
THERE is a school of Philosophy still in existence of which modern culture 
has lost sight. Glimpses of it are discernible in the ancient philosophies with 
which all educated men are familiar, but these are hardly more intelligible 
than fragments of forgotten sculpture,-less so, for we comprehend the human 
form, and can give imaginary limbs to a torso; but we can give no imaginary 
meaning to the truth coming down to us from Plato or Pythagoras, pointing, 
for those who hold the clue to their significance, to the secret knowledge of 
the ancient world. Side lights, nevertheless, may enable us to decipher such 
language, and a very rich intellectual reward offers itself to persons who are 
willing to attempt the investigation.  
For, strange as the statement will appear at first sight, modern metaphysics, 
and to a large extent modern physical science, have been groping for 
centuries blindly after knowledge which occult philosophy has enjoyed in full 
measure all the while. Owing to a train of fortunate circumstances, I have 
come to know that this is the case; I have come into some contact with 
persons who are heirs of a greater knowledge concerning the mysteries of 
Nature and humanity than modern culture has yet evolved; and my present 
wish is to sketch the outlines of this knowledge, to record with exactitude the 
experimental proofs I have obtained that occult science invest its adepts with 
a control of natural forces superior to that enjoyed by physicists of the 
ordinary type, and the grounds there are for bestowing the most respectful 
consideration on the theories entertained by occult science concerning the 
constitution and destinies of the human soul. Of course people in the present 
day will be slow to believe that any knowledge worth considering can be 
found outside the bright focus of Western culture. Modern science has 
accomplished grand results by the open method of investigation, and is very 
impatient of the theory that persons who ever attained to real knowledge, 
either in sciences or metaphysics, could have been content to hide their light 
under a bushel. So the tendency has been to conceive that occult philosophers 
of old- Egyptian priests, Chaldean Magi, Essenes, Gnostics, theurgic Neo
Platonists, and the rest-who kept their knowledge secret, must have adopted 
that policy to conceal the fact that they knew very little. Mystery can only 
have been loved by charlatans who wished to mystify. The conclusion is 
pardonable from the modern point of view, but it has given rise to an 
impression in the popular mind that the ancient mystics have actually been 
turned inside out, and found to know very little. This impression is absolutely 
erroneous. Men of science in former ages worked in secret, and instead of 
publishing their discoveries, taught them in secret to carefully selected 
pupils. Their motives for adopting that policy are readily intelligible, even if 
the merits of the policy may seem still open to discussion. At all events, their 
teaching has not been forgotten; it has been transmitted by secret initiation 
to men of our own time, and while its methods and its practical achievements 
remain secrets in their hands, it is open to any patient and earnest student of 
the question to satisfy himself that these methods are of supreme efficacy, 
and these achievements far more admirable than any yet standing to the 
credit of modern science.  
For the secrecy in which these operations have been shrouded has never 
disguised their existence, and it is only in our own time that this has been 
forgotten. Formerly at great public ceremonies, the initiates displayed the 
powers with which their knowledge of natural laws invested them. We 
carelessly assume that the narratives of such displays describe performances 
of magic: we have decided that there is no such thing as magic, therefore the 
narratives must have been false, the persons whom they refer to, impostors. 
But supposing that magic, of old, was simply the science of magi, of learned 
men, there is no magic, in the modern sense, left in the matter. And 
supposing that such science- even in ancient times already the product of 
long ages of study- had gone in some directions further than our much 
younger modern science has yet reached, it is reasonable to conclude that 
some displays in connection with ancient mysteries may have been strictly 
scientific experiments, though they sound like displays of magic, and would 
look like displays of magic for us now if they could be repeated.  
On that hypothesis modem sagacity applying modem knowledge to the 
subject of ancient mysteries, may be merely modem folly evolving erroneous 
conclusions from modem ignorance.  
But there is no need to construct hypotheses in the matter. The facts are 
accessible if they are sought for in the right way, and the facts are these: The 
wisdom of the ancient world-science and religion commingled, physics and 
metaphysics combined- was a reality, and it still survives. It is that which 
will be spoken of in these pages as Occult Philosophy. It was already a 
complete system of knowledge that had been cultivated in secret, and handed 
down to initiates for ages, before its professors performed experiments in 
public to impress the popular mind in Egypt and Greece. Adepts of occultism 
in the present day are capable of performing similar experiments, and of 
exhibiting results that prove them immeasurably further advanced than 
ordinary modern science in a cornprehension of the forces of Nature. 
Furthermore, they inherit from their great predecessors a science which deals 
not merely with physics, but with the constitution and capacities of the 
human soul and spirit. Modern science has discovered the circulation of the 
blood; occult science understands the circulation of the life-principle. Modem 
physiology deals with the body only; occultism with the soul as well- not as 
the subject of vague, religious rhapsodies; but it is an actual entity, with 
properties that can be examined in combination with, or apart from, those of 
the body.  
It is chiefly in the East that occultism is still kept up in India and in adjacent 
countries. It is in India that I have encountered it; and this little volume is 
written to describe the experiences I have enjoyed, and to retail the 
knowledge I have acquired.  
II 
My narrative of events must be preceded by some further general 
explanations, or it would be unintelligible. The identity of occultism as 
practised in all ages, must be kept in view, to account for the magnitude of its 
organization, and for the astounding discovery that secluded Orientals may 
understand more about electricity than Faraday, more about physics than 
Tyndall. The culture of Europe has been developed by Europeans for 
themselves within the last few hundred years. The culture of occultists is the 
growth of vast periods long anterior to these, when civilization inhabited the 
East. And during a career which has carried occultism in the domain of 
physical science far beyond the point we have reached, physical science has 
merely been an object for occultism of secondary importance. Its main 
strength has been devoted to metaphysical inquiry, and to the latent 
psychological faculties in man, faculties which, in their development, enable 
the occultist to obtain actual experimental knowledge concerning the soul's 
condition of extra-corporeal existence. There is thus something more than a 
mere archaeological interest in the identification of the occult system with 
the doctrines of the initiated organisations in all ages of the world's history, 
and we are presented by this identification with the key to the philosophy of 
religious development. Occultism is not merely an isolated discovery showing 
humanity to be possessed of certain powers over Nature, which the narrower 
study of Nature from the merely materialistic standpoint has failed to 
develop; it is an illumination cast over all previous spiritual speculation 
worth anything, of a kind which knits together some apparently divergent 
systems. It is to spiritual philosophy much what Sanskrit was found to be to 
comparative philology ; it is a common stock of philosophical roots. Judaism, 
Christianity, Buddhism and the Egyptian theology are thus brought into one 
family of ideas. Occultism, as it is no now invention, is no specific sect, but 
the professors of no sect can afford to dispense with the sidelights it throws 
upon the conception of Nature and Man's destinies which they may have been 
induced by their own specific faith to form; occultism, in fact, must be 
recognised by anyone who will take the trouble to put before his mind clearly 
the problems with which it deals, as a study of the most sublime importance 
to every man who cares to live a life worthy of his human rank in creation, 
and who can realise the bearing on ethics of certain knowledge concerning his 
own survival after death. It is one thing to follow the lead of a hazy 
impression that a life beyond the grave, if there is one, may be somehow 
benefited by abstinence from wrongdoing on this side; it will clearly be 
another to realise if that can be shown to be the case, that the life beyond the 
grave must, with the certainty of a sum total built up of a series of plus and 
minus quantities, be the final expression of the use made of opportunities in 
this. 
I have said that the startling importance of occult knowledge turns on the 
manner in which it affords exact and experimental knowledge concerning 
spiritual things which under all other systems must remain the subject of 
speculation or blind religious faith. It may be further asserted that occultism 
shows that the harmony and smooth continuity of Nature observable in 
physics extend to those operations of Nature that are concerned with the 
phenomena of metaphysical existence.  
Before approaching an exposition of the conclusions concerning the nature of 
man that occult philosophy has reached, it may be worth while to meet an 
objection that may perhaps be raised by the reader on the threshold of the 
subject. How is it that conclusions of such great weight have been kept the 
secret property of a jealous body of initiates. Is it not a law of progress that 
truth asserts itself and courts the free air and light ? Is it reasonable to 
suppose that the greatest of all truths-the fundamental basis of truth 
concerning man and Nature- should be afraid to show itself? With what 
object could the ancient professors of, or proficients in, occult philosophy keep 
the priceless treasures of their researches to themselves ? 
Now, it is no business of mine to defend the extreme tenacity with which the 
proficients in occultism have hitherto not only shut out the world from the 
knowledge of their knowledge, but have almost left it in ignorance that such 
knowledge exists [ See Appendix A.]. It is enough here to point out that it 
would be foolish to shut our eyes to a revelation that may now be partially 
conceded, merely because we are piqued at the behaviour of those who have 
been in a position to make it before, but have not chosen to do so. Nor would 
it be wiser to say that the reticence of the occultists so far discredits anything 
we may now be told about their acquirements. When the sun is actually 
shining it is no use to say that its light is discredited by the behaviour of the 
barometer yesterday. I have to deal, in discussing the acquirements of 
occultism, with facts that have actually taken place, and nothing can 
discredit what is known to be true. No doubt it will be worth while later on to 
examine the motives which have rendered the occultists of all ages so 
profoundly reserved. And there may be more to say in justification of the 
course that has been pursued than is visible at the first glance. Indeed, the 
reader will not go far in an examination of the nature of the powers which 
proficients in occultism actually possess, without seeing that it is supremely 
desirable to keep back the practical exercise of such powers from the world at 
large. But it is one thing to deny mankind generally the key which unlocks 
the mystery of occult power; it is another to withhold the fact that there is a 
mystery to unlock. However, the further discussion of that question here 
would be premature. Enough for the present to take note of the fact that 
secrecy after all is not complete if external students of the subject are enabled 
to learn as much about the mysteries as I shall have to tell. Manifestly, there 
is a great deal more behind, but, at all events, a great deal is to be learned by 
inquirers who will set to work in the right way, and that which may now be 
learned is no new revelation at last capriciously extended to the outer world 
for the first time.  
In former periods of history , a great deal more has been known about the 
nature of occultism by the world at large than is known at this moment to the 
modern West. The bigotry of modem civilization, and not the jealousy of the 
occultist, is to blame if the European races are at this moment more generally 
ignorant of the extent to which psychological research has been carried, than 
the Egyptian populace in the past, or the people of India in the present day. 
As regards the latter, amongst whom the truth of the theory just suggested 
can easily be put to the test, you will find the great majority of Hindus 
perfectly convinced of the truth of the main statements which I am about to 
put forward. They do not generally or readily talk about such subjects with 
Europeans, because these are so prone to stupid derision of views they do not 
understand or believe in already. The Indian native is very timid in presence 
of such ridicule. But it does not affect in the slightest degree the beliefs which 
rest in his own mind on the fundamental teaching he will always have 
received, and in many cases on odds and ends of experiences he may himself 
have had. The Hindus are thus well aware, as a body, of the fact that there 
are persons who by entire devotion to certain modes of life acquire unusual 
powers in the nature of such as Europeans would very erroneously call 
supernatural. They are quite familiar with the notion that such persons live 
secluded lives, and are inaccessible to ordinary curiosity, and that they are 
none the less approachable by fit and determined candidates for admission to 
occult training. Ask any cultivated Hindu if he has ever heard of Mahatmas 
and Yog Vidya or occult science, and it is a hundred to one that you will find 
he has-and, unless he happens to be one of the hybrid products of Anglo
Indian Universities, that he fully believes in the reality of the powers 
ascribed to Yoga. It does not follow that he will at once say " Yes" to a 
European asking the question. He will probably say just the reverse from the 
apprehension I have spoken of above, but push your questions home and you 
will discover the truth, as I did, for example, in the case of a very intelligent 
English-speaking native vakeel in an influential position and in constant 
relations with high European officials, last year. At first my new 
acquaintance met my inquiries as to whether he knew anything about these 
subjects with a wooden look of complete ignorance, and an explicit denial of 
any knowledge as to what I meant at all. It was not till the second time I saw 
him in private, at my own house, that by degrees it grew upon him that I was 
in earnest, and knew something about Yoga myself, and then he quietly 
opened out his real thoughts on the subject, and showed me that he knew not 
only perfectly well what I meant all along, but was stocked with information 
concerning occurrences and phenomena of an occult or apparently 
supernatural order, many of which had been observed in his own family and 
some by himself. 
The point of all this is that Europeans are not justified in attributing to the 
jealousy of the occultists the absolute and entire ignorance of all that 
concerns them which pervades the modern society of the West. The West has 
been occupied with the business of material progress to the exclusion of 
psychological development. Perhaps it has done best for the world in 
confining itself to its specially, but however this may be, it has only itself to 
blame if its concentration of purpose has led to something like retrogression 
in another branch of development.  
Jacolliot, a French writer, who has dealt at great length with various phases 
of Spiritism in the East, was told by one who must have been an adept to 
judge by the language used: " You have studied physical Nature, and you 
have obtained through the laws of Nature marvellous results- steam, 
electricity, etc.,etc. For twenty thousand years or more we have studied the 
intellectual forces; we have discovered their laws, and we obtain, by making 
them act alone or in concert with matter, phenomena still more astonishing 
than your own." Jacolliot adds: " We have seen things such as one does not 
describe for fear of making his readers doubt his intelligence......... but still we 
have seen them." 
III 
Occult phenomena must not be confused with the phenomena of spiritualism. 
The latter, whatever they may be, are manifestations which mediums can 
neither control nor understand in a scientific sense. The former are 
achievements of a conscious, living operator comprehending the laws with 
which he works. If these achievements appear miraculous, that is the fault of 
the observer's ignorance. The spiritualist knows perfectly well, in spite of 
ignorant mockery on the part of outsiders content to laugh without knowing 
what they are laughing at, that all kinds of occurrences distinctly outside the 
range of physical causation do constantly take place for inquirers who hunt 
them with sufficient diligence. But he has never been able to do more than 
frame hypotheses in respect to the hidden laws of Nature by virtue of which 
they have been produced. He has taken up a certain hypothesis faute de 
mieux in the first instance, and working always on this idea, has constructed 
such an elaborate edifice of theory round the facts that he is very reluctant to 
tolerate the interposition of a new hypothesis which will oblige him to revise 
his conclusions in some very important particulars. There will be no way of 
avoiding this necessity, however, if he belongs to the order of inquirers who 
care rather to be sure they have laid hold of the truth than to fortify a 
doctrine they have espoused for better or for worse.  
Broadly speaking, there is scarcely one of the phenomena of spiritualism that 
adepts in occultism cannot reproduce by the force of their own will, 
supplemented by a comprehension of the resources of Nature. As will be seen 
when I come to a direct narrative of my own experiences, I have seen some of 
the most familiar phenomena of spiritualism produced by purely human 
agency. The old original spirit-rap which introduced the mightier phenomena 
of spiritualism has been manifested for my edification in a countless variety 
of ways, and under conditions which render the hypothesis of any spiritual 
agency in the matter wholly preposterous. I have seen flowers fall from the 
blank ceiling of a room under circumstances that gave me a practical 
assurance that no spiritual agency was at work, though in a manner as 
absolutely " supernatural" in the sense of being produced without the aid of 
any material appliances, as any of the floral showers by which some spiritual 
mediums are attended. I have over and over again received " direct writing," 
produced on paper in sealed envelopes of my own, which was created or 
precipitated by a living human correspondent. I have information, which, 
though second-hand, is very trustworthy, of a great variety of other familiar 
spiritual phenomena produced in the same way by human adepts in 
occultism. But it is not my present task to make war on spiritualism. The 
announcements I have to make will, indeed, be probably received more 
readily among spiritualists than in the outer circles of the ordinary world, for 
the spiritualists are at all events aware, from their own experience, that the 
orthodox science of the day does not know the last word concerning mind and 
matter, while the orthodox outsider stupidly clings to a denial of facts when 
these are of a nature which he foresees himself unable to explain. As the facts 
of spiritualism, though accessible to any honest man who goes in search of 
them, are not of a kind which anyone can carry about and fling in the faces of 
pragmatic" sceptics," these latter are enabled to keep up their professions of 
incredulity without the foolishness of their position being obvious to each 
other, plain as it is to" the initiated." However, although in this way the 
ordinary scientific mind will be reluctant to admit either the trustworthiness 
of my testimony or the conceivability of my explanations, it may allay some 
hostile prejudices to make clear at the onset that occult science deals with no 
guesswork concerning the post-mortem intervention of human beings in the 
affairs of this world. Its methods are as precise, and its mental discipline as 
rigid, as those of the laboratory or the university lecture-room. Wedding with 
theosophic research, spiritualism itself might guard itself from all those 
hasty inferences which have done so much to turn large sections of the 
cultivated people against it, and if they will but take the trouble to approach 
the subject from the point of view of occult science, students of physical 
Nature will be enabled at last to handle the phenomena of spiritualism freely, 
to consider them apart from the theories to which they have prematurely 
given rise ; and thus relieved of the repugnance they feel for them at present, 
to bring them within the area of that which they at last will willingly 
recognise as true scientific generalisations.  
OCCULTISM AND THE ADEPTS 
I 
The powers with which occultism invests its adepts include, to begin with, a 
control over various forces in Nature which ordinary science knows nothing 
about, and by means of which an adept can hold conversation with any other 
adept, whatever intervals on the earth's surface may lie between them. This 
psychological telegraphy is wholly independent of all mechanical conditions 
or appliances whatever.[ See Appendix B. ] And the clairvoyant faculties of 
the adept are so perfect and complete that they amount to a species of 
omniscience as regards mundane affairs. The body is the prison of the soul for 
ordinary mortals. We can see merely what comes before its windows ; we can 
take cognisance only of what is brought within its bars. But the adept has 
found the key of his prison and can emerge from it at pleasure. It is no longer 
a prison for him-merely a d welling. In other words, the adept can project his 
soul out of his body to any place he pleases with the rapidity of thought.  
The whole edifice of occultism from basement to roof is so utterly strange to 
ordinary conceptions that it is difficult to know how to begin an explanation 
of its contents. How could one describe a calculating machine to an audience 
unfamiliar with the simplest mechanical contrivances and knowing nothing 
of arithmetic§ And the highly cultured classes of modern Europe, as regards 
the achievements of occultism, are, in spite of the perfection of their literary 
scholarship and the exquisite precision of their attainments in their own 
departments of science, in the position as regards occultism of knowing 
nothing about the A B C of the subject, nothing about the capacities of the 
soul at all as distinguished from the capacities of body and soul combined. 
The occultists for ages have devoted themselves to that study chiefly; they 
have accomplished results in connexion with it which are absolutely 
bewildering in their magnificence; but suddenly introduced to some of these, 
the prosaic intelligence is staggered and feels in a world of miracle and 
enchantment. On charts that show the stream of history, the nations all 
intermingle more or less, except the Chinese, and that is shown coming down 
in a single river without affluents and without branches from out of the 
clouds of time. Suppose that civilized Europe had not come into contact with 
the Chinese till lately, and suppose that the Chinamen, very much brighter 
in intelligence than they really are, had developed some branch of physical 
science to the point it actually has reached with us; suppose that particular 
branch had been entirely neglected with us, the surprise we should feel at 
taking up the Chinese discoveries in their refined development without 
having gradually grown familiar with their small beginnings would be very 
great. Now this is exactly the situation as regards occult science. The 
occultists have been a race apart from an earlier period than we can fathom- 
not a separate race physically, not a uniform race physically at all, nor a 
nation in any sense of the word, but a continuous association of men of the 
highest intelligence linked together by a bond stronger than any other tie of 
which mankind has experience, and carrying on with a perfect continuity of 
purpose the studies and traditions and mysteries of self-development handed 
down to them by their predecessors. All this time the stream of civilization, 
on the foremost waves of which the culture of modern Europe is floating, has 
been wholly and absolutely neglectful of the one study with which the 
occultists have been solely engaged. What wonder that the two lines of 
civilization have diverged so far apart that their forms are now entirely 
unlike each other. It remains to be seen whether this attempt to reintroduce 
the long-estranged cousins will be tolerated or treated as an impudent 
attempt to pass off an impostor as a relation.  
I have said that the occultist can project his soul from his body. As an 
incidental discovery, it will be observed, he has thus ascertained beyond all 
shadow of doubt that he really has got a soul. A comparison of myths has 
sometimes been called the science of religion. If there can really be a science 
of religion it must necessarily be occultism. On the surface, perhaps, it may 
not be obvious that religious truth must necessarily open out more completely 
to the soul as temporarily loosened from the body, than to the soul as taking 
cognisance of ideas through the medium of the physical senses. But to ascend 
into a realm of immateriality, where cognition becomes a process of pure 
perception while the intellectual faculties are in full play and centred in the 
immaterial man, must manifestly be conducive to an enlarged comprehension 
of religious truth.  
I have just spoken of the" immaterial man " as distinguished from the body of 
the physical senses ; but, so complex is the statement I have to make, that I 
must no sooner induce the reader to tolerate the phrase than I must reject it 
for the future as inaccurate. Occult philosophy has ascertained that the inner 
ethereal self, which is the man as distinguished from his body, is itself the 
envelope of something more ethereal still --is itself, in a subtle sense of the 
term, material.  
The majority of civilized people believe that man has a soul which will 
somehow survive the dissolution of the body; but they have to confess that 
they do not know very much about it. A good many of the most highly 
civilized, have grave doubts on the subject, and some think that researches in 
physics which have suggested the notion that even thought may be a mode of 
motion, tend to establish the strong probability of the hypothesis that when 
the life of the body is destroyed nothing else survives. Occult philosophy does 
not speculate about the matter at all ; it knows the state of the facts.  
St. Paul, who was an occultist, speaks of man as constituted of body, soul, 
and spirit. The distinction is one that hardly fits in with the theory, that 
when a man dies his soul is translated to heaven or hell for ever. What then 
becomes of the spirit, and what is the spirit as different from the soul, on the 
ordinary hypothesis. Orthodox thinkers work out each some theory on the 
subject for himself. Either that the soul is the seat of the emotions and the 
spirit of the intellectual faculties, or vice versa. No one can put such 
conjectures on a solid foundation, not even on the basis of an alleged 
revelation. But St. Paul was not indulging in vague fancies when he made 
use of the expression quoted. The spirit he was referring to may be described 
as the soul of the soul. With that for the moment we need not be concerned. 
The important point which occultism brings out is that the soul of man, while 
something enormously subtler and more ethereal and more lasting than the 
body, is itself a material reality. Not material as chemistry understands 
matter, but as physical science en bloc might understand it if the tentacle of 
each branch of science were to grow more sensitive and were to work more in 
harmony. It is no denial of the materiality of any hypothetical substance to 
say that one cannot determine its atomic weight and its affinities. The ether 
that transmits light is held to be material by anyone who holds it to exist at 
all, but there is a gulf of difference between it and the thinnest of the gases. 
You do not always approach a scientific truth from the same direction. You 
may perceive some directly; you have to infer others indirectly; but these 
latter may not on that account be the less certain. The materiality of ether is 
inferable from the behaviour of light: the materiality of the soul may be 
inferable from its subjection to forces. A mesmeric influence is a force 
emanating from certain physical characteristics of the mesmerist. It impinges 
on the soul of the subject at a distance and produces an effect perceptible to 
him, demonstrable to others. Of course this is an illustration and no proof. I 
must set forth as well as I am able--and that can but be very imperfectly-the 
discoveries of occultism without at first attempting the establishment by 
proof of each part of these discoveries. Further on, I shall be able to prove 
some parts at any rate, and others will then be recognised as indirectly 
established, too.  
The soul is material, and inheres in the ordinarily more grossly material 
body; and it is this condition of things which enables the occultist to speak 
positively on the subject, for he can satisfy himself at one coup that there is 
such a thing as a soul, and that it is material in its nature, by dissociating it 
from the body under some conditions, and restoring it again. The occultist 
can even do this sometimes with other souls; his primary achievement, 
however, is to do so with his own. When I say that the occultist knows he has 
a soul I refer to this power. He knows it just as another man knows he has a 
great coat. He can put it from him, and render it manifest as something 
separate from himself. But remember that to him, when the separation is 
effected, he is the soul and the thing put off is the body. And this is to attain 
nothing less than absolute certainty about the great problem of survival after 
death. The adept does not rely on faith, or on metaphysical speculation, in 
regard to the possibilities of his existence apart from the body. He 
experiences such an existence whenever he pleases, and although it may be 
allowed that the more art of emancipating himself temporarily from the body 
would not necessarily inform him concerning his ultimate destinies after that 
emancipation should be final at death, it gives him, at all events, exact 
knowledge concerning the conditions under which he will start on his journey 
in the next world. While his body lives, his soul is, so to speak, a captive 
balloon (though with a very long, elastic and imponderable cable). Captive 
ascents will not necessarily tell him whether the balloon will float when at 
last the machinery below breaks up, and he finds himself altogether adrift; 
but it is something to be an aeronaut already, before the journey begins, and 
to know definitely, as I said before, that there are such things as balloons, for 
certain emergencies, to sail in. 
There would be infinite grandeur in the faculty I have described alone, 
supposing that were the end of adeptship : but instead of being the end, it is 
more like the beginning. The seemingly magic feats which the adepts in 
occultism have the power to perform, are accomplished, I am given to 
understand, by means of familiarity with a force in nature which is referred 
to in Sanskrit writings as akaz. Western science has done much in 
discovering some of the properties and powers of electricity. Occult science, 
ages before, had done much more in discovering the properties and powers of 
akaz. In " The Coming Race," the late Lord Bulwer Lytton, whose connexion 
with occultism appears to have been closer than the world generally has yet 
realised, gives a fantastic and imaginative account of the wonders achieved in 
the world to which his hero penetrates, by means of Vril. In writing of Vril, 
Lord Lytton has clearly been poetising akaz. "The Coming Race" is described 
as a people entirely unlike adepts in many essential particulars--as a 
complete nation, for one thing, of men and women all equally handling the 
powers, even from childhood, which- or some of which among others not 
described- the adepts have conquered. This is a mere fairy-tale, founded on 
the achievements of occultism. But no one who has made a study of the latter 
can fail to see, can fail to recognise with a conviction amounting to certainty, 
that the author of "The Coming Race " must have been familiar with the 
leading ideas of occultism, perhaps with a great deal more. The same 
evidence is afforded by Lord Lytton's other novels of mystery, " Zanoni," and 
"The Strange Story." In "Zanoni," the sublime personage in the background, 
Mejnour, is intended plainly to be a great adept of Eastern occultism, exactly 
like those of whom I have to speak. It is difficult to know why in this case, 
where Lord Lytton has manifestly intended to adhere much more closely to 
the real facts of occultism than in " The Coming Race," he should have 
represented Mejnour as a solitary survivor of the Rosicrucian fraternity. The 
guardians of occult science are content to be a small body as compared with 
the tremendous importance of the knowledge which they save from perishing, 
but they have never allowed their numbers to diminish to the extent of being 
in any danger of ceasing to exist as an organised body on earth. It is difficult 
again to understand why Lord Lytton, having learned so much as he 
certainly did, should have been content to use up his information merely as 
an ornament of fiction, instead of giving it to the world in a form which 
should claim more serious consideration. At all events, prosaic people will 
argue to that effect; but it is not impossible that Lord Lytton himself had 
become, through long study of the subject, so permeated with the love of 
mystery which inheres in the occult mind apparently, that he preferred to 
throw out his information in a veiled and mystic shape, so that it would be 
intelligible to readers in sympathy with himself, and would blow unnoticed 
past the commonplace understanding without awakening the angry rejection 
which these pages, for example, if they are destined to attract any notice at 
all, will assuredly encounter at the hands of bigots in science, religion, and 
the great philosophy of the commonplace.  
Akaz, be it then understood, is a force for which we have no name, and in 
reference to which we have no experience to guide us to a conception of its 
nature. One can on)y grasp at the idea required by conceiving that it is as 
much more potent, subtle, and extraordinary an agent than electricity, as 
electricity is superior in subtlety and variegated efficiency to steam. It is 
through his acquaintance with the properties of this force, that the adept can 
accomplish the physical phenomena, which I shall presently be able to show 
are within his reach, besides others of far greater magnificence.  
II 
Who are the adepts who handle the tremendous forces of which I speak ? 
There is reason to believe that such adepts have existed in all historic ages, 
and there are such adepts in India at this moment, or in adjacent countries. 
The identity of the knowledge they have inherited, with that of ancient 
initiates in occultism, follows irresistibly from an examination of the views 
they hold and the faculties they exercise. The conclusion has to be worked out 
from a mass of literary evidence, and it will be enough to state it for the 
moment, pointing out the proper channels of research in the matter 
afterwards. For the present let us consider the position of the adepts as they 
now exist, or, to use the designation more generally employed in India, of " 
the Mahatmas." [ Mahatma -Great Soul, or Great Spirit, derived from Maha 
and Atma.] 
They constitute a Brotherhood, or Secret Association, which ramifies all over 
the East, but the principal seat of which for the present I gather to be in 
Tibet. But India has not yet been deserted by the adepts, and from that 
country they still receive many recruits. For the great fraternity is at once 
the least and the most exclusive organization in the world, and fresh recruits 
from any race or country are welcome, provided they possess the needed 
qualifications. The door, as I have been told by one who is himself an adept, is 
always open to the right man who knocks, but the road that has to be 
travelled before the door is reached is one which none but very determined 
travellers can hope to pass. It is manifestly impossible that I can describe its 
perils in any but very general terms, but it is not necessary to have learned 
any secrets of initiation to understand the character of the training through 
which a neophyte must pass before he attains the dignity of a proficient in 
occultism. The adept is not made: he becomes, as I have been constantly 
assured, and the process of becoming is mainly in his own hands.  
Never, I believe, in less than seven years from the time at which a candidate 
for initiation is accepted as a probationer, is he ever admitted to the very first 
of the ordeals, whatever they may be, which bar the way to the earliest 
decrees of occultism, and there is no security for him that the seven years 
may not be extended ad libitum. He has no security that he will ever be 
admitted to any initiation whatever. Nor is this appalling uncertainty, which 
would alone deter most Europeans, however keen upon the subject 
intellectually, from attempting to advance, themselves, into the domain of 
occultism, maintained from the mere caprice of a despotic society, coquetting, 
so to speak, with the eagerness of its wooers. The trials through which the 
neophyte has to pass are no fantastic mockeries, or mimicries of awful peril. 
Nor, do I take it, are they artificial barriers set up by the masters of 
occultism, to try the nerve of their pupils, as a riding-master might put up 
fences in his school. It is inherent in the nature of the science that has to be 
explored, that its revelations shall stagger the reason and try the most 
resolute courage. It is in his own interest that the candidate's character and 
fixity of purpose, and perhaps his physical and mental attributes, are tested 
and watched with infinite care and patience in the first instance, before he is 
allowed to take the final plunge into the sea of strange experiences through 
which he must swim with the strength of his own right arm, or perish.  
As to what may be the nature of the trials that await him during the period 
of his development, it will be obvious that I can have no accurate knowledge, 
and conjectures based on fragmentary revelations pictured up here and there 
are not worth recording, but as for the nature of the life led by the mere 
candidate for admission as a neophyte it will be equally plain that no secret is 
involved. The ultimate development of the adept requires amongst other 
things a life of absolute physical purity, and the candidate must, from the 
beginning, give practical evidence of his willingness to adopt this. He must, 
that is to say, for all the years of his probation, be perfectly chaste, perfectly 
abstemious, and indifferent to physical luxury of every sort. This regimen 
does not involve any fantastic discipline or obtrusive asceticism, nor 
withdrawal from the world. There would be nothing to prevent a gentleman 
in ordinary society from being in some of the preliminary stages of training 
for occult candidature without anybody about him being the wiser. For true 
occultism, the sublime achievement of the real adept, is not attained through 
the loathsome asceticism of the ordinary Indian fakir, the yogi of the woods 
and wilds, whose dirt accumulates with his sanctity--of the fanatic who 
fastens iron hooks into his flesh, or holds up an arm until it is withered. An 
imperfect knowledge of some of the external facts of Indian occultism will 
often lead to a misunderstanding on this point.  
Yog Vidya is the Indian name for occult science, and it is easy to learn a good 
deal more than is worth learning about the practices of some misguided 
enthusiasts who cultivate some of its inferior branches by means of mere 
physical exercises. Properly speaking, this physical development is called 
Hatta Yog, while the loftier sort, which is approached by the discipline of the 
mind, and which leads to the high altitudes of occultism, is called Raya yog. 
No person whom a real occultist would ever think of as an adept, has 
acquired his powers by means of the laborious and puerile exercises of the 
Hatta yog. I do not mean to say that these inferior exercises are altogether 
futile. They do invest the person who pursues them with some abnormal 
faculties and powers. Many treatises have been written to describe them, and 
many people who have lived in India will be able to relate curious experiences 
they have had with proficients in this extraordinary craft. I do not wish to fill 
these pages with tales of wonder that I have had no means of sifting, or it 
would be easy to collect examples; but the point to insist on here is that no 
story anyone can have heard or read which seems to put an ignoble, or petty, 
or low-minded aspect on Indian yogeeism can have any application to the 
ethereal yogeeism which is called Raya yoga, and which leads to the awful 
heights of true adeptship.  
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY  
SECRET as the occult organization has always remained, there is a good deal 
more to be learned concerning the philosophical views which it has preserved 
or acquired, than might be supposed at the first glance. As my own 
experience when fully described will show, the great adepts of occultism 
themselves have no repugnance to the dissemination of their religions 
philosophy So far as a world untrained as ours is in pure psychological 
investigation can profit by such teaching. Nor even are they unconquerably 
averse to the occasional manifestation of those superior powers over the 
forces of Nature to which their extraordinary researches have led them. The 
many apparently miraculous phenomena which I have witnessed through 
occult agency could never have been exhibited if the general rule which 
precludes the Brothers from the exhibition of their powers to uninitiated 
persons were absolute. As a general rule, indeed, the display of any occult 
phenomenon for the purpose of exciting the wonder and admiration of 
beholders is strictly forbidden. And indeed I should imagine that such 
prohibition is absolute if there is no higher purpose involved. But it is plain 
that with a purely philanthropic desire to spread the credit of a philosophical 
system which is ennobling in its character, the Brothers may sometimes 
wisely permit the display of abnormal phenomena when the minds to which 
such an appeal t is made may be likely to rise from the appreciation of the 
wonder to a befitting respect for the philosophy in which it accredits. And the 
history of the Theosophical Society has been an expansion of this idea. That 
history has been a chequered one, because the phenomena that have been 
displayed have often failed of their effect, have sometimes become the subject 
of a premature publicity, and have brought down on the study of occult 
philosophy as regarded from the point of view of the outer world, and on the 
devoted persons who have been chiefly identified with its encouragement by 
means of the Theosophical Society, a great deal of stupid ridicule and some 
malevolent persecution. It may be asked why the Brothers, if they are really 
the great and all- powerful persons I represent them, have permitted 
indiscretions of the kind referred to, but the inquiry is not so embarrassing as 
it may seem at the first glance. If the picture of the Brothers that I have 
endeavoured to present to the reader has been appreciated rightly, it will 
show them less accurately qualified, in spite of their powers, than persons of 
lesser occult development, to carryon any under taking which involves direct 
relations with a multiplicity of ordinary people in the commonplace world. I 
gather the primary purpose of the Brotherhood to be something very unlike 
the task I am engaged in, for example, at this moment- the endeavour to 
convince the public generally that there really are faculties latent in 
humanity capable of such extraordinary development, that they carry us at a 
bound to an immense distance beyond the dreams of physical science in 
reference to the comprehension of Nature, and at the same time afford us 
positive testimony concerning the constitution and destinies of the human 
soul. That is a task on which it is reasonable to suppose the Brothers would 
cast a sympathetic glance, but it will be obvious on a moment's reflection, 
that their primary duty must be to keep alive the actuality of that knowledge, 
and of those powers concerning which I am merely giving some shadowy 
account. If the Brothers were to employ themselves on the large, rough 
business of hacking away at the incredulity of a stolid multitude, at the 
acrimonious incredulity of the materialistic phalanx, at the terrified and 
indignant incredulity of the orthodox religious world, it is conceivable that 
they might- propter vitam vivendi perdere causas- suffer the occult science 
itself to decay for the sake of persuading mankind that it did really exist. Of 
course it might be suggested that division of labour might be possible in 
occultism as in everything else, and that some adepts qualified for the work 
might be told off for the purpose of breaking down the incredulity of modern 
science, while the others would carry on the primary duties of their career in 
their own beloved seclusion. But a suggestion of this kind, however practical 
it may sound to a practical world, would probably present itself as eminently 
unpractical to the true mystic. To begin with, an aspirant for occult honours 
does not go through the tremendous and prolonged effort required to win him 
success, in order at the end of all things to embrace a life in the midst of the 
ordinary world, which on the hypothesis of his success in occultism must 
necessarily be repugnant to him in the extreme. Probably there is not one 
real adept who does not look with greater aversion and repugnance on any 
life except a life of seclusion, than we of the outer world would look on the 
notion of being buried alive in a remote mountain fastness where no foot or 
voice from the outer world could penetrate. I shall very soon be able to show 
that the love of seclusion, inherent in adeptship, does not imply a mind 
vacant of the knowledge of European culture and manners. It is, on the 
contrary, compatible with an amount of European culture and experience 
that people acquainted merely with the commonplace aspects of Eastern life 
will be surprised to find possible in the case of a man of Oriental birth. Now, 
the imaginary adept told off of the suggestion I am examining, to show the 
scientific world that there are realms of knowledge it has not yet explored 
and faculties attainable to man that it has not yet dreamed of possessing, 
would have to be either appointed to discharge that duty, or to volunteer for 
it. In the one case we have to assume that the occult fraternity is despotic in 
its treatment of its members in a manner which all my observation leads me 
to believe it certainly is not; in the other, we have to suppose some adept 
making a voluntary sacrifice of what he regards as not only the most 
agreeable but also the higher life- for what? for the sake of accomplishing a 
task which he does not regard as of very great importance-relatively, at any 
rate, to that other task in which he may take a part--the perpetuation and 
perhaps the development of the great science itself. But I do not care to follow 
the argument any further, because it will come on for special treatment in a 
different way presently. Enough for the moment to indicate that there are 
considerations against the adoption of that method of persuasion which, as 
far as the judgment of ordinary people would go, would seem the best suited 
to the introduction of occult truths to modern intelligence.  
And these considerations appear to have prompted the acceptance by the 
Brothers, of the Theosophical Society as a more or less imperfect, but still the 
best available agency for the performance of a piece of work, in which, 
without being actually prepared to enter on it themselves, they nevertheless 
take a cordial interest.  
And what are the peculiar conditions which render the Theosophical Society, 
the organization and management of which have been faulty in many ways, 
the best agency hitherto available for the propagation of occult truths ? The 
zeal and qualifications of its founder, Madame Blavatsky, give the 
explanation required. It is obvious that to give any countenance or support at 
all to a society concerned with the promulgation of occult philosophy, it was 
necessary for the Brothers to be in occult communication with it in some way 
or other. For it must be remembered that though it may seem to us a very 
amazing and impossible thing to sit still at home and impress our thoughts 
upon the mind of a distant friend by an effort of will, a Brother living in an 
unknown Himalayan retreat is not only able to converse as freely as he likes 
with any of his friends who are initiates like himself, in whatever part of the 
world they may happen to be, but would find any other modes of 
communication, such as those with which the crawling faculties of the outer 
world have to be content, simply intolerable in their tedium and inefficacy. 
Besides, he must be able to afford assistance to any society having its sphere 
of operations among people in the world, be able to hear from it with the 
same facility that he can send communications to it. So there must be an 
initiate at the other end of the line Finally, the occult rules evidently require 
this last-named condition, or what amounts to the same thing, forbid 
arrangements which can only be avoided on this condition.  
Now, Madame Blavatsky is an initiate- is an adept to the extent of possessing 
this magnificent power of psychological telegraphy with her occult friends. 
That she has stopped short of that further development in adeptship that 
would have tided her right over the boundary between this and the occult 
world altogether, is the circumstance which has rendered her assumption of 
the task with which the Theosophical Society is concerned compatible with 
the considerations pointed out above as operating to prevent the assumption 
of such a duty by a full adept. .As regards the supremely essential 
characteristic, she has, in fact, been exactly suited to the emergency. How it 
came to pass that her occult training carried her as far as it did and no 
further, is a question into which it is fruitless to inquire, because the answer 
would manifestly entail explanations which would impinge too closely on the 
secrets of initiation which are never disclosed under any circumstances 
whatever. After all she is a woman, -though her powerful mind, widely if 
erratically cultivated, and perfectly dauntless courage proved among other 
ways on the battlefield, but more than by any bravery with bullets, by her 
occult initiation, renders the name, connoting what I it ordinarily does, 
rather absurd in application to her,-and this has, perhaps, barred her from 
the highest degrees in occultism that she might otherwise have attained. At 
all events, after a course of occult study carried on for seven years in a 
Himalayan retreat, and crowning a devotion to occult pursuits extending over 
five-and-thirty or forty years, Madame Blavatsky reappeared in the world, 
dazed, as she met ordinary people going about in commonplace, benighted 
ignorance concerning the wonders of occult science, at the mere thought of 
the stupendous gulf of experience that separated her from them. She could 
hardly at first bear to associate with them, for thinking of all she knew that 
they did not know and that she was bound not to reveal. Any one can 
understand the burden of a great secret, but the burden of such a secret as 
occultism, and the burden of great powers only conferred on condition that 
their exercise should be very strictly circumscribed by rule, must have been 
trying indeed.  
Circumstances --or to put the matter more plainly, the guidance of friends 
from whom, though she had left them behind in the Himalayas on her return 
to Europe, she was no longer in danger of separation, as we understand the 
term, induced her to visit America, and there, assisted by some other persons 
whose interest in the subject was kindled by occasional manifestations of her 
extraordinary powers, and notably by Colonel Olcott, its life- devoted 
President, she founded the Theosophical Society, the objects of which, as 
originally defined, were to explore the latent psychological powers of man, 
and the ancient Oriental literature in which the clue to these may be hidden, 
and in which the philosophy of occult science may be partly discovered.  
The Society took root readily in America, while branches were also formed in 
England and elsewhere; but, leaving these to take care of themselves, 
Madame Blavatsky ultimately returned to India, to establish the Society 
there among the natives, from whose natural hereditary sympathies with 
mysticism it was reasonable to expect an ardent sympathy with a 
psychological enterprise which not only appealed to their intuitive belief in 
the reality of yog vidya, but also to their best patriotism, by exhibiting India 
as the fountainhead of the highest if the least known and the most secluded 
culture in the world.  
Here, however, began the practical blunders in the management of the 
Theosophical Society which led to the incidents referred to above, as having 
given it, so far, a chequered career. Madame Blavatsky, to begin with, was 
wholly unfamiliar with the everyday side of Indian life, her previous visits 
having brought her only into contact with groups of people utterly 
unconnected with the current social system and characteristics of the country 
Nor could she have undertaken a worse preparation for Indian life than that 
supplied by a residence of some years in the United States. This sent her out 
to India unfurnished with the recommendations which she could readily have 
obtained, if she had spent the time just referred to in England, and left her 
unprovided with information it was highly important for her to possess 
concerning the true character of the British ruling classes of India and their 
relations with the people.  
The consequence was that Mme. Blavatsky, on her first arrival in India, 
adopted an attitude of obtrusive sympathy with the natives of the soil as 
compared with the Europeans, seeking their society in a manner which, 
coupled with the fact that she made none of the usual advances to European 
society, and with her manifestly Russian name, had the effect not 
unnaturally of rendering her suspecte to the rather clumsy organization 
which in India attempts to combine with sundry others, the functions of a 
political police. These suspicions, it is true, were allayed almost as soon as 
they were conceived, but not before Madame Blavatsky had been made for a 
short time the object of an espionage so awkward that it became grossly 
obvious to herself and roused her indignation to fever heat. To a more 
phlegmatic nature the incident would have been little more than amusing, 
but all accidents combined to develop trouble. A Russian by birth, though 
naturalised in the United States, Madame Blavatsky is probably more 
sensitive than an English woman ,less experienced in political espionage 
would be to the insult involved in being taken for a spy. Then the inner 
consciousness of having, for enthusiasm in the purely intellectual or spiritual 
enterprise to which she had devoted her life, renounced the place in society to 
which her distinguished birth and family naturally entitled her, probably 
intensified the bitterness of her indignation, at finding the sacrifice not only 
unappreciated, but turned against her, and regarded as justifying a foul 
suspicion. At all events, the circumstances acting on an excitable 
temperament led her to make public protests which caused it to be widely 
known by natives as well as by Europeans, that she had been looked at 
askance by Government authorities. And this idea for a time impeded the 
success of her work. Nothing can be done in India without a European 
impulse in the beginning; at all events, it handicaps any enterprise 
frightfully to be without such an impulse if native co-operation is required. 
Not that the Theosophical Society failed to get members. The natives were 
:flattered at the attitude towards them taken up by their new" European " 
friends, as Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott were no doubt generally 
regarded in spite of their American nationality, and showed a shallow 
eagerness to become Theosophists. But their ardour did not always prove 
durable, and in some few cases they showed a lamentable want of 
earnestness by breaking away from the Society altogether.  
Meanwhile, Madame Blavatsky began to make friends amongst the 
Europeans, and in 1880 visited Simla, where she began late in the day to 
approach her work from the right direction. Again, however, some mistakes 
were made which have retarded the establishment of the Theosophical 
Society, as far as India is concerned, on the dignified footing that it ought to 
occupy. A great many wonderful phenomena were manifested in the presence 
at various times of a great many people; but proper safeguards were not 
taken to avert the great danger that must always attend such a method of 
recommending occult science to public notice. It is beyond dispute that 
phenomena, exhibited under thoroughly satisfactory conditions to persons 
intelligent enough to comprehend their significance, create an effect in 
awakening a thirst for the study of occult philosophy that no other appeal can 
produce. But it is equally true, though at the first glance this may not be so 
apparent, that to minds , quite unprepared by previous training to grasp the 
operation of occult forces, the most perfectly unimpeachable phenomenon will 
be received rather as an insult to the understanding than as a proof of the 
operation of occult power. This is especially the case with persons of merely 
average intelligence, of whose faculties cannot stand the shock of a sudden 
appeal to an entirely new set of ideas. The strain is too great; the new chain 
of reasoning breaks, and the commonplace observer of abnormal occurrences 
reverts to his original frame of stolid incredulity, perfectly unaware of the 
fact that a revelation of priceless intellectual importance has been offered to 
him and has been misunderstood. Nothing is commoner than to hear people 
say: " I can't believe in the reality of a phenomenal occurrence unless I see it 
for myself. Show it me and I shall believe in it, but not till then." Many people 
who say this are quite mistaken as to what they would believe if the 
occurrence were shown to them. I have over and over again seen phenomena 
of an absolutely genuine nature pass before the eyes of people unused to 
investigating occurrences of the kind, and leave no impression behind beyond 
an irritated conviction that they were somehow being taken in. Just this 
happened in some conspicuous instances at Simla, and it is needless to say 
that many as were the phenomena that Madame Blavatsky produced, or was 
instrumental in producing, during the visit to which I am referring, the 
number of people in the place who had no opportunity of seeing them was 
considerably greater than that of the witnesses. And for these, as a rule, the 
whole series of incidents presented itself simply as an imposition. It was 
nothing to the purpose for the holders of this theory that there was a glaring 
absence from the whole business of any motive for imposture, that a 
considerable group of persons whose testimony and capacity would never 
have been impugned had any other matter been under discussion, were 
emphatic in their declarations as to the complete reality of the phenomena 
that had been displayed. The commonplace mind could not assimilate the 
idea that it was face to face with a new revelation in Nature, and any 
hypothesis, no matter how absurd and illogical in its details, was preferable 
for the majority to the simple grandeur of the truth.  
On the whole, therefore, as Madame Blavatsky became a celebrity in India, 
her relations with European society were intensified. She made many friends, 
and secured some ardent converts to a belief in the reality of occult powers ; 
but she became the innocent object of bitter animosity on the part of some 
other acquaintances, who, unable to assimilate what they saw in her 
presence, took up all attitude of disbelief, which deepened into positive 
enmity as the whole subject became enveloped in a cloud of more or less 
excited controversy.  
And it is needless to say that many of the newspapers made great capital out 
of the whole situation ridiculing Madame Blavatsky's dupes, and twisting 
every bit of information that came out about her phenomena into the most 
ludicrous shape it could be made to assume. Mockery of that sort was 
naturally expected by English friends who avowed their belief in the reality 
of Madame Blavatsky's powers, and probably never gave one of them a 
moment's serious annoyance. But for the oversensitive and excitable person 
chiefly concerned they were indescribably tormenting, and eventually it grew 
doubtful whether her patience would stand the strain put upon it; whether 
she would not relinquish altogether the ungrateful task of inducing the world 
at large to accept the good gifts ,which she had devoted her life to offering 
them. Happily, so far, no catastrophe has ensued ; but no history of Columbus 
in chains for discovering a new world, or Galileo in prison for announcing the 
true principles of astronomy, is more remarkable for those who know all the 
bearings of the situation in India, as regards the Theosophical Society, than 
the sight of Madam Blavatsky, slandered and ridiculed by most of the Anglo
Indian papers, and spoken of as a charlatan by the commonplace crowd, in 
return for having freely offered them some of the wonderful fruits- as much 
as the rules of the great occult association permit her to offer-of the lifelong 
struggle in which she has conquered her extraordinary knowledge.  
In spite of all this, meanwhile, the Theosophical Society remains the one 
organization which supplies to inquirers who thirst for occult knowledge a 
link of communication, however slight, with the great fraternity in the 
background which takes an interest in its progress, and is accessible to its 
founder.  
FIRST OCCULT EXPERIENCES.  
It has been through my connection with the Theosophical Society and my 
acquaintance with Madame Blavatsky that I have obtained experiences in 
connection with occultism, which have prompted me to undertake my present 
task. The first problem I had to solve was whether Madame Blavatsky really 
did, as I heard, possess the power of producing abnormal phenomena. And it 
may be imagined that, on the assumption of the reality of her phenomena, 
nothing would have been simpler than to obtain such satisfaction when once I 
had formed her acquaintance. It is, however, an illustration of the 
embarrassments which surround all inquiries of this nature- 
embarrassments with which so many people grow impatient, to the end that 
they cast inquiry altogether aside and remain wholly ignorant of the truth for 
the rest of their lives- that although on the first occasion of my making. 
Madame BIavatsky's acquaintance she became a guest at my house at 
Allahabad and remained there for six weeks, the harvest of satisfaction I was 
enabled to obtain during this time was exceedingly small. Of course I heard a 
great deal from her during the time mentioned about occultism and the 
Brothers, but while she was most anxious that I should understand the 
situation thoroughly, and I was most anxious to get at the truth, the 
difficulties to be overcome were almost insuperable. For the Brothers, as 
already described, have an unconquerable objection to showing off. That the 
person who wishes them to show off is an earnest seeker of truth, and not 
governed by mere idle curiosity, is nothing to the purpose. They do not want 
to attract candidates for initiation by an exhibition of wonders. Wonders have 
a very spirit-stirring effect on the history of every religion founded on 
miracles, but occultism is not a pursuit which people can safely take up in 
obedience to the impulse of enthusiasm created by witnessing a display of 
extraordinary power. There is no absolute rule to forbid the exhibition of 
powers in presence of the outsider ; but it is clearly disapproved of by the 
higher authorities of occultism on principle, and it is practically impossible 
for less exalted proficients to go against this disapproval. It was only the very 
slightest of all imaginable phenomena that, during her first visit to my house, 
Madame Blavatsky was thus permitted to exhibit freely. She was allowed to 
show that" raps " like those which spiritualists attribute to spirit agency, 
could be produced at will. This was something, and faute de mieux we paid 
great attention to raps.  
Spiritualists are aware that when groups of people sit round a table and put 
their hands upon it, they will, if a "medium " be present, generally hear little 
knocks which respond to questions and spell out messages. The large outer 
circle of persons who do not believe in spiritualism are fain to imagine that 
all the millions who do, are duped as regards this impression. It must 
sometimes be troublesome for them to account for the wide development of 
the delusion, but any theory, they think, is preferable to admitting the 
possibility that the spirits of deceased persons can communicate in this way; 
or, if they take the scientific view of the matter, that a physical effect, 
however slight, can be produced without a physical cause. Such persons 
ought to welcome the explanations I am now giving, tending as these do to 
show that the theory of universal self-deception as regards spirit-rapping, 
which must be rather an awkward theory for anyone but a ludicrously 
conceited objector to hold, is not the only one by means of which the asserted 
facts of spiritualism- those with which we are now dealing at all events- can 
be reconciled with a reluctance to accept the spiritual hypothesis as the 
explanation.  
Now, I soon found out not only that raps would always come at a table at 
which Madame Blavatsky sat with the view of obtaining such results, but 
that all conceivable hypotheses of fraud in the matter were rapidly disposed 
of by a comparison of the various experiments we were able to make. To begin 
with, there was no necessity for other people to sit at the table at all. We 
could work with any table under any circumstances, or without a table at all. 
A windowpane would do equally well, or the wall, or any door, or anything 
whatever which could give out a sound if hit. A half glass door put ajar was at 
once seen to be a very good instrument to choose, because it was easy to 
stand opposite Madame Blavatsky in this case, to see her bare hands or hand 
(without any rings) resting motionless on the pane, and to hear the little ticks 
come plainly, as if made with the point of a pencil or ,with the sound of 
electric sparks passing from one knob of an electrical apparatus to another. 
Another very satisfactory way of obtaining the raps- one frequently employed 
in the evening- was to set down a large glass clock-shade on the hearthrug, 
and get Madame Blavatsky, after removing all rings from her hands, and 
sitting well clear of the shade so that no part of her dress touched it, to lay 
her hands on it. Putting a lamp on the ground opposite, and sitting down on 
the hearthrug, one could see the under surfaces of the hands resting on the 
glass, and still under these perfectly satisfactory conditions the raps would 
come, clear and distinct, on the sonorous surface of the shade.  
It was out of Madame Blavatsky's power to give an exact explanation as to 
how these raps were produced. Every effort of occult power is connected with 
some secret or other, and slight, regarded in the light of phenomena, as the 
raps were, they were physical effects produced by an effort of will, and the 
manner in which the will can be trained to produce physical effects may be 
too uniform, as regards great and small phenomena, to be made in 
accordance with the rules of occultism the subject of exact explanations to 
uninitiated persons. But the fact that the raps were obedient to the will was 
readily put beyond dispute, in this way amongst others: working with the 
windowpane or the clockshade, I would ask to have a name spelled out, 
mentioning one at random. Then I would call over the alphabet, and at the 
right letters the raps would come. Or I would ask for a definite number of 
raps, and they would come. Or for series of raps in some defined rhythmical 
progression, and they would come. Nor was this all. Madame Blavatsky 
would sometimes put her hands, or one only, on someone else's head, and 
make the raps come, audibly to an attentive listener and perceptibly to the 
person touched, who would feel each little shock exactly as if he were taking 
sparks off the conductor of an electrical machine.  
At a later stage of my inquiries I obtained raps under better circumstances 
again than these- namely, without contact between the object on which they 
were produced and Madame Blavatsky's hands at all. This was at Simla in 
the summer of last year (1880), but I may as well anticipate a little as far as 
the raps are concerned. At Simla Madame Blavatsky used to produce the 
raps on a little table set in the midst of an attentive group, with no one 
touching it at all. After starting it, or of charging it with some influence by 
resting her hands on it for a few moments, she would hold one about a foot 
above it and make mesmeric passes at it, at each of which the table would 
yield the familiar sound. Nor was this done only at our own house with our 
own tables. The same thing would be done at friends houses, to which 
Madame Blavatsky accompanied us. And a further development of the head 
experiment was this: It was found to be possible for several persons to feel 
the same rap simultaneously. Four or five persons used sometimes to put 
their hands in a pile, one on another on a table; then Madame Blavatsky 
would put hers on the top of the pile and cause a current, of whatever it is 
which produces the sound, to pass through the whole series of hands, felt by 
each simultaneously, and record itself in a rap on the table beneath. Anyone 
who has ever taken part in forming such a pile of hands must feel as to some 
of the hypotheses concerning the raps that have been put forward in the 
Indian papers by determined sceptics- hard-headed persons not to be taken 
in- to the effect that the raps are produced by Madame Blavatsky's 
thumbnails or by the cracking of some joint- that such hypotheses are rather 
idiotic.  
Summing up the argument in language which I used in a letter written at the 
time, it stands as follows; " Madame Blavatsky puts her hands on a table and 
raps are heard on it. Some wiseacre suggests she does it with her thumbnails; 
she puts only one hand on the table; the raps comes still. Does she conceal 
any artifice under her hand? She lifts her hand from the table altogether, and 
merely holding it in the air above, the raps still come. Has she done anything 
to the table? She puts her hand on a windowpane, on a picture frame, on a 
dozen different places about the room in succession, and from each in turn 
come the mysterious raps. Is the house where she stays with her own 
particular friends about her prepared all over? She goes to half a dozen other 
houses at Simla and produces raps at them all. Do the raps really come from 
somewhere else than where they seem to come from-are they perhaps 
ventriloquism ? She puts her hand on your head, and from the motionless 
fingers you feel something which resembles a minute series of electric shocks, 
and an attentive listener beside you will hear them producing little raps on 
your skull. Are you telling a lie when you say you feel the shocks ? Half a 
dozen people put their hands one on top of the other in a pile on the table ; 
Madame Blavatsky puts hers on the top of all, and each person feels the little 
throbs pass through, and hears them record themselves in faint raps on the 
table on which the pile of hands is resting. When a person has seen all these 
experiments many times, as I have, what impression do you think is made on 
his mind by a person who says. There is nothing in raps but conjuring- 
Maskelyne and Cooke can do them for £10 a night . Maskelyne and Cooke 
cannot do them for £10 a night nor for ten lakhs a night under the 
circumstances I describe."  
The raps even as I heard them during the first visit that Madame Blavatsky 
paid us at Allahabad, gave me a complete assurance that she was in 
possession of some faculties of an abnormal character. And this assurance 
lent a credibility, that would not otherwise have belonged to them, to one or 
two phenomena of a different kind which also occurred at that time, the 
conditions of which wore not complete enough to make them worth recording 
here. But it was mortifying to approach no nearer to absolute certitude 
concerning the questions in which we were really interested- namely, 
whether there did indeed exist men with the wonderful powers ascribed to 
the adepts, and whether in this way it was possible for human creatures to 
obtain positive knowledge concerning the characteristics of their own 
spiritual nature. It must be remembered that Madame Blavatsky was 
preaching no specific doctrine on this subject. What she told us about the 
adepts and her own initiation was elicited by questions. Theosophy, in which 
she did seek to interest all her friends, did not proclaim any specific belief on 
the subject. It simply recommended the theory that humanity should be 
regarded as a Universal Brotherhood in which each person should study the 
truth as regards spiritual things, freed from the prepossessions of any specific 
religious dogma. But although her attitude, as regards the whole subject, put 
her under no moral obligation to prove the reality of occultism, her 
conversation and her book, " Isis Unveiled," disclosed a view of things which 
one naturally desired to explore further; and it was tantalising to feel that 
she could, and yet could not give us the final proofs we so much desired to 
have, that her occult training really had invested her with powers over 
material things of a kind which, if one could but feel sure they were actually 
in her possession, would utterly shatter the primary foundations of 
materialistic philosophy.  
One conviction we felt had been fully attained. This was the conviction of her 
own good faith. It is disagreeable merely to recognise that this can be 
impugned; but this has been done in Indiana so recklessly and cruelly by 
people who take up an attitude of hostility to the views with which she is 
identified, that it would be affectation to pass the question by. On the other 
hand, it would be too great a concession to an ignoble attack to go minutely 
over the evidence of her honesty of character with which my intimacy with 
Madame Blavatsky has gradually supplied me. At various times she has been 
a guest of ours for periods now amounting in all to more than three months 
out of nearly two years. To any impartial intelligence it will be manifest that, 
under these circumstances, I must have been able to form a better opinion 
concerning her real character than can possibly be derived from the crude 
observations of persons who have perhaps met her once or twice. I am not, of 
course, attributing any scientific value to this sort of testimony as accrediting 
the abnormal character of phenomena she may be concerned in producing. 
With such a mighty problem at stake as the trustworthiness of the 
fundamental theories of modern physical science, it is impossible to proceed 
by any other but scientific modes of investigation. In any experiments I have 
tried I have always been careful to exclude, not merely the probability, but 
the possibility of trickery; and where it has been impossible to secure the 
proper conditions, I have not allowed the results of the experiment to enter 
into the sum total of my conclusions. But, in its place, it seems only right- 
only a slight attempt to redress the scandalous wrong which, as far as mere 
insult and slander can do a wrong, has been done to a very high-minded and 
perfectly honourable woman - to record the certainty at which in progress of 
time both my wife and myself arrived, that Madame Blavatsky is a lady of 
absolutely upright nature, who has sacrificed, not merely rank and fortune, 
but all thought of personal welfare or comfort in any shape, from enthusiasm 
for occult studies in the first instance, and latterly for the special task she 
has taken in hand as an initiate in, if relatively a humble member of, the 
great occult fraternity- the direction of the Theosophical Society.  
Besides the production of the raps one other phenomenon had been conceded 
to us during Madame Blavatsky's first visit. We had gone with her to Benares 
for a few days, and were studying at a house lent to us by the Maharajah of 
Vizianagram - a big, bare, comfortless abode as judged by European 
standards-in the central hall of which we were sitting one evening after 
dinner. Suddenly three or four flowers-cut roses-fell in the midst of us- just as 
such things sometimes fall in the dark at spiritual seances. But in this case 
there were several lamps and candles in the room. The ceiling of the hall 
consisted simply of the solid, bare, painted rafters and boards that supported 
the flat cement roof of the building. The phenomenon was so wholly 
unexpected-as unexpected, I am given to understand, by Madame Blavatsky, 
sitting in an armchair reading at the time, as by the rest of us- that it lost 
some of the effect it would otherwise have had on our minds. If one could 
have been told a moment beforehand " now some flowers are going to fall", so 
that we could have looked up and seen them suddenly appear in the air above 
our heads, then the impressive effect of an incident so violently out of the 
common order of things would have been very great. Even as it was, the 
incident has always remained for those who witnessed it one of the stages on 
their road to a conviction of the reality of occult powers. Persons to whom it is 
merely related cannot be expected to rely upon it to any great extent. They 
will naturally ask various questions as to the construction of the room, who 
inhabited the house, etc., and even when all these questions had been 
answered, as they truthfully could be in a manner which would shut out any 
hypothesis by means of which the fall of the flowers could be explainable by 
any conjuring trick, there would still be an uncomfortable suspicion left in 
the questioner's mind as to the completeness of the explanation given. It 
might hardly have been worth while to bring the incident on to the present 
record at all, but for the opportunity it affords me of pointing out that the 
phenomena produced in Madame Blavatsky's presence need not necessarily 
be of her producing.  
Corning now to details in connection with some of the larger mysteries of 
occultism, I am oppressed by the difficulty of leading up to a statement of 
what I know now to be facts-as absolute facts as Charing Cross-which shall, 
nevertheless, be gradual enough not to shock the understanding of people 
absolutely unused to any but the ordinary grooves of thought as regards 
physical phenomena. None the less is it true that any "Brother," as the 
adepts in occultism are familiarly referred to, who may have been seized with 
the impulse to bestow on our party at Benares the little surprise described 
above, may have been in Tibet or in the South of India, or anywhere else in 
the world at the time, and yet just as able to make the roses fall as if he had 
been in the room with us. I have spoken already of the adept's power of being 
present " in spirit " as we should say, " in astral body " as an occultist would 
say, at any distant place in the flash of a moment at will. So present, he can 
exercise in that distant place some of the psychological powers which he 
possesses, as completely as he can exercise them in physical body wherever 
he may actually be, as we understand the expression. I am not pretending to 
give an explanation of how he produces this or that result, nor for a moment 
hinting that I know. I am recording merely the certain fact that various 
occult results have been accomplished in my presence, and explaining as 
much about them as I have been able to find out. But at all events it has long 
since become quite plain to me, that wherever Madame Blavatsky is, there 
the Brothers, wherever they may be, can and constantly do produce 
phenomena of the most overwhelming sort, with the production of which she 
herself has little or nothing to do. In reference, indeed, to any phenomenon 
occurring in her presence, it must be remembered that one can never have 
any exact knowledge as to how far her own powers may have been employed, 
or how far she may have been " helped," or whether she has not been quite 
uninfluential in the production of the result. Precise explanations of this kind 
are quite contrary to the rules of occultism- which, it must always be 
remembered, is not trying to convince the world of its existence. In this 
volume I am trying to convince the world of its existence, but that is another 
matter altogether. Anyone who wishes to know how the truth really stands 
can only take up the position of a seeker of truth. He is not a judge before 
whom occultism comes to plead for credibility. It is useless, therefore, to 
quarrel with the observations we are enabled to make on the ground that 
they are not of the kind one would best like to make. The question is whether 
they yield data on which conclusions may safely rest.  
And another consideration claims treatment in connexion with the character 
of the observations which, so far, I have been enabled to make-that is to say, 
in connexion with any search for proof of occult power as regards physical 
phenomena which but for such agency would be miraculous. I can foresee 
that, in spite of the abject stupidity of the remark, many people will urge that 
the force of the experiments with which I have had to deal is vitiated because 
they relate to phenomena which have a certain superficial resemblance to 
conjuring tricks. Of course this ensues from the fact that conjuring tricks all 
aim at achieving a certain superficial resemblance to occult phenomena. Let 
any reader, whatever his present frame of mind on the subject may be, 
assume for a moment that he has seen reason to conceive that there may be 
an occult fraternity in existence wielding strange powers over natural forces 
as yet unknown to ordinary humanity; that this fraternity is bound by rules 
which cramp the manifestation of these powers, but do not absolutely 
prohibit it; and then let him propose some comparatively small but 
scientifically convincing tests which he could ask to have conceded to him as 
a proof of the reality of some part, at all events, of these powers: it will be 
found that it is impossible to propose any such test that does not bear a 
certain superficial resemblance to a conjuring trick. But this will not 
necessarily impair the value of the test for people capable of dealing with 
those characteristics of experiments that are not superficial.  
The gulf of difference which is really to be observed lying between any of the 
occult phenomena I shall have to describe presently and a conjuring trick 
which might imitate it, is due to the fact that the conditions would be utterly 
unlike. The conjuror would work in his own stage, or in a prepared room. The 
most remarkable of the phenomena I have had in the presence of Madame 
Blavatsky have taken place away out of doors in fortuitously chosen places in 
the woods and on the hills. The conjuror is assisted by any required number 
of confederates behind his scenes. Madame Blavatsky comes a stranger to 
Simla, and is a guest in my own house, under my own observation, during the 
whole of her visit. The conjuror is paid to incur the expenses of accomplishing 
this or that deception of the senses. Madame Blavatsky is, what I have 
already explained, a lady of honourable character, instrumental in helping 
her friends - at their earnest desire wherever phenomena are produced at all
to see some manifestation of the powers in the acquisition of which (instead 
of earning money by them as the conjuror does with his) she has sacrificed 
everything the world generally holds dear- station, and so forth, 
immeasurably above that to which any conjuror or any impostor could aspire. 
Pursuing Madame Blavatsky with injurious suspicions, persons who resent 
the occult hypothesis will constantly forget the dictates of common sense in 
overlooking these considerations.  
About the beginning of September, 1880, Madame Blavatsky came to Simla 
as our guest, and in the course of the following six weeks various phenomena 
occurred, which became the talk of all Anglo-India for a time, and gave rise to 
some excited feeling on the part of persons who warmly espoused the theory 
that they must be the result of imposture. It soon became apparent to us that 
whatever might have been the nature of the restrictions which operated the 
previous winter at Allahabad to prevent our guest from displaying more than 
the very least of her powers, these restrictions were now less operative than 
before. We were soon introduced to a phenomenon we had not been treated to 
previously. By some modification of the force employed to produce the sound 
of raps on any object, Madame Blavatsky can produce in the air, without the 
intermediation of any solid object whatever, the sound of a silvery bell
sometimes a chime or little run of three or four bells on different notes. We 
had often heard about these bells, but had never heard them produced before. 
They were produced for us for the first time one evening after dinner while 
we were still sitting round the table, several times in , succession in the air 
over our heads, and in one instance instead of the single bell-sound there 
came one of the chimes of which I speak. Later on I heard them on scores of 
occasions and in all sorts of different places-in the open air and at different 
houses where Madame Blavatsky went from time to time. As before with the 
raps, there is no hypothesis in the case of the bells which can be framed by an 
adherent of the imposture theory which does not break down on a comparison 
of the different occasions and conditions under which I have heard them 
produced. Indeed, the theory of imposture is one which in the matter of the 
bells has only one narrow conjecture to rest on. Unlike the sound of a rap, 
which in the ordinary way could be produced by many different methods --so 
that, to be sure any given example of such a sound is not produced by 
ordinary means, one has to procure its repetition under a great variety of 
conditions-the sound of a bell can only be made, physically, in a few ways. 
You must have a bell, or some sonorous object in the nature of a bell, to make 
it with. Now, when sitting in a well lighted room, and attentively watching, 
you get the sound of a bell up above your heads where there is no physical 
bell to yield it- what are the hypotheses which can attribute the result to 
trickery. Is the sound really produced outside the room altogether by some 
agent or apparatus in another. First of all no rational person who had heard 
this sound would advance that theory, because the sound itself is 
incompatible with the idea. It is never loud- at least I have never heard it 
very loud- but it is always clear and distinct to a remarkable extent. If you 
lightly strike the edge of a thin claret glass with a knife you may get a sound 
which it would be difficult to persuade anyone had come from another room; 
but the occult bell-sound is like that, only purer and clearer, with no sub
sound of jarring in it whatever. Independently of this, I have, as I say, heard 
the sound in the open air produced up in the sky in the stillness of evening. 
In rooms it has not always been overhead, but sometimes down on the ground 
amongst the feet of a group of persons listening for it. Again, on one occasion, 
when it had been produced two or three times in the drawing-room of a 
friend's house where we had all been dining, one gentlemen of the party went 
back to the dining-room two rooms off, to get a finger glass with which to 
make a sound for the occult bells to repeat- a familiar form of the experiment. 
While by himself in the dining-room he heard one of the bell-sounds produced 
near him, though Madame Blavatsky had remained in the drawing-room. 
This example of the phenomenon satisfactorily disposed of the theory, absurd 
in itself for persons who frequently heard the bells in all manner of places, 
that Madame Blavatsky carried some apparatus about her with which to 
produce the sound. As for the notion of confederacy, that is disposed of by the 
fact that I have repeatedly heard the sounds when out walking beside 
Madame Blavatsky's jampan with no other person near us but the jampanees 
carrying it.  
The bell-sounds are not mere sportive illustrations of the properties of the 
currents which- are set in action to produce them. They serve the direct, 
practical purpose among occultists of a telegraphic call-bell. It appears that 
when trained occultists are concerned, so that the mysterious magnetic 
connection, whatever it may be, which enables them to communicate ideas is 
once established, they can produce the bell-sounds at any distance in the 
neighbourhood of the fellow-initiate whose attention they wish to attract. I 
have repeatedly heard Madame Blavatsky called in this way, when our own 
little party being alone some evening, we have all been quietly reading. A 
little " ting " would suddenly sound, and Madame Blavatsky would get up 
and go to her room to attend to whatever occult business may have been the 
motive of her summons. A very pretty illustration of the sound, as thus 
produced by some brother-initiate at a distance, was afforded one evening 
under these circumstances. A lady, a guest at another house in Simla, had 
been dining with us, when about eleven o'clock I received a note from her 
host, enclosing a letter which he asked me to get Madame Blavatsky to send 
on by occult means to a certain member of the great fraternity to whom both 
he and I had been writing. I shall explain the circumstances of this 
correspondence more fully later on. We were all anxious to know at once- 
before the lady with us that evening returned up the hill, so that she could 
take back word to her host- whether the letter could be sent; but Madame 
Blavatsky declared that her own powers would not enable her to perform the 
feat. The question was whether a certain person, a half-developed brother 
then in the neighbourhood of Simla, would give the necessary help. Madame 
Blavatsky said she would see if she could " find him," and taking the letter in 
her hands, she went out into the veranda, where we all followed her. Leaning 
on the balustrade, and looking over the wide sweep of the Simla valley, she 
remained for a few minutes perfectly motionless and silent, as we all were; 
and the night was far enough advanced for all commonplace sounds to have 
settled down, so that the stillness was perfect. Suddenly, in the air before us, 
there sounded the clear note of an occult-bell. " All right," cried Madame, " he 
will take it." And duly taken the letter was shortly afterwards. But the 
phenomenon involved in its transmission will be better introduced to the 
reader in connection with other examples.  
I come now to a series of incidents which exhibit occult power in a more 
striking light than any of those yet described. To a scientific mind, indeed, 
the production of sounds by means of a force unknown to ordinary science 
should be as clear a proof that the power in question is a power, as the more 
sensational phenomena which have to do with the transmission of solid 
objects by occult agency. The sound can only reach our ears by the vibration 
of air, and to set up the smallest undulation of air as the effect of a thought 
will appear to the ordinary understanding as no less outrageous an 
impossibility than the uprooting of a tree in a similar way. Still there are 
degrees in wonderfulness which the feelings recognise even if such 
distinctions are irrational.  
The first incident of the kind which I now take up is not one which would in 
itself be a complete proof of anything for an outsider. I describe it rather for 
the benefit of readers who may be, either through spiritualistic experiences or 
in any other way, already alive to the possibility of phenomena as such, and 
interested rather in experiments which may throw light on their genesis than 
in mere texts. Managed a little better, the occurrence now to be dealt with 
would have been a beautiful test ; but Madame Blavatsky, left to herself in 
such matters, is always the worst devisor of tests imaginable. Utterly out of 
sympathy with the positive and incredulous temperament; engaged all her 
life in the development amongst Asiatic mystics of the creative rather than 
the critical faculties, she never can follow the intricate suspicions with which 
the European observer approaches the consideration of the marvellous in its 
simplest forms. The marvellous, in forms so stupendously marvellous that 
they almost elude the grasp of ordinary conceptions, has been the daily food 
of her life for a great number of years, and it is easy to realise that, for her, 
the jealous distrust with which ordinary people hunt round the slightest 
manifestation of occult force to find any loophole through which a suspicion of 
fraud may creep, as no less tiresome and stupid, then the ordinary person 
conceives the too credulous spirit to be.  
About the end of September my wife went one afternoon with Madame 
Blavatsky to the top of a neighbouring hill. They were only accompanied by 
one other friend. I was not present myself on this occasion. While there 
Madame Blavatsky asked my wife, in a joking way, what was her heart's 
desire. She said at random and on the spur or the moment, " to get a note 
from one of the Brothers." Madame Blavatsky took from her pocket a piece of 
blank pink paper that had been torn off a note received that day. Folding this 
up into a small compass she took it to the edge of the hill, held it up for a 
moment or two between her hands and returned saying that it was gone. She 
presently, after communicating mentally by her own occult methods with the 
distant Brother, said he asked where my wife would have the letter. At first 
she said she should like it to come fluttering down into her lap, but some 
conversation ensued as to whether this would be the best way to get it, and 
ultimately it was decided that she should find it in a certain tree. Here, of 
course, a mistake was made which opens the door to the suspicions of 
resolutely disbelieving persons. It will be supposed that Madame Blavatsky 
had some reasons of her own for wishing the tree chosen. For readers who 
favour that conjecture after all that has gone before, it is only necessary to 
repeat that the present story is being told not as a proof, but as an incident.  
At first Madame Blavatsky seems to have made a mistake as to the 
description of the tree ,which the distant Brother was indicating as that in 
which he was going to put the note, and with some trouble my wife scrambled 
on to the lower branch of a bare and leafless trunk on which nothing could be 
found. Madame then again got into communication with the Brother and 
ascertained her mistake. Into another tree at a little distance, which neither 
Madame nor the one other person present had approached, my wife now 
climbed a few feet and looked all round among the branches. At first she saw 
nothing, but then, turning back her head without moving from the position 
she had taken up, she saw on a twig immediately before her face- where a 
moment previously there had been nothing but leaves-a little pink note. This 
was stuck on to the stalk of a leaf that had been quite freshly torn off, for the 
stalk was still green and moist- not withered as it would have been if the leaf 
had been torn off for any length of time. The note was found to contain these 
few words: " I have been asked to leave a note here for you. What can I do for 
you?", It was signed by some Tibetan characters. The pink paper on which it 
was written appeared to be the same which Madame Blavatsky had taken 
blank from her pocket shortly before.  
How was it transmitted first to the Brother who wrote upon it and then back 
again to the top of our hill ? not to speak of the mystery of its attachment to 
the tree in the way described. So far as I can frame conjectures on this 
subject, it would be premature to set them forth in detail till I have gone 
more fully into the facts observed. It is no use to discuss the way the wings of 
flying-fish are made for people who will not believe in the reality of flying fish 
at all, and refuse to accept phenomena less guaranteed by orthodoxy than 
Pharaoh's chariot wheels.  
I come now to the incidents of a very remarkable day. The day before, I 
should explain, we started on a little expedition which turned out a coup 
manqué, though, but for some tiresome mishaps, it might have led, we 
afterwards had reason to think, to some very interesting results. We mistook 
our way to a place of which Madame Blavatsky had received an imperfect 
description- or a description she imperfectly understood- in an occult 
conversation with one of the Brothers then actually passing through Simla. 
Had we gone the right way that day we might have had the good fortune of 
meeting him, for he stayed one night at a certain old Tibetan temple, or rest
house, such as is often found about the Himalayas, and which the blind 
apathy of commonplace English people leads them to regard as of no 
particular interest or importance. Madame Blavatsky was wholly 
unacquainted with Simla, and the account she gave us of the place she 
wanted to go to led us to think she meant a different place. We started, and 
for a long time Madame declared that we must be going in the right direction 
because she felt certain currents. Afterwards it appeared that the road to the 
place we were making for, and to that for which we ought to have made, were 
coincident for a considerable distance ; but a slight divergence at one point 
carried us into a wholly wrong system of hill-paths. Eventually Madame 
utterly lost her scent: we tried back; we who knew Simla discussed its 
topography and wondered where it could be she wanted to get to, but all to no 
purpose. We launched ourselves down a hillside where Madame declared she 
once more felt the missing current; but occult currents may flow where 
travellers cannot pass, and when we attempted this descent. I knew the case 
was desperate. After a while the expedition had to be abandoned, and we 
went home much disappointed.  
Why, some one may ask, could not the omniscient Brother feel that Madame 
was going wrong, and direct us properly in time ? I say this question will be 
asked, because I know from experience that people unused to the subject will 
not bear in mind the relations of the Brothers to such inquirers as ourselves. 
In this case, for example, the situation was not one in which the Brother in 
question was anxiously waiting to prove his existence to a jury of intelligent 
Englishmen. We can learn so little about the daily life of an adept in 
occultism, that we who are uninitiated can tell very little about the interests 
that really engage his attention; but we can find out this much - that his 
attention is constantly engaged on interests connected with his own work, 
and the gratification of the curiosity concerning occult matters of persons who 
are not regular students of occultism forms no part of that work at all. On the 
contrary, unless under very exceptional conditions, he is even forbidden to 
make any concessions whatever to such curiosity. In the case in point the 
course of events may probably have been something of this kind :-Madame 
Blavatsky perceived by her own occult tentacle that one of her illustrious 
friends was in the neighbourhood. She immediately - having a sincere desire 
to oblige us- may have asked him whether she might bring us to see him. 
Probably he would regard any such request very much as the astronomer 
royal might regard the request of a friend to bring a party of ladies to look 
through his telescopes; but none the less he might say, to please his half
fledged " brother " in occultism, Madame Blavatsky, " Very well, bring them, 
if you like: I am in such and such a place." And then he would go on with his 
work, remembering afterwards that the intended visit had never been paid, 
and perhaps turning an occult perception in the direction of the 
circumstances to ascertain what had happened.  
However this may have been, the expedition as first planned broke down. It 
was not with the hope of seeing the Brother, but on the general principle of 
hoping for something to turn up, that we arranged to go for a picnic the 
following day in another direction, which, as the first road had failed, we 
concluded to be probably the one we ought to have taken previously.  
We set out at the appointed time next morning. We were originally to have 
been a party of six, but a seventh person joined us just before we started. 
After going down the hill for some hours a place was chosen in the wood near 
the upper waterfall for our breakfast: the baskets that had been brought with 
us were unpacked, and, as usual at an Indian picnic, the servants at a little 
distance lighted a fire and set to work to make tea and coffee. Concerning 
this some joking arose over the fact that we had one cup and saucer too few, 
on account of the seventh person who joined us at starting, and some one 
laughingly asked Madame Blavatsky to create another cup and saucer. There 
was no set purpose in the proposal at first, but when Madame Blavatsky said 
it would be very difficult, but that if we liked she would try, attention was of 
course at once arrested. Madame Blavatsky, as usual, held mental 
conversation with one of the Brothers, and then wandered a little about in 
the immediate neighbourhood of where we were sitting- that is to say, within 
a radius of half-a-dozen to a dozen yards from our picnic cloth- I closely 
following, waiting to see what would happen. Then she marked a spot on the 
ground, and called to one of the gentlemen of the party to bring a knife to dig 
with. The place chosen was the edge of a little slope covered with thick weeds 
and grass and shrubby undergrowth. The gentleman with the knife-let us call 
him X-------------- as I shall have to refer to him afterwards- tore up these in 
the first place with some difficulty, as the roots were tough and closely 
interlaced. Cutting then into the matted roots and earth with the knife, and 
pulling away the débris with his hands, he came at last, on the edge of 
something white, which turned out, as it was completely excavated, to be the 
required cup. A corresponding saucer was also found after a little more 
digging. Both objects were in among the roots which spread everywhere 
through the ground, so that it seemed as if the roots were growing round 
them. The cup and saucer both corresponded exactly, as regards their 
pattern, with those that had been brought to the picnic, and constituted a 
seventh cup and saucer when brought back to where we were to have 
breakfast. I may as well add at once that afterwards, when we got home, my 
wife questioned our principal khitmutgar as to how many cups and saucers of 
that particular kind we possessed. In the progress of years, as the set was an 
old set, some had been broken, but the man at once said that nine teacups 
were left. When collected and counted that number was found to be right, 
without reckoning the excavated cup. That made ten, and as regards the 
pattern- it was one of a somewhat peculiar kind, bought a good many years 
previously in London, and which assuredly could never have been matched in 
Simla.  
Now, the notion that human beings can create material objects by the 
exercise of mere psychological power, will of course be revolting to the 
understandings of people to whom this whole subject is altogether strange. It 
is not making the idea much more acceptable to say that the cup and saucer 
appear in this case to have been " doubled " rather than created. The 
doubling of objects seems merely another kind of creation- creation according 
to a pattern. However, the facts, the occurrences of the morning I have 
described, were at all events exactly as I have related them. I have been 
careful as to the strict and minute truthfulness of every detail. If the 
phenomenon was not what it appeared to be- a most wonderful display of a 
power of which the modern scientific world has no comprehension whatever it 
was, of course, an elaborate fraud. That supposition, however, setting aside 
the moral impossibility from any point of view of assuming Madame 
Blavatsky capable of participation in such an imposture, will only bear to be 
talked of vaguely. As a way out of the dilemma it will not serve any person of 
ordinary intelligence who is aware of the facts, or who trusts my statement of 
them. The cup and saucer were assuredly dug up in the way I describe. If 
they were not deposited there by occult agency, they must have been buried 
there beforehand. Now, I have described the character of the ground from 
which they were dug up; assuredly that had been undisturbed for years by 
the character of the vegetation upon it. But it may be urged that from some 
other part of the sloping ground a sort of tunnel may have been excavated in 
the first instance through which the cup and saucer could have been thrust 
into the place where they were found. Now this theory is barely tenable as 
regards its physical possibility. If the tunnel had been big enough for the 
purpose it would have left traces which were not perceptible on the ground - 
which were not even discoverable when the ground was searched shortly 
afterwards with a view to that hypothesis. But the truth is that the theory of 
previous burial is morally untenable in view of the fact that the demand for 
the cup and saucer-of all the myriad things that might have been asked for
could never have been foreseen. It arose out of circumstances themselves the 
sport of the moment. If no extra person had joined us at the last moment the 
number of cups and saucers packed up by the servants would have been 
sufficient for our needs, and no attention would have been drawn to them. It 
was by the servants, without the knowledge of any guest, that the cups taken 
were chosen from others that might just as easily have been taken. Had the 
burial fraud been really perpetrated it would have been necessary to 
constrain us to choose the exact spot we did actually choose for the picnic with 
a view to the previous preparations, but the exact spot on which the ladies' 
jarnpans were deposited was chosen by myself in concert with the gentleman 
referred to above as X-, and it was within a few yards of this spot that the cup 
was found. Thus, leaving the other absurdities of the fraud hypothesis out of 
sight, who could be the agents employed to deposit the cup and saucer in the 
ground, and when did they perform the operation? Madame Blavatsky was 
under our roof the whole time from the previous evening when the picnic was 
determined on to the moment of starting. The one personal servant she had 
with her, a Bombay boy and a perfect stranger to Simla, was constantly about 
the house the previous evening, and from the first awakening of the 
household in the morning- and as it happened he spoke to my own bearer in 
the middle of the night, for I had been annoyed by a loft door which had been 
left unfastened, and was slamming in the wind, and called up servants to 
shut it. Madame Blavatsky it appears, thus awakened, had sent her servant, 
who always slept within call, to inquire what was the matter. Colonel Olcott, 
the President of the Theosophical Society, also a guest of ours at the time of 
which I am speaking, was certainly with us all the evening from the period of 
our return from the abortive expedition of the afternoon, and was also 
present at the start. To imagine that he spent the night in going four or five 
miles down a difficult khud through forest paths difficult to find, to bury a 
cup and saucer of a kind that we were not likely to take in a place we were 
not likely to go to, in order that in the exceedingly remote contingency of its 
being required for the perpetration of a hoax it might be there, would 
certainly be a somewhat extravagant conjecture. Another consideration- the 
destination for which we were making can be approached by two roads from 
opposite ends of the upper horseshoe of hills on which Simla stands. It was 
open to us to select either path, and certainly neither Madame Blavatsky nor 
Colonel Olcott had any share in the selection of that actually taken. Had we 
taken the other, we should never have come to the spot where we actually 
picnicked. 
The hypothesis of fraud in this affair is, as I have said, a defiance of common 
sense when worked out in any imaginable way. The extravagance of this 
explanation will, moreover, be seen to heighten as my narrative proceeds, 
and as the incident just related is compared with others which took place 
later. But I have not yet done with the incidents of the cup-morning.  
The gentleman called X ---------------------------had been a good deal with us 
during the week or two that had already elapsed since Madame Blavatsky's 
arrival. Like many of our friends, he had been greatly impressed with much 
he had seen in her presence. He had especially come to the conclusion that 
the Theosophical Society, in which she was interested, was exerting a good 
influence with the natives, a view which he had expressed more than once in 
warm language in my presence. He had declared his intention of joining this 
Society as I had done myself. Now, when the cup and saucer were found most 
of us who were present, X among the number, were greatly impressed, and in 
the conversation that ensued the idea arose that X-- might formally become a 
member of the Society then and there. I should not have taken part in this 
suggestion-I believe I originated it-if X ----------had not in cool blood decided, 
as I understood, to join the Society; in itself, moreover, a step which involved 
no responsibilities whatever, and simply indicated sympathy with the pursuit 
of occult knowledge and a general adhesion to broadly philanthropic doctrines 
of brotherly sentiments towards all humanity, irrespective of race and creed. 
This has to be explained in view of some little annoyances which followed.  
The proposal that X ------------should then and there formally join the Society 
was one with which he was quite ready to fall in. But some documents were 
required-a formal diploma, the gift of which to a new member should follow 
his initiation into certain little Masonic forms of recognition adopted in the 
Society. How could we get a diploma? Of course for the group then present a 
difficulty of this sort was merely another opportunity for the exercise of 
Madame's powers. Could she get a diploma brought to us by " magic?" After 
an occult conversation with the Brother who had then interested himself in 
our proceedings,Madame told us that the diploma would be forthcoming. She 
described the appearance it would present- a roll of paper wound round with 
an immense quantity of string, and then bound up in the leaves of a creeping 
plant. We should find it about in the woods where we were, and we could all 
look for it, but it would be X-, for whom it was intended, who would find it. 
Thus it fell out. We all searched about in the undergrowth or in the trees, 
wherever fancy prompted us to look, and it was X- who found the roll, done 
up as described.  
We had had our breakfast by this time. X- was formally" initiated " a member 
of the society by Colonel Olcott, and after a time we shifted our quarters to a 
lower place in the wood where there was the little Tibetan temple, or rest
house, which the Brother who had been passing through Simla- according to 
what Madame Blavatsky told us- had passed the previous night. We amused 
ourselves by examining- the little building inside and out, " bathing in the 
"good magnetism," as Madame Blavatsky expressed it, and then, lying on the 
grass outside, it occurred to someone that we wanted more coffee. The 
servants were told to prepare some, but it appeared that they had used up all 
our water. The water to be found in the streams near Simla is not of a kind to 
be used for purposes of this sort, and for a picnic, clean filtered water is 
always taken out in bottles, It appears that all the bottles in our baskets had 
been exhausted. This report was promptly verified by the servants by the 
exhibition of the empty bottles. The only thing to be done was to send to a 
brewery, the nearest building, about a mile oft, and ask for water. I wrote a 
pencil note and a coolie went off with the empty bottles. Time passed, and the 
coolie returned, to our great disgust, without the water. There had been no 
European left at the brewery that day (It was Sunday) to receive the note, 
and the coolie had stupidly plodded back with the empty bottles under his 
arm, instead of asking about and finding someone able to supply the required 
water.  
At this time our party was a little dispersed. X- and one of the other 
gentlemen had wandered off. No one of the remainder of the party was 
expecting fresh phenomena, when Madame suddenly got up, went over to the 
baskets, a dozen or twenty yards off, picked out a bottle- one of those, I 
believe, which had been brought back by the coolie empty-and came back to 
us holding it under the fold of her dress. Laughingly producing it it was found 
to be full of water. Just like a conjuring trick, will some one say ? Just like, 
except for the conditions. For such a conjuring trick, the conjurer defines the 
thing to be done. In our ease the want of water was as unforeseeable in the 
first instance as the want of the cup and saucer. The accident that left the 
brewery deserted by its Europeans, and the further accident that the coolie 
sent up for water should have been so abnormally stupid even for a coolie as 
to come back without, because there happened to be no European to take my 
note, were accidents but for which the opportunity for obtaining the water by 
occult agency could not have arisen. And those accidents supervened on the 
fundamental accident, improbable in itself, that our servants should have 
sent us out insufficiently supplied. That any bottle of water could have been 
left unnoticed at the bottom of the baskets is a suggestion that I can hardly 
imagine anyone present putting forward, for the servants had been found 
fault with for not bringing enough; they had just before had the baskets 
completely emptied out, and we had not submitted to the situation till we had 
been fully satisfied that there really was no more water left. Furthermore, I 
tasted the water in the bottle Madame Blavatsky produced, and it was not 
water of the same kind as that which came from our own filters. It was an 
earthy tasting water, unlike that of the modern Simla supply, but equally 
unlike, I may add, though in a different way, the offensive and discoloured 
water of the only stream flowing through those woods.  
How was it brought ? The how, of course, in all these cases is the great 
mystery which I am unable to explain except in general terms; but the 
impossibility of understanding the way adepts manipulate matter is one 
thing; the impossibility of denying that they do manipulate it in a manner 
which Western ignorance would describe as miraculous is another. The fact is 
there whether we can explain it or not. The rough, popular saying that :you 
cannot argue the hind leg off a cow, embodies a sound reflection ,which our 
prudent sceptics in matters of the kind with which I am now dealing are too 
apt to overlook. You cannot argue away a fact by contending that by the 
lights in your mind it ought to be something different from what it is. Still 
less can you argue away a mass of facts like those I am now recording by a 
series of extravagant and contradictory hypotheses about each in turn. What 
the determined disbeliever so often overlooks is that the scepticism which 
may show an acuteness of mind up to a certain point, reveals a deficient 
intelligence when adhered to in face of certain kinds of evidence.  
I remember when the phonograph was first invented, a scientific officer in 
the service of the Indian Government sent me an article he had written on 
the earliest accounts received of the instrument- to prove that the story must 
be a hoax, because the instrument described was scientifically impossible. He 
had worked out the times of vibrations required to reproduce the sounds and 
so on, and very intelligently argued that the alleged result was unattainable. 
But when phonographs in due time were imported into India, he did not 
continue to say they were impossible, and that there must be a man shut up 
in each machine, even though there did not seem to be room. That last is the 
attitude of the self-complacent people who get over the difficulty about the 
causation of occult and spiritual phenomena by denying, in face of the 
palpable experience of thousands- in face of the testimony in shelves- full of 
books that they do not read- that any such phenomena take place at all.  
X-, I should add here, afterwards changed his mind about the satisfactory 
character of the cup phenomena, and said he thought it vitiated as a scientific 
proof by the interposition of the theory that the cup and saucer might have 
been thrust up into their places by means of a tunnel cut from a lower part of 
the bank. I have discussed that hypothesis already, and mention the fact of 
X-'s change of opinion, which does not affect any of the circumstances I have 
narrated, merely to avoid the chance that readers, who may have heard or 
read about the Simla phenomenon in other pages, might think I was treating 
the change of opinion in question as something which it was worth while to 
disguise. And, indeed, the convictions which I ultimately attained were 
themselves the result of accumulated experiences I have yet to relate, so that 
I cannot tell how far my own certainty concerning the reality of occult power 
rests on anyone example that I have seen.  
It was on the evening of the day of the cup phenomenon that there occurred 
an incident destined to become the subject of very wide discussion in all the 
Anglo-Indian papers. This was the celebrated " brooch incident." The facts 
were related at the time in a little statement drawn up for publication, and 
signed by the nine persons who witnessed it. ! This statement will be laid 
before the reader directly, but as the comments to which it gave rise showed 
that it was too meagre to convey a full and accurate idea of what occurred, I 
will describe the course of events a little more fully. In doing this, I may use 
names with a certain freedom, as these were all appended to the published 
document.  
We, that is, my wife and myself with our guest, had gone up the hill to dine, 
in accordance with previous engagements, with Mr. and Mrs. Hume. We 
dined, a party of eleven, at a round table, and Madame Blavatsky, sitting 
next our host, tired and out of spirits as it happened, was unusually silent. 
During the beginning of dinner she scarcely said a word, Mr. Hume 
conversing chiefly with the lady on his other hand. It is a common trick at 
Indian dinner-tables to have little metal plate warmers with hot water before 
each guest, on which each plate served remains while in use. Such plate 
warmers were used on the evening I am describing, and over hers -in an 
interval during which plates had been removed- Madame Blavatsky was 
absently warming her hands. Now, the production of Madame Blavatsky's 
raps and bell-sounds we had noticed some- times seemed easier and the 
effects better when her hands had been warmed in this way ; so some one, 
seeing her engaged in warming them, asked her some question, hinting in an 
indirect way at phenomena. I was very far from expecting anything of the 
kind that evening, and Madame Blavatsky was equally far from intending to 
do anything herself or from expecting any display at the hands of one of the 
Brothers. So, merely in mockery, when asked why she was warming her 
hands, she enjoined us all to warm our hands too and see what would 
happen. Some of the people present actually did so, a few joking words 
passing among them. Then Mrs. Hume raised a little laugh by holding up her 
hands and saying, " But I have warmed my hands, what next". Now Madame 
Blavatsky, as I have said, was not in a mood for any occult performances at 
all, but it appears from what I learned afterwards that just at this moment, 
or immediately before, she suddenly perceived by those occult faculties of 
which mankind at large have no knowledge, that one of the Brothers was 
present " in astral body" invisible to the rest of us in the room. It was 
following his indications, therefore, that she acted in what followed; of course 
no one knew at the time that she had received any impulse in the matter 
external to herself. What took place as regards the surface of things was 
simply this: When Mrs. Hume said what I have set down above, and when 
the little laugh ensued, Madame Blavatsky put out her hand across the one 
person sitting between herself and Mrs. Hume and took one of that lady's 
hands, saying, " Well then, do you wish for anything in particular ? or as the 
lawyers say, " words to that effect." I cannot repeat the precise sentences 
spoken, nor can I say now exactly what Mrs. Hume first replied before she 
quite understood the situation; but this was made clear in a very few 
minutes. Some of the other people present catching this first, explained, " 
Think of something you would like to have brought to you; anything you like 
not wanted for any mere worldly motive ; is there anything you can think of 
that will be very difficult to get ?" Remarks of this sort were the only kind 
that were made in the short interval that elapsed between the remark by 
Mrs. Hume about having warmed her hands and the indication by her of the 
thing she had thought of. She said then that she had thought of something 
that would do. What was it ? An old brooch that her mother had given her 
long ago and that she had lost.  
Now, when this brooch, which was ultimately recovered by occult agency, as 
the rest of my story will show, came to be talked about, people said :- " Of 
course Madame Blavatsky led up the conversation to the particular thing she 
had arranged before- hand to produce." I have described all the conversation 
which took place on this subject, before the brooch was named. There was no 
conversation about the brooch or any other thing of the kind whatever. Five 
minutes before the brooch was named, there had been no idea in the mind of 
any person present that any phenomenon in the nature of finding any lost 
article, or of any other kind, indeed, was going to be performed. Nor while 
Mrs. Hume was going over in her mind the things she might ask for, did she 
speak any word indicating the direction her thoughts were taking.  
From the point of the story now reached the narrative published at the time 
tells it almost as fully as it need be told, and, at all events, with a simplicity 
that will assist the reader in grasping all the facts-so I reprint it here in full-  
" On Sunday, the 3rd of October, at Mr. Hume's house at Simla, there were 
present at dinner Mr. and Mrs. Hume, Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett, Mrs. Gordon, 
Mr. F. Hogg, Captain P.J. Maitland, Mr. Beatson, Mr. Davidson, Colonel 
Olcott, and Madame Blavatsky. Most of the persons present having recently 
seen many remarkable occurrences In Madame Blavatsky's presence, 
conversation turned on occult phenomena, and in the course of this Madame 
Blavatsky asked Mrs. Hume if there was anything she particularly wished 
for. Mrs. Hume at first hesitated, but in a short time said there was 
something she would particularly like to have brought her, namely, a small 
article of jewellery that she formerly possessed, but had given away to a 
person who had allowed it to pass out of her possession. Madame Blavatsky 
then said if she would fix the image of the article in question very definitely 
on her mind, she, Madame Blavatsky, would endeavour to procure It. Mrs. 
Hume then said that she vividly remembered the article, and described it as 
an old-fashioned breast brooch set round with pearls, With glass at the front, 
and the back made to contain hair. She then, on being asked, drew a rough 
sketch of the brooch.  
Madame Blavatsky then wrapped up a coin attached to her watch-chain In 
two cigarette papers, and put it in her dress, and said that she hoped the 
brooch might be obtained in the course of the evening. At the close of dinner 
she said to Mr. Hume that the paper in which the corn had been wrapped 
was gone. A little later, in the drawing room , she said that the brooch would 
not be brought into the house, but that it must be looked for in the garden, 
and then as the party went out accompanying her, she said she had 
clairvoyantly seen the brooch fall into a star-shaped bed of flowers. Mr. Hume 
led the way to such a bed in a distant part of the garden. A prolonged and 
careful search was made with lanterns, and eventually a small paper packet, 
consisting of two cigarette papers, was found amongst the leaves by Mrs. 
Sinnett. This being opened on the spot was found to contain a brooch exactly 
corresponding to the previous description, and which Mrs. Hume Identified 
as that which she had originally lost. None of the party, except Mr. and Mrs. 
Hume, had ever seen or heard of the brooch. Mr. Hume had not thought of it 
for years. Mrs. Hume had never spoken of it to anyone since she parted with 
it, nor had she, for long, even thought of it. She herself stated, after it was 
found, that it was only when Madame asked her whether there was anything 
she would like to have, that the remembrance of this brooch, the gift of her 
mother, flashed across her mind.  
" Mrs. Hume is not a spiritualist, and up to the time of the occurrence 
described was no believer either in occult phenomena or in Madame 
Blavatsky's powers. The conviction of all present was, that the occurrence 
was of an absolutely unimpeachable character, as an evidence of the truth of 
the possibility of occult phenomena. The brooch is unquestionably the one 
which Mrs, Hume lost. Even supposing, which is practically impossible, that 
the article, lost months before Mrs. Hume ever heard of Madame Blavatsky, 
and bearing no letters or other indication of original ownership, could have 
passed in a natural way into Madame Blavatsky's possession, even then she 
could not possibly have foreseen that it would be asked for, and Mrs. Hume 
herself had not given it a thought for months  
" This narrative, read over to the party, is signed by-  
A. 0. HUME, 
ALICE GORDON, 
M. A. HUME, 
P. J. :MAITLAND, 
FRED. R. HOGG, 
WM. DAVIDSON, 
A. P. SINNETT, 
STUART BEATSON. 
PATIENCE SINNETT. 
It is needless to state that when this narrative was published the nine 
persons above mentioned were assailed with torrents of ridicule, the effect of 
which, however; has not been in any single case to modify, in the smallest 
degree, the conviction which their signatures attested at the time, that the 
incident related was a perfectly conclusive proof of the reality of occult power. 
Floods of more or less imbecile criticism have been directed to show that the 
whole performance must have been a trick; and for many persons in India it 
is now, no doubt, an established explanation that Mrs. Hume was adroitly led 
up to ask for the particular article produced, by a quantity of preliminary talk 
about a feat which Madame Blavatsky specially went to the house to perform. 
A further established opinion with a certain section of the Indian public is, 
that the brooch which it appears Mrs. Hume gave to her daughter, and which 
her daughter lost, must have been got from that young lady about a year 
previously, when she passed through Bombay, where Madame Blavatsky was 
living, on her way to England. The young lady's testimony to the effect that 
she lost the brooch before she went to Bombay, or ever saw Madame 
Blavatsky, is a little feature of this hypothesis which its contented framers do 
not care to enquire into. Nor do persons who think the fact that the brooch 
once belonged to Mrs. Hume's daughter, and that this young lady once saw 
Madame Blavatsky at Bombay, sufficiently " suspicious " to wipe out the 
effect of the whole incident as described above- ever attempt, as far as I have 
discerned, to trace out a coherent chain of events as illuminated by their 
suspicions, or to compare these with the circumstances of the brooch's actual 
recovery. No care, however, to arrange the circumstances of an occult 
demonstration so that the possibility of fraud and delusion may really be 
excluded, is sufficient to exclude the imputation of this afterwards by people 
for whom any argument, however illogical really, is good enough to attack a 
strange idea with.  
As regards the witnesses of the brooch phenomenon the conditions were so 
perfect that when they were speculating as to the objections which might be 
raised by the public when the story should come to be told, they did not 
foresee either of the objections actually raised afterwards- the leading up in 
conversation theory, and the theory about Miss Hume having- put Madame 
Blavatsky in possession of the brooch. They knew that there had been no 
previous conversation at all about the brooch or any other proposed feat, that 
the idea about getting something Mrs. Hume should ask for, arose all in a 
moment, and that almost immediately afterwards, the brooch was named. As 
for Miss Hume having unconsciously contributed to the production of the 
phenomenon, it did not occur to the witnesses that this would be suggested, 
because they did not foresee that anyone could be so foolish as to shut their 
eyes to the important circumstances, to concentrate their attention entirely 
on one of quite minor importance. As the statement itself says, even 
supposing, which is practically impossible, that the brooch could have passed 
into Madame Blavatsky's possession in a natural way, she could not possibly 
have foreseen that it would have been asked for.  
The only conjectures the witnesses could frame to explain beforehand the 
tolerably certain result that the public at large would refuse to be convinced 
by the brooch incident, were that they might be regarded as misstating the 
facts and omitting some which the superior intelligence of their critics- as 
their critics would regard the matter- would see to upset the significance of 
the rest, or that Mrs. Hume must be a confederate. Now, this last conjecture, 
which will no doubt occur to readers in England, had only to be stated, to be, 
for the other persons concerned in the incident, one of the most amusing 
results to which it could give rise. We all knew Mrs. Hume to be as little 
predisposed towards any such a conspiracy as she was morally incapable of 
the wrongdoing it would involve.  
At one stage of the proceedings, moreover, we had considered the question as 
to the extent to which the conditions of the phenomenon were satisfactory. It 
had often happened that faults had eventually been found with Madame 
Blavatsky's phenomena by reason of some oversight in the conditions that 
had not been thought of at first. One of our friends, therefore, on the occasion 
I am describing, had suggested, after we rose from the dinner-table, that 
before going any further the company generally should be asked whether, if 
the brooch could be produced, that would under the circumstances be a 
satisfactory proof of occult agency in the matter. We carefully reviewed the 
matter in which the situation had been developed and we all came to the 
conclusion that the test , would be absolutely complete, and that on this 
occasion there was no weak place in the chain of the argument. Then it was 
that Madame Blavatsky said the brooch would be brought to the garden, and 
that we could go out and search for it.  
An interesting circumstance for those who had already watched some of the 
other phenomena I have described was this: The brooch, as stated above, was 
found wrapped up in two cigarette papers, and these, when examined in a 
full light in the house, were found still to bear the mark of the coin attached 
to Madame Blavatsky's watch chain, which had been wrapped up in them 
before they departed on their mysterious errand. They were thus identified 
for people who had got over the first stupendous difficulty of believing in the 
possibility of transporting material objects by occult agency as the same 
papers that had been seen by us at the dinner-table.  
The occult transmission of objects to a distance not being, "magic', 'as 
Western readers understand the word, is susceptible of some partial 
explanation even for ordinary readers, for whom the means by which the 
forces employed are manipulated must remain entirely mysterious. It is not 
contended that the currents which are made use of, convey the bodies 
transmitted in a solid mass just as they exist for the senses. The body, to be 
transmitted, is supposed first to be disintegrated, conveyed on the currents in 
infinitely minute particles, and then reintegrated at its destination. In the 
case of the brooch, the first thing to be done must have been to find it. This, 
however, would simply be a feat of clairvoyance- the scent of the object, so to 
speak, being taken up from the person who spoke of it and had once 
possessed it- and there is no clairvoyance of which the western world has any 
knowledge, comparable in its vivid intensity to the clairvoyance of an adept 
in occultism. Its resting- place thus discovered, the disintegration process 
would come into play, and the object desired would be conveyed to the place 
where the adept engaged with it would choose to have it deposited. The part 
played in the phenomenon by the cigarette papers would be this: In order 
that we might be able to find the brooch, it was necessary to connect it by an 
occult scent with Madame Blavatsky. The cigarette papers, which she always 
carried about with her, were thus impregnated with her magnetism, and 
taken from her by the Brother, left an occult trail behind them. Wrapped 
round the brooch, they conducted this trail to the required spot.  
The magnetisation of the cigarette papers always with her, enabled Madame 
Blavatsky to perform a little feat with them which was found by everyone for 
whom it was done an exceedingly complete bit of evidence ; though here again 
the superficial resemblance of the experiment to a conjuring trick misled the 
intelligence of ordinary persons who read about the incidents referred to in 
the newspapers. The feat itself may be most conveniently discussed by the 
quotation of three letters ,which appeared in the Pioneer of the 23rd of 
October, and were as follows ;-  
"Sir,  -The account of the discovery of Mrs. Hume's brooch has called forth several 
letters, and many questions have been asked, some of which I may answer on 
a future occasion, but I think it only right to first contribute further 
testimony to the occult powers possessed by Madame Blavatsky. In thus 
coming before the public, one must be prepared for ridicule, but it is a weapon 
which we who know something of these matters can well afford to despise. On 
Thursday last, at about half-past ten o'clock, I was sitting in Madame 
Blavatsky's room conversing with her, and in a casual way asked her if she 
would be able to send me anything by occult means when I returned to my 
home. She said "'No", and explained to me some of the laws under which she 
acts, one being that she must know the place and have been there- the more 
recently the better- in order to establish a magnetic current: She then 
recollected that she had been somewhere that morning, and after a moment's 
reflection remembered whose house it was she had visited.[ This house at 
which the cigarette was found was Mr. O'Meara's. He is quite willing that 
this should be stated. ]. She said she could send a cigarette there, if I would 
go at once to verify the fact. I of course, consented. I must here mention that I 
had seen her do this kind of thing once before; and the reason she gives for 
sending cigarettes is, that the paper and tobacco being always about her 
person, are highly magnetised, and therefore more amenable to her power, 
which she most emphatically declares is not super- natural, but merely the 
manifestation of laws unknown to us. To continue my story. She took out a 
cigarette paper and slowly tore oft a corner as zigzag as possible, I never 
taking my eyes off her hands. She gave me the corner, which I at once put 
into an envelope, and it never left my possession I can declare. She made the 
cigarette with the remainder of the paper, She then said she would try an 
experiment which might not succeed, but the failure would be of no 
consequence with me. She then most certainly put that cigarette into the fire, 
and I saw it burn, and I started at once to the gentleman's house, scarcely 
able to believe that I should find in the place indicated by her the counterpart 
of the cigarette paper I had with me ; but sure enough there it was, and, in 
the presence of the gentleman and his wife, I opened out the cigarette and 
found my corner piece fitted exactly. It would be useless to try and explain 
any theory in connection with these phenomena, and it would be 
unreasonable to expect anyone to believe in them, unless their own 
experience had proved the possibility of such wonders. All one asks or expects 
is, that a few of the more intelligent members of the community may be led to 
look into the vast amount of evidence now accumulated of the phenomena 
taking place all over Europe and America. It seems a pity that the majority 
should be in such utter ignorance of these facts; it is within the power of 
anyone visiting England to convince himself of their truth. 
ALICE GORDON  
"Sir, -I have been asked to give an account of a circumstance which took place in 
my presence on the 13th instant. On the evening of that day I was sitting 
alone with Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott in the drawing-room of Mr. 
Sinnett's house in Simla. After some conversation on various matters, 
Madame Blavatsky said she would like to try an experiment in a manner 
which had been suggested to her by Mr. Sinnett. She, therefore, took two 
cigarette papers from her pocket and marked on each of them a number of 
parallel lines in pencil. She then tore a piece off the end of each paper across 
the lines, and gave them to me. At that time Madame Blavatsky was sitting 
close to me, and I intently watched her proceedings, my eyes being not more 
than two feet from her hands. She declined to let me mark or tear the papers 
alleging that if handled by others they would become imbued with their 
personal magnetism, which would counterset her own. However, the torn 
pieces were handed directly to me, and I could not observe any opportunity 
for the substitution of other papers by sleight of hand. The genuineness or 
otherwise of the phenomena afterwards presented appears to rest on this 
point. The torn off pieces of the paper remained in my closed left hand until 
the conclusion of the experiment. Of the larger pieces Madame Blavatsky 
made two cigarettes, giving the first to me to hold while the other was being 
made up. I scrutinised this cigarette very attentively, in order to be able to 
recognise it afterwards. The cigarettes being finished, Madame Blavatsky 
stood up, and took them between her hands, which she rubbed together. After 
about twenty or thirty seconds, the grating noise of the paper, at first 
distinctly audible, ceased. She then said the current [The theory is that a 
current of what can only be called magnetism, can be made to convey objects, 
previously dissipated by the same force, to any distance, and in spite of the 
Intervention of any amount of matter.] Is passing round this end of the room, 
and I can only send them somewhere near here. A moment afterwards she 
said one had fallen on the piano, the other near that bracket. As I sat on a 
sofa with my back to the wall, the piano was opposite, and the bracket, 
supporting a few pieces of china, was to the right, between it and the door. 
Both were in full view across the rather narrow room. The top of the piano 
was covered with piles of music books, and it was among these Madame 
Blavatsky thought a cigarette would be found; The books were removed, one 
by one, by myself, but without seeing anything. I then opened the piano, and 
found a cigarette on a narrow shelf inside it. This cigarette I took out and 
recognised as the one I had held in my hand. The other was found in a 
covered cup on the bracket. Both cigarettes were still damp where -they had 
been moistened at the edges in the process of manufacture. I took the 
cigarettes to a table, without permitting them to be touched or even seen by 
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott. On being unrolled and smoothed out, 
the torn, jagged edges were found to fit exactly to the pieces that I had all 
this time retained in my hand. The pencil marks also corresponded. It would 
therefore appear that the papers were actually the same as those I had seen 
torn. Both the papers are still in my possession. It may be added that Colonel 
Olcott sat near me with his back to Madame Blavatsky during the 
experiment, and did not move till it was concluded.  
"P. J. MAITLAND, Captain."  
" Sir, - With reference to the correspondence now filling your columns, on the 
subject of Madame Blavatsky's recent manifestations, it may interest your 
readers if I record a striking incident which took place last week in my 
presence. I had occasion to call on Madame, and in the course of our 
interview she tore off a corner from a cigarette paper, asking me to hold the 
same, which I did. With the remainder of the paper she prepared a cigarette 
in the ordinary manner, and in a few moments caused this cigarette to 
disappear from her hands. We were sitting at the time in the drawing-room. I 
inquired if it were like]y to find this cigarette again, and after a short pause 
Madame requested me to accompany her into the dining-room, where the 
cigarette would be found on the top of a curtain hanging over the window. By 
means of a tab]e and a chair placed thereon, I was enabled with some 
difficulty to reach and take down a cigarette from the place indicated. This 
cigarette I opened, and found the paper to correspond exactly with that I had 
seen a few minutes before in the drawing-room. That is to say, the corner
piece, which I had retained in my possession, fitted exactly into the jagged 
edges of the torn paper in which the tobacco had been rolled. To the best of 
my belief, the test was as complete and satisfactory as any test can be. I 
refrain from giving my opinion as to the causes which produced the effect, 
feeling sure that your readers who take an interest in these phenomena will 
prefer exercising their own judgement in the matter. I merely give you an 
unvarnished statement of what I saw. I may be permitted to add I am not a 
member of the Theosophist Society, nor, so far as I know, am I biassed in 
favour of occult science, although a warm sympathiser with the proclaimed 
objects of the Society over which Colonel Olcott presides.  
" CHARLES FRANCIS MASSY."  
Of course, anyone familiar with conjuring will be aware that an imitation of 
this" trick " can be arranged by a person gifted with a little sleight of hand. 
You take two pieces of paper, and tear off a corner of both together, so that 
the jags of both are the same. You make a cigarette with one piece, and put it 
in the place where you mean to have it ultimately found. You then hold the 
other piece underneath the one you tear in presence of the spectator, slip in 
one of the already torn corners into his hand instead of that he sees you tear, 
make your cigarette with the other part of the original piece, dispose of that 
anyhow you please, and allow the prepared cigarette to be found. Other 
variations of the system may be readily imagined, and for persons who have 
not actually seen Madame Blavatsky do one of her cigarette feats it may be 
useless to point out that she does not do them as a conjuror would, and that 
the spectator, if he is gifted with ordinary common sense, can never have the 
faintest shadow of a doubt about the corner given to him being the corner 
torn off- a certainty which the pencil-marks upon it, drawn before his eyes, 
would enhance, if that were necessary. However, as I say, though experience 
shows me that the outsider is prone to regard the little cigarette phenomenon 
as ''suspicious," it has never failed to be regarded as convincing by the most 
acute people among those who have witnessed it. With all phenomena, 
however, stupidity on the part of the observer will defeat any attempt to 
reach his understanding, no matter how perfect the tests supplied.  
I realise this more fully now than at the time of which I am writing. Then I 
was chiefly anxious to get experiments arranged ,which should be really 
complete in their details and leave no opening for the suggestion even of 
imposture. It was "an uphill struggle first, because Madame Blavatsky was 
intractable and excitable as an experimentalist, and herself no more than the 
recipient of favours from the Brothers in reference to the greater phenomena. 
And it seemed to me conceivable that the Brothers might themselves not 
always realise precisely the frame of mind in which persons of European 
training approached the consideration of such miracles as these with which 
we were dealing, so that they did not always make sufficient allowance for 
the necessity of rendering their test phenomena quite perfect and 
unassailable in all minor details. I knew, of course, that they were not 
primarily anxious to convince the commonplace world of anything whatever; 
but still they frequently did assist Madame Blavatsky to produce phenomena 
that had no other motive except the production of an effect on the minds of 
people belonging to the outer world; and it seemed to me that under these 
circumstances they might just as well do something that would leave no room 
for the imputation even of any trickery.  
One day, therefore, I asked Madame Blavatsky whether if I wrote a letter to 
one of the Brothers explaining my views, she could get it delivered for me. I 
hardly thought this was probable, as I knew how very unapproachable the 
Brothers generally are; but as she said that at any rate she would try, I wrote 
a letter, addressing it " to the Unknown Brother," and gave it to her to see if 
any result would ensue. It was a happy inspiration that induced me to do 
this, for out of that small beginning has arisen the most interesting 
correspondence in which I have ever been privileged to engage- a 
correspondence which, I am happy to say, still promises to continue, and the 
existence of which, more than any experiences of phenomena which I have 
had, though the most wonderful of these are yet to be described, is the raison 
d'être of this little book.  
The idea I had specially in my mind when I wrote the letter above referred to, 
was that of all test phenomena one could wish for, the best would be the 
production in our presence in India of a copy of the London Times of that 
day's date. With such a piece of evidence in my hand, I argued, I would 
undertake to convert everybody in Simla who was capable of linking two 
ideas together, to a belief in the possibility of obtaining by occult agency 
physical results which were beyond the control of ordinary science. I am sorry 
that I have not kept copies of the letter itself nor of my own subsequent 
letters, as they would have helped to elucidate the replies in a convenient 
way; but I did not at the time foresee the developments to which they would 
give rise and, after all, the interest of the correspondence turns almost 
entirely on the letters I received: only in a very small degree on those I sent.  
A day or two elapsed before I heard anything of the fate of my letter, but 
Madame Blavatsky then informed me that I was to have an answer. I 
afterwards learned that she had not been able at first to find a Brother 
willing to receive the communication. Those whom she first applied to 
declined to be troubled with the matter. At last her psychological telegraph 
brought her a favourable answer from one of the Brothers with whom she had 
not for some time been in communication. He would take the letter and reply 
to it.  
Hearing this, I at once regretted that I had not written at greater length, 
arguing my view of the required concession more fully. I wrote again, 
therefore, without waiting for the actual receipt of the expected letter. 
A day or two after I found one evening on my writing-table the first letter 
sent me by my new correspondent. I may here explain, what I learned 
afterwards, that he was a native of the Punjab who was attracted to occult 
studies from his earliest boyhood. He was sent to Europe while still a youth 
at the intervention of a relative-himself an occultist- to be educated in 
Western knowledge, and since then has been fully initiated in the greater 
knowledge of the East. From the self complacent point of view of the ordinary 
European this will seem a strange reversal of the proper order of things, but I 
need not stop to examine that consideration now.  
My correspondent is known to me as the Mahatma Koot Hoomi.[See 
Appendix "C"] .This is his " Tibetan Mystic name " -occultists, it would seem, 
taking new names on initiation- a practice which has no doubt given rise to 
similar customs which we find perpetuated here and there in ceremonies of 
the Roman Catholic church.  
The letter I received began, in medias res, about the phenomenon I had 
professed. " Precisely," the Mahatma wrote, " because the test of the London 
newspaper would close the mouths of the sceptics," it was inadmissible. " See 
it in what light you will, the world is yet in its first stage of 
disenthralment...... hence unprepared. Very true we work by natural, not 
supernatural, means and laws. But as on the one hand science would find 
itself unable, in its present state, to account for the wonders given in its 
name, and on the other the ignorant masses would still be left to view the 
phenomenon in the light of a miracle, everyone who would thus be made a 
witness to the occurrence would be thrown off his balance, and the result 
would be deplorable. Believe me it would be so especially for yourself, who 
originated the idea, and for the devoted woman who so foolishly rushes into 
the wide, open door leading to notoriety. This door, though opened by so 
friendly a hand as yours, would prove very soon a trap- and a fatal one, 
indeed, for her. And such is not surely your object. ...Were we to accede to 
your desires know you really what consequences would follow in the trail of 
success ? The inexorable shadow which follows all human innovations moves 
on, yet few are they who are ever conscious of its approach and dangers. 
What are, then, they to expect who would offer the world an innovation 
which, owing to human ignorance, if believed in, will surely be attribute to 
those dark agencies the two-thirds of humanity believe in and dread as yet 
?.... The success of an attempt of such a kind as the one you propose must be 
calculated and based upon a thorough knowledge of the people around you. It 
depends entirely upon the social and moral conditions of the people in their 
bearing on these deepest and most mysterious questions which can stir the 
human mind- the deific powers in man and the possibilities contained in 
Nature. How many even of your best friends, of those who surround you, are 
more than superficially interested in these abstruse problems? You could 
count them upon the fingers of your right hand. Your race boasts of having 
liberated in their century the genius so long imprisoned in the narrow vase of 
dogmatism and intolerance- the genius of knowledge, wisdom, and free 
thought. It says that, in their turn, ignorant prejudice and religious bigotry, 
bottled up like the wicked djin of old, and sealed by the Solomons of science, 
rest at the bottom of the sea, and can never, escaping to the surface again, 
reign over the world as in the days of old: that the public mind is quite free, 
in short, and ready to accept any demonstrated truth. Ay, but is it verily so, 
my respected friend? Experimental knowledge does not quite date from 1662, 
when Bacon, Robert Boyle, and the. Bishop of Chester transformed under the 
royal charter their' invisible college' into a society for the promotion of 
experimental science. Ages before the Royal Society found itself becoming a 
reality upon the plan of the' Prophetic Scheme,' an innate longing for the 
hidden, a passionate love for, and the study of, Nature, had led men in every 
generation to try and fathom her secrets deeper than their neighbours did. 
Roma ante Romulum fuit is an axiom taught us in your English schools. The 
Vril of the Coming Race was the common property of races now extinct. And 
as the very existence of those gigantic ancestors of ours is now questioned- 
though in the Himavats, on the very territory belonging to you, we have a 
cave full of the skeletons of these giants-and their huge frames, when found, 
are invariably regarded as isolated freaks of Nature-so the Vril, or akas as we 
call it, is looked upon as an impossibility-a myth. And without a thorough 
knowledge of akas-its combinations and properties, how can science hope to 
account for such phenomena? We doubt not but the men of your science are 
open to conviction ; yet facts must be first demonstrated to them; they must 
first have become their own property, have proved amenable to their modes of 
investigation, before you find them ready to admit them as facts. If you but 
look into the preface to the Micrographia, you will find, in Hookes' 
suggestions, that the intimate relations of object were of less account in his 
eyes than their external operation on the senses, and Newton's fine 
discoveries found in him their greatest opponent. The modern Hookeses are 
many. Like this learned but ignorant man of old, your modern men of science 
are less anxious to suggest a physical connection of facts which might unlock 
for them many an occult force in Nature, as to provide a convenient 
classification of scientific experiments, so that the most essential quality of a 
hypothesis is, not that it should be true, but only plausible, in their opinion.  
" So far for science- as much as we know of it. As for human nature in general 
it is the same now as it was a million of years ago. Prejudice, based upon 
selfishness, a general unwillingness to give up an established order of things 
for new modes of life and thought - and occult study requires all that and 
much more- pride and stubborn resistance to truth, if it but upsets their 
previous notions of things- such are the characteristics of your age.........  
What, then, would be the results of the most astounding phenomena 
supposing we consented to have them produced? However successful, danger 
would be growing proportionately with success. No choice would soon remain 
but to go on, ever crescendo, or to fall in this endless struggle with prejudice 
and ignorance, killed by your own weapons. Test after test would be required, 
and would have to be furnished; every subsequent phenomenon expected to 
be more marvellous than the preceding one. Your daily remark is, that one 
cannot be expected to believe unless he becomes an eyewitness. Would the 
lifetime of a man suffice to satisfy the whole world of sceptics ? It may an an 
easy matter to increase the original number of believers at Simla to hundreds 
and thousands. But what of the hundreds of millions of those who could not 
be made eyewitnesses ? The ignorant, unable to grapple with the invisible 
operators, might some day vent their rage on the visible agents at work; the 
higher and educated classes would go on disbelieving, as ever, tearing you to 
shreds as before. In common with many, you blame us for our great secrecy. 
Yet we know something of human nature, for the experience of long 
centuries- ay, ages, has taught us. And we know that so long as science has 
anything to learn, and a shadow of religious dogmatism lingers in the hearts 
of the multitude, the world's prejudices have to be conquered step by step, not 
at a rush. As hoary antiquity had more than one Socrates, so the dim future 
will give birth to more than one martyr. Enfranchised Science 
contemptuously turned away her face from the Copernican opinion renewing 
the theories of Aristarchus Samius, who 'affirmeth that the earth moveth 
circularly about her own centre', years before the Church sought to sacrifice 
Galileo as a holocaust to the Bible. The ablest mathematician at the Court of 
Edward VI., Robert Recorde, was left to starve in jail by his colleagues, who 
laughed at his Castle of Knowledge, declaring his discoveries vain fantasies 
All this is old history, you will think. Verily so, but the chronicles of our 
modern days do not differ very essentially from their predecessors. And we 
have but to bear in mind the recent persecutions of mediums in England, the 
burning of supposed witches and sorcerers in South America, Russia, and the 
frontiers of Spain, to assure ourselves that the only salvation of the genuine 
proficient in occult sciences lies in the scepticism of the public: the charlatans 
and the jugglers are the natural shields of the adepts. The public safety is 
only ensured by our keeping secret the terrible weapons which might 
otherwise be used against it, and which, as you have been told, become 
deadly in the hands of the wicked and selfish."  
The remainder of the letter is concerned chiefly with personal matters, and 
need not be here reproduced. I shall, of course, throughout my quotations 
from letters, leave out passages which, specially addressed to myself, have no 
immediate bearing on the public argument. The reader must be fearful to 
remember, however, as I now most unequivocally affirm, that I shall in no 
case alter one syllable of the passages actually quoted. It is important to 
make this declaration very emphatically, because the more my readers may 
be acquainted with India, the less they will be willing to believe, except on 
the most positive testimony, that the letters from the Mahatma, as I now 
publish them, have been written by a native of India. That such is the fact, 
however, is beyond dispute.  
I replied to the letter above quoted at some length, arguing, if I remember 
rightly, that the European mind was less hopelessly intractable than Koot 
Hoomi represented it. His second letter was as follows :-  
" We will be at cross purposes in our correspondence until it has been made 
entirely plain that occult science has its own methods of research, as fixed 
and arbitrary as the methods of its antithesis, physical science, are in their 
way. If the latter has its dicta, so also have the former; and he who would 
cross the boundary of the unseen world can no more prescribe how he will 
proceed, than the traveller who tries to penetrate to the inner subterranean 
recesses of L'Hassa the Blessed could show the way to his guide. The 
mysteries never were, never can be, put within the reach of the general 
public, not, at least, until that longed-for day when our religious philosophy 
becomes universal. At no time have more than a scarcely appreciable 
minority of men possessed Nature's secret, though multitudes have witnessed 
the practical evidences of the possibility of their possession. The adept is the 
rare efflorescence of a generation of inquirers ; and to become one, he must 
obey the inward impulse of his soul, irrespective of the prudential 
considerations of worldly science or sagacity. Your desire is to be brought to 
communicate with one of us directly, without the agency of either Madame 
Blavatsky or any medium. Your idea would be, as I understand it, to obtain 
such communications, either by letter, as the present one, or by audible 
words, so as to be guided by one of us in the management, and principally in 
the instruction of the Society. You seek all this, and yet, as you say yourself, 
hitherto you have not found sufficient reasons to even give up your modes of 
life, directly hostile to such modes of communication. This is hardly 
reasonable. He who would lift up high the banner of mysticism and proclaim 
its reign near at hand must give the example to others. He must be the first 
to change his modes of life, and, regarding the study of the occult mysteries 
as the upper step in the ladder of knowledge, must loudly proclaim it such, 
despite exact science and the opposition of society. The 'kingdom of Heaven is 
obtained by force', say the Christian mystics. It is but with armed hand, and 
ready to either conquer or perish, that the modern mystic can hope to achieve 
his object.  
" My first answer covered, I believe, most of the questions contained in your 
second and even third letter. Having, then, expressed therein my opinion that 
the world in general was unripe for any too staggering proof of occult power, 
there but remains to deal with the isolated individuals who seek, like 
yourself, to penetrate behind the veil of matter into the "world of primal 
causes ---- i.e., we need only consider now the cases of yourself and Mr. -----." 
I should here explain that one of my friends at Simla, deeply interested with 
me in the progress of this investigation, had, on reading Koot Hoomi's first 
letter to me, addressed my correspondent himself. More favourably 
circumstanced than I, for such an enterprise, he had even proposed to make a 
complete sacrifice of his other pursuits, to pass away into any distant 
seclusion ,which might he appointed for the purpose, where he might, if 
accepted as a pupil in occultism, learn enough to return to the world armed 
with powers which would enable him to demonstrate the realities of spiritual 
development and the errors of modern materialism, and then devote his life 
to the task of combating modern incredulity and leading men to a practical 
comprehension of a better life. I resume the letter:-  
" This gentleman also has done me the great honour to address me by name, 
offering to me a few questions, and stating the conditions upon which he 
would be willing to work for us seriously. But your motives and aspirations 
being of diametrically opposite character, and hence leading to different 
results, I must reply to each of you separately. "  
'The first and chief consideration in determining us to accept or reject your 
offer lies in the inner motive which propels you to seek our instruction and, in 
a certain sense, our guidance; the latter in all cases under reserve, as I 
understand it, and therefore remaining a question independent of aught else. 
Now, what are your motives ? I may try to define them in their general 
aspects, leaving details for further consideration. They are-(l ) The desire to 
see positive and unimpeachable proofs that there really are forces in Nature 
of which science knows nothing; (2) The hope to appropriate them some day- 
the sooner the better, for you do not like to wait- so as to enable yourself ; (a) 
to demonstrate their existence to a few chosen Western minds; (b) to 
contemplate future life as an objective reality built upon the rock of 
knowledge, not of faith; and (c) to finally learn -most important this, among 
all your motives, perhaps, though the most occult and the best guarded- the 
whole truth about our lodges and ourselves; to get, in short, the positive 
assurance that the' Brothers,' of whom everyone hears so much and sees so 
little, are rare entities, not fictions of a disordered, hallucinated brain. Such, 
viewed in their best light, appear to us your motives for addressing me. And 
in the same spirit do I answer them, hoping that my sincerity will not be 
interpreted in a wrong way, or attributed to anything like an unfriendly 
spirit.  
" To our minds, then, these motives, sincere and worthy of every serious 
consideration from the worldly standpoint, appear selfish. (You have to 
pardon me what you might view as crudeness of language, if your desire is 
that which you really profess- to learn truth and get instruction from us who 
belong to quite a different world from the one you move in.) They are selfish, 
because you must be aware that the chief object of the Theosophical Society is 
not so much to gratify individual aspirations as to serve our fellowmen, and 
the real value of this term' selfish,' which may jar upon your ear, has a 
peculiar significance with us which it cannot have with you; therefore, to 
begin with, you must not accept it otherwise than in the former sense. 
Perhaps you will better appreciate our meaning when told that in our view 
the highest aspirations for the welfare of humanity become tainted with 
selfishness, if, in the mind of the philanthropist, there lurks the shadow of a 
desire for self-benefit, or a tendency to do injustice, even where these exist 
unconsciously to himself. Yet you have ever discussed but to put down, the 
idea of a Universal Brotherhood, questioned its usefulness, and advised to 
remodel the Theosophical Society on the principle of a college for the special 
study of occultism...  
" Having disposed of personal motives, let us analyse your terms for helping 
us to do public good. Broadly stated, these terms are-first, that an 
independent Anglo -Indian Theosophical Society shall be founded through 
your kind services, in the management of which neither of our present 
representatives shall have any voice; [ In the absence of my own letter, to 
which this Is a reply, the reader might think from this sentence that I had 
been animated by some unfriendly feeling for the representatives referred to- 
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott. This is far from having been the case; 
but, keenly alive to mistakes which had been made up to the time of, which I 
am writing, In the management of the Theosophical Society, Mr. ------and 
myself were under the impression that better public results might be 
obtained by commencing operations de novo, and taking, ourselves, the 
direction of the measures which might be employed to recommend the study 
of occultism to the modern world. This belief on our part was coexistent In 
both cases with a warm friendship based on the purest esteem for both the 
persons mentioned. ] And second, that one of us shall take the new body' 
under his patronage,' be' in free and direct communication with its leaders,' 
and afford them' direct proof that he really possessed that superior 
knowledge of the forces of Nature and the attributes of the human soul which 
would inspire them with proper confidence in his leadership.' I have copied 
your own words so as to avoid inaccuracy in defining the position.  
"From your point of view, therefore, those terms may seem so very reasonable 
as to provoke no dissent, and, indeed, a majority of your countrymen -if not of 
Europeans-might share that opinion. What, will you say, can be more 
reasonable than to ask that that teacher anxious to disseminate his 
knowledge, and pupil offering him to do so, should be brought face to face, 
and the one give the experimental proof to the other that his instructions 
were correct? Man of the world, living in, and in full sympathy with it, you 
are undoubtedly right. But the men of this other world of ours, untutored in 
your modes of thought, and ,who find it very hard at times to follow and 
appreciate the latter, can hardly be blamed for not responding as heartily to 
your suggestions as in your opinion they deserve. The first and most 
important of our objections is to be found in our rules. True, we have our 
schools and teachers, our neophytes and' shaberons' (superior adepts) and the 
door is always opened to the right man who knocks. And we invariably 
welcome the new comer; only, instead of going over to him, he has to come to 
us. More than that, unless he has reached that point in the path of occultism 
from which return is impossible by his having irrevocably pledged himself to 
our Association, we never - except in cases of utmost moment visit him or 
even cross the threshold of his door in visible appearance. 
" Is any of you so eager for knowledge and the beneficent powers it confers, as 
to be ready to leave your world and come into ours? Then let him come, but 
he must not think to return until the seal of the mysteries has locked his lips 
even against the chances of his own weakness or indiscretion. Let him come 
by all means as the pupil to the master, and without conditions, or let him 
wait, as so many others have, and be satisfied with such crumbs of knowledge 
as may fall in his way.  
" And supposing you were thus to come, as two of your own countrymen have 
already-as Madame B. did and Mr. 0. will - supposing you were to abandon 
all for the truth; to toil wearily for years up the hard, steep road, not daunted 
by obstacles, firm under every temptation ; were to faithfully keep within 
your heart the secrets entrusted to you as a trial ; had worked with all your 
energies and unselfishly to spread the truth and provoke men to correct 
thinking and a correct life -would you consider it just, if, after all your efforts, 
we were to grant to Madame B., or Mr. 0. as ' outsiders ' the terms you now 
ask for yourselves. Of these two persons, one has already given three-fourths 
of a life, the other six years of manhood's prime to us, and both will so labour 
to the close of their days; though ever working for their merited reward, yet 
never demanding it, nor murmuring when disappointed. Even though they 
respectively could accomplish far less then they do, would it not be a palpable 
injustice to ignore them in an important field of Theosophical effort? 
Ingratitude is not among our vices, nor do we imagine you would wish to 
advise it. 
" Neither of them has the least inclination to interfere with the management 
of the contemplated Anglo-Indian Branch, nor dictate its officers. But the new 
Society, if formed at all, must, though bearing a distinctive title of its own, 
be, in fact, a branch of the parent body, as is the British Theosophical Society 
at London, and contribute to its vitality and usefulness by promoting its 
leading idea of a Universal Brotherhood, and in other practicable ways.  
" Badly as the phenomena may have been shown, there have still been, as 
yourself admit, certain ones that are unimpeachable. The' raps on the table 
when no one touches it, , and the' bell sounds in the air,' have, you say, 
always been regarded as satisfactory, etc. etc. From this, you reason that 
good test phenomena' may easily be multiplied ad infinitum.' So they can- in 
any place where our magnetic and other conditions are constantly offered, 
and where we do not have to act with and through an enfeebled female body, 
in which, as we might say, a vital cyclone is raging much of the time. But 
imperfect as may be our visible agent, yet she is the best available at present, 
and her phenomena have for about half a century astonished and baffled 
some of the cleverest minds of the age...." 
"Two or three little notes which I next received from the Mahatma had 
reference to an incident I must now describe, the perfection of which as a test 
phenomenon appears to me more complete than that of any other I have yet 
described. It is worth notice, by-the-bye, that although the circumstances of 
this incident were related in the Indian papers at the time, the happy 
company of scoffers who flooded the Press with their simple comments on the 
brooch phenomenon, never cared to discuss " the pillow incident."  
Accompanied by our guests, we went to have lunch one day on the top of a 
neighbouring hill, The night before, I had had reason to think that my 
correspondent, Koot Hoomi, had been in what, for the purpose of the present 
explanation, I may call subjective communication with me. I do not go into 
any details, because it is unnecessary to trouble the general reader with 
impressions of that sort, After discussing the subject in the morning, I found 
on the hall-table a note from Koot Hoomi , in which he promised to give me 
something on the hill which should be a token of his (astral) presence near 
me the previous night.  
We went to our destination, camped down on the top of the hill, and were 
engaged on our lunch, when Madame Blavatsky said Koot Hoomi was asking 
where we would like to find the object he was going to send me. Let it be 
understood that up to this moment there had been no conversation in regard 
to the phenomenon I was expecting. The usual suggestion will, perhaps, be 
made that Madame Blavatsky " led up " to the choice I actually made. The 
fact of the matter was simply that in the midst of altogether other talk 
Madame Blavatsky pricked up her ears on hearing her occult voice- at once 
told me what was the question asked, and did not contribute to the selection 
made by one single remark on the subject, In fact, there was no general 
discussion, and it was by an absolutely spontaneous choice of my own that I 
said, after a little reflection, " inside that cushion," pointing to one against 
which one of the ladies present was leaning. I had no sooner uttered the 
words than my wife cried out, " Oh no, let it be inside mine," or words to that 
effect. I said, " very well, inside my wife's cushion; " Madame Blavatsky asked 
the Mahatma by her own methods if that would do, and received an 
affirmative reply. My liberty of choice as regards the place where the object 
should be found was thus absolute and unfettered by conditions. The most 
natural choice for me to have made under the circumstances, and having 
regard to our previous experiences, would have been up some particular tree, 
or buried in a particular spot of the ground; but the inside of a sewn-up 
cushion, fortuitously chosen on the spur of a moment, struck me, as my eye 
happened to fall upon the cushion I mentioned first, as a particularly good 
place; and when I had started the idea of a cushion, my wife's amendment to 
the original proposal was really an improvement, for the particular cushion 
then selected had never been for a moment out of her own possession all the 
morning. It was her usual jampan cushion; she had been leaning against it 
all the way from home, and was leaning against it still, as her jampan had 
been carried right up to the top of the hill, and she had continued to occupy it. 
The cushion itself was very firmly made of worsted work and velvet, and had 
been in our possession for years. It always remained, when we were at home, 
in the drawing-room, in a conspicuous corner of a certain sofa whence, when 
my wife went out, it would be taken to her jampan and again brought in on 
her return.  
When the cushion was agreed to, my wife was told to put it under her rug, 
and she did this with her own hands, inside her jampan. It may have been 
there about a minute, when Madame Blavatsky said we could set to work to 
cut it open. I did this with a penknife, and it was a work of some time, as the 
cushion was very securely sewn all round, and very strongly, so that it had to 
be cut open almost stitch by stitch, and no tearing was possible. When one 
side of the cover was completely ripped up, we found that the feathers of the 
cushion were enclosed in a separate inner case, also sewn round all the edges. 
There was nothing to be found between the inner cushion and the outer case ; 
so we proceeded to rip up the inner cushion; and this done, my wife searched 
among the feathers.  
The first thing she found was a little three-cornered note, addressed to me in 
the now familiar handwriting of my occult correspondent. It ran as follows : 
" My dear Brother,  -This brooch, No. 2, is placed in this very strange place, simply to show you 
how very easily a real phenomenon is produced, and how still easier it is to 
suspect its genuineness. Make of it what you like, even to classing me with 
confederates.  
" The difficulty you spoke of last night with respect to the interchange of our 
letters, I will try to remove. One of our pupils will shortly visit Lahore and 
the N. W. P. ; and an address will be sent to you which you can always use; 
unless, indeed, you really would prefer corresponding through -----pillows! 
Please to remark that the present is not dated from a Lodge, , but from a 
Kashmere valley ." 
While I was reading this note, my wife discovered, by further search among 
the feathers, the brooch referred to, one of her own, it very old and very 
familiar brooch which she generally left on her dressing-table when it was 
not in use. It would have been impossible to invent or imagine a proof of 
occult power, in the nature of mechanical proofs, more irresistible and 
convincing than this incident was for us who had personal knowledge of the 
various circumstances described. The whole force and significance to us of the 
brooch thus returned, hinged on to my subjective impressions of the previous 
night. The reason for selecting the brooch as a thing to give us, dated no 
earlier than then. On the hypothesis, therefore, idiotic hypothesis as it would 
be on all grounds, that the cushion must have been got at by Madame 
Blavatsky, it must have been got at since I spoke of my impressions that 
morning, shortly after breakfast; but from the time of getting up that 
morning, Madame Blavatsky had hardly been out of our sight, and had been 
sitting with my wife in the drawing-room. She had been doing this, by-the- 
bye, against the grain, for she had writing which she wanted to do in her own 
room, but she had been told by her voices to go and sit in the drawing-room 
with my wife that morning, and had done so, grumbling at the interruption of 
her work, and wholly unable to discern any motive for the order. The motive 
was afterwards clear enough, and had reference to the intended phenomenon. 
It was desirable that we should have no arrière pensée in our minds as to 
what Madame Blavatsky might possibly have been doing during the morning, 
in the event of the incident taking such a turn as to make that a factor in 
determining its genuineness. Of course, if the selection of the pillow could 
have been foreseen, it would have been unnecessary to victimise our " old 
Lady, " as we generally called her. The presence of the famous pillow itself, 
with my wife all the morning in the drawing-room, would have been enough. 
But perfect liberty of choice was to be left to me in selecting a cache for the 
brooch; and the pillow can have been in nobody's mind, any more than in my 
own, beforehand.  
The language of the note given above embodied many little points which had 
a meaning for us. All through, it bore indirect reference to the conversation 
that had taken place at our dinner-table the previous evening. I had been 
talking of the little traces here and there which the long letters from Koot 
Hoomi bore, showing in spite of their splendid mastery over the language and 
the vigour of their style, a turn or two of expression that an Englishman 
would not have made use of; for example, in the form of address, which in the 
two letters already quoted had been tinged with Orientalism. " But what 
should he have written?' somebody asked, and I had said, " under similar 
circumstances an Englishman would probably have written simply: " My dear 
Brother." Then the allusion to the Kashmir Valley as the place from which 
the letter was written, instead of from a Lodge, was au allusion to the same 
conversation ; and the underlining of the " k " was another, as Madame 
Blavatsky had been saying that Koot Hoomi's spelling of " Scepticism" with a 
" k " was not an Americanism in his case, but due to a philological whim of 
his.  
The incidents of the day were not quite over, even when the brooch was 
found; for that evening, after we had gone home, there fell from my napkin, 
after I had unfolded it at dinner, a little note, too private and personal to be 
reprinted fully, but part of which I am impelled to quote, for the sake of the 
allusion it contains, to occult modus operandi. I must explain that, before 
starting for the hill, I had penned a few lines of thanks for the promise 
contained in the note then received as described. This note I gave to Madame 
Blavatsky, to despatch by occult methods if she had an opportunity. And she 
carried it in her hand as she and my wife went on in advance, in jampans, 
along the Simla Mall, not finding an opportunity until about halfway to our 
destination. Then she got rid of the note, occultism only knows how. This 
circumstance had been spoken of at the picnic; and as I was opening the note 
found in the pillow, someone suggested that it would, perhaps, be found to 
contain an answer to my note just sent. It did not contain any allusion to this, 
as the reader will be already aware.  
The note I received at dinnertime said :-" A few words more. Why should you 
have felt disappointed at not receiving a direct reply to your last note. It was 
received in my room about half a minute after the currents for the production 
of the pillow dak, had been set ready, and in full play. And there was no 
necessity for an answer. ..."  
It seemed to bring one in imagination one step nearer a realisation of the 
state of the facts to hear " the currents " employed to accomplish what would 
have been a miracle for all the science of Europe, spoken of thus familiarly.  
A miracle for all the science of Europe, and as hard a fact for us, 
nevertheless, as the room in which we sat. We knew that the phenomenon we 
had seen was a wonderful reality; that the thought-power of a man in 
Kashmir had picked up a material object from a table in Simla, and, 
disintegrating it by some process of which Western science does not yet 
dream, had passed it through other matter, and had there restored it to its 
original solidarity, the dispersed particles resuming their precise places as 
before, and reconstituting the object down to every line or scratch upon its 
surface. (By-the-by, it bore some scratches when it emerged from the pillow 
which it never bore before -the initials of our friend. ) And we knew that 
written notes on tangible paper had been flashing backwards and forwards 
that day between our friend and ourselves, though hundreds of miles of 
Himalayan mountains intervened between us, and had been flashing 
backwards and forwards with the speed of electricity, And yet we knew that 
an impenetrable wall, built up of its own prejudice and obstinacy, of its 
learned ignorance and polished dulness, was established round the minds of 
scientific men in the West, as a body, across which we should never be able to 
carry our facts and our experience. And it is with a greater sense of 
oppression than people who have never been in a similar position will realise, 
that I now tell the story I have to tell, and know all the while that the solemn 
accuracy of its minutest detail, the utter truthfulness of every syllable in this 
record, is little better than incense to my own conscience - that the scientific 
minds of the West with which of all cultivated minds my own has hitherto 
been most in sympathy, will be closed to my testimony most hopelessly. " 
Though one should rise from the dead," etc.. It is the old story. It is the old 
story, at all events as regards the crashing results on opinion which such 
evidence as that I have been giving, ought to have. The smile of incredulity 
which thinks itself so wise and is so foolish, the suspicions which flatter 
themselves they are so cunning, and are really the fruit of so much dulness, 
will gleam over these pages, and wither all their meaning-for the readers who 
smile. But I suppose that Koot Hoomi is not only right in declaring the world 
unripe as yet for too staggering a proof of occult power, but also in taking a 
friendly interest, as it will be seen presently that he does, in the little book I 
am writing, as one of the influences which bit by bit may sap the foundations 
of dogmatism and stupidity, on which science, which thinks itself so liberal, 
has latterly become so firmly rooted.  
The next letter- the third long one-that I received from the Mahatma, reached 
me shortly after my return for the cold weather to Allahabad. But I received 
one communication from him- a telegram -before its arrival, on the day of my 
own return to Allahabad. This telegram, of no great importance as regards its 
contents, which were little more than an expression of thanks for some letters 
I had written in the papers, was, nevertheless, of great interest indirectly, 
affording me, as it ultimately did, evidence of a kind which could appeal to 
other minds besides my own, that Koot Hoomi's letters were not, as some 
ingenious persons may have been inclined to imagine - in spite of various 
mechanical difficulties in the way of the theory- the work of Madame 
Blavatsky. For me, knowing her as intimately as I did, the inherent evidence 
of the style was enough to make the suggestion that she might have written 
them, a mere absurdity. And, if it is urged that the authoress of "Isis 
Unveiled " has certainly a command of language which renders it difficult to 
say what she could not write, the answer is simple. In the production of this 
book she was so largely helped by the Brothers, that great portions of it are 
not really her work at all. She never makes any disguise of this fact, though 
it is one of a kind which it is useless for her to proclaim to the world at large, 
as it would be perfectly unintelligible, except to persons who knew something 
of the external facts, at all events, of occultism. Koot Hoomi's letters, as I say, 
are perfectly unlike her own style. But, in reference to some of them, 
receiving them as I did while she was in the house with me, it was not 
mechanically possible that she might have been the writer. Now, the 
telegram I received at Allahabad, which was wired to me from Jhelum, was 
in reply specially to a letter I addressed to Koot Hoomi just before leaving 
Simla, and enclosed to Madame Blavatsky, who had started some days 
previously, and was then at Amritsur. She received the letter, with its 
enclosure, at Amritsur on the 27th of October, as I came to know, not merely 
from knowing when I sent it, but positively by means of the envelope which 
she returned to me at Allahabad by direction of Koot Hoomi, not in the least 
knowing why he wished it sent to me. I did not at first see what on earth was 
the use of the old envelope to me, but I put it away and afterwards obtained 
the clue to the idea in Koot Hoomi's mind when Madame Blavatsky wrote me 
word that he wanted me to obtain the original of the Jhelum telegram. 
Through the agency of a friend connected with the administration of the 
telegraph department, I was enabled eventually to obtain a sight of the 
original of the telegram- a message of about twenty words; and then I saw the 
meaning of the envelope. The message was in Koot Hoomi's own handwriting, 
and it was an answer from Jhelum to a letter which the delivery postmark on 
the envelope showed to have been delivered at Amritsur on the same day the 
message was sent. Madame Blavatsky assuredly was herself at Amritsur on 
that date, seeing large numbers of people there in connection with the work 
of the Theosophical Society, and the handwriting of Koot Hoomi's letters, 
nevertheless, appears on a telegram undeniably handed in at the Jhelum 
office on that date. So although some of Koot Hoomi's letters passed through 
her hands to me, she is proved not to be their writer, as she is certainly not 
the producer of their handwriting.  
Koot Hoomi was probably himself actually at or near Jhelum at the time, as 
he came down into the midst of the world for a few days, under peculiar 
circumstances, to see Madame Blavatsky: the letter I received at Allahabad 
shortly after my return explained this.  
Madame Blavatsky had been deeply hurt by the behaviour of some 
incredulous persons at Simla whom she had met at our house and elsewhere, 
who, being unable to assimilate the experience they had had of her 
phenomena, got by degrees into that hostile frame of mind which is one of the 
phases of feeling I am now used to seeing developed. Perfectly unable to show 
how the phenomena can be the result of fraud, but thinking that, because 
they do not understand them, they must be fraudulent, people of a certain 
temperament become possessed with the spirit which animated persecution 
by religious authorities in the infancy of physical science. And, by a piece of 
bad luck, a gentleman who was thus affected was annoyed at a trifling 
indiscretion on the part of Colonel Olcott, who, in a letter to one of the 
Bombay papers, quoted some expressions he had made use of in praise of the 
Theosophical Society and its good influence on the natives. All the irritation 
thus set up, worked on Madame Blavatsky's excitable temperament to an 
extent which only those who know her will be able to imagine. The allusions 
in Koot Hoomi 's letter will now be understood. After some reference to 
important business with which he had been concerned since writing to me 
last, Koot Hoomi went on :-  
" You see, then, that we have weightier matters than small societies to think 
about; yet the Theosophical Society must not be neglected. The affair has 
taken an impulse which, if not well guided, might beget very evil issues. 
Recall to mind the avalanches of your admired Alps, and remember that at 
first their mass is small, and their momentum little. A trite comparison, you 
may say, but I cannot think of a better illustration when viewing the gradual 
aggregation of trifling events growing into a menacing destiny for the 
Theosophical Society. It came quite forcibly upon me the other day as I was 
coming down the defiles of Konenlun -- Karakorum you call them- and saw an 
avalanche tumble. I had gone personally to our chief. ... and was crossing 
over to Lhadak on my way home. What other speculations might have 
followed I cannot say. But just as I was taking advantage of the awful 
stillness which usually follows such cataclysms, to get a clearer view of the 
present situation, and the disposition of the' mystics ' at Simla, I was rudely 
recalled to my senses. A familiar voice, as shrill as the one attributed to 
Saraswati's peacock- which, if we may credit tradition, frightened off the 
King of the Nagas- shouted along the currents-" Koot Hoomi,....... come 
quicker and help me! " and, in her excitement, forgot she was speaking 
English. I must say that the "old Lady's" telegrams do strike one like stones 
from a catapult.  
" What could I do but come. Argument through space with one who was in 
cold despair and in a state of moral chaos, was useless. So I determined to 
emerge from a seclusion of many years, and spend some time with her to 
comfort her as well as I could. But our friend is not one to cause her mind to 
reflect the philosophical resignation of Marcus Aurelius. The Fates never 
wrote, that she could say :- 'It is a royal thing when one is doing good to hear 
evil spoken of himself.' I had come for a few days, but now find that I myself 
cannot endure for any length of time the stifling magnetism even of my own 
countrymen. I have seen some of our proud old Sikhs drunk and staggering 
over the marble pavement of their sacred temple. I have heard an English
speaking Vakil declaim against Yog Vidya and Theosophy as a delusion and a 
lie, declaring that English science had emancipated them from such 
degrading superstitions, and saying that it was an insult to India to maintain 
that the dirty Yogees and Sunuyasis knew anything about the mysteries of 
Nature, or that any living man can, or ever could, perform any phenomena. I 
turn my face homeward tomorrow. 
" ........I have telegraphed you my thanks for your obliging compliance with 
my wishes in the matter you allude to in your letter of the 24th..... Received 
at Amritsur, on the 27th, at 2 P.M. I got your letter about thirty miles beyond 
Rawul Pinder, five minutes later, and had an acknowledgement wired to you 
from Jhelum at 4 P. M. on the same afternoon. Our modes of accelerated 
delivery and quick communications [ Many old Indians, and some books 
about the Indian Mutiny, take note of the perfectly incomprehensible way 
news of events transpiring at a distance would sometimes be found to have 
penetrated the native bazaars before It had reached the Europeans at such 
places by the quickest means of communication at their disposal. The 
explanation I have been informed, Is that the Brothers, who were anxious to 
save the British power at that time, regarding it as a better government for 
India than any system of native rule that could take its place, were quick to 
distribute information by their own methods when this could operate to quiet 
popular excitement and discourage new risings. The sentiment that animated 
them then, animates them still, and the influence of the Theosophical Society 
In India is one which the Government would do wisely to countenance and 
support. The suspicions directed against its founders in the first instance, 
misdirected as they were, were excusable enough , but now that the character 
of the whole movement is better understood, it would be well for the officers 
of the British Government in India who have any opportunity of the kind, to 
do whatever they can towards showing their sympathy with the promoters of 
the Society, who must, necessarily, have an uphill task to perform without 
such manifestations of sympathy. ] Are not, then, as you will see, to be 
despised by the Western world, or even the Aryan English-speaking and 
sceptical Vakils. 
" I could not ask a more judicial frame of mind in an ally than that in which 
you are beginning to find yourself. My brother, you have already changed 
your attitude toward us in a distinct degree. What is to prevent a perfect 
mutual understanding one day?...... It is not possible that there should be 
much more at best than a. benevolent neutrality shown by your people 
towards ours. There is so very minute a point of contact between the two 
civilisations they respectively represent, that one might almost say they 
could not touch at all. Nor would they, but for the few- shall I say eccentrics 
?-who, like you, dream better and bolder dreams than the rest, and, 
provoking thought, bring the two together by their own admirable audacity."  
The letter before me at present is occupied so much with matters personal to 
myself, that I can only make quotations here and there; but these are 
specially interesting, as investing with an air of reality subjects which are 
generally treated in "vague and pompous language. Koot Hoomi was anxious 
to guard me from idealising the Brothers too much on the strength of my 
admiration for their marvellous powers. 
" Are you certain," he writes, " that the pleasant impression you now may 
have from our correspondence would not instantly be destroyed upon seeing 
me. And which of our holy shaberons has had the benefit of even the little 
university education and inkling of European manners that has fallen to my 
share. An instance: I desired Madame Blavatsky to select, among the two or 
three Aryian Punjabees who study Yog Vidya and are natural mystics, one 
whom, without disclosing myself to him too much, I could designate as an 
agent between yourself and us, and whom I was anxious to despatch to you 
with a letter of introduction, and have him to speak to you of Yoga and its 
practical effects. This young gentleman, who is as pure as purity itself, whose 
aspirations and thoughts are of the most spiritual, ennobling kind, and who, 
merely through self-exertion, is able to penetrate into the regions of the 
formless world - this young man is not fit for a drawing-room. Having 
explained to him that the greatest good might result for his country if he 
helped you to organise a branch of English mystics, by proving to them 
practically to what wonderful results led the study of Yog, Madame 
Blavatsky asked him, in guarded and very delicate terms, to change his dress 
and turban before starting for Allahabad ; for-though she did not give him 
this reason- they were very dirty and slovenly. You are to tell Mr. Sinnett, 
she said, that you bring him a letter from the Brother, with whom he 
corresponds ; but if he asks you anything either of him or the other Brothers, 
answer him simply and truthfully that you are not allowed to expatiate upon 
the subject. Speak of Yog, and prove to him what powers you have attained. 
'This young man who had consented, wrote later on the following curious 
letter :- Madame,' he said, you who preach the highest standard of morality, 
of truthfulness, etc., you would have me play the part of an impostor. You ask 
me to change, my clothes at the risk of giving a false idea of my personality 
and mystifying the gentleman you send me to. Here is an illustration of the 
difficulties under which we have to labour. Powerless to send you a neophyte 
before you have pledged yourself to us, we have to either keep back or 
despatch to you one who, at best, would shock, if not inspire, you at once with 
disgust."  
The present letter yields only little more that it seems desirable to quote. In a 
guarded way, Koot Hoomi said that as often as it was practicable to 
communicate with me, " whether ..........by letters (in or out of pillows) or 
personal visits in astral form, it will be done. But remember," he added, " that 
Simla is 7,000 feet higher than Allahabad, and the difficulties to be 
surmounted at the latter are tremendous." To the ordinary mind, feats of " 
magic " are hardly distinguishable by degrees of difficulty, and the little hint 
contained in the last sentence may thus help to show that, magical as the 
phenomena of the Brothers appear (as soon as the dull-witted hypothesis of 
fraud is abandoned), they are magic of a kind which is amenable to its own 
laws. Most of the bodies in Nature were elements, in the infancy of chemistry; 
but in turn the number is reduced by deeper and deeper researches into the 
law of combinations - and so with magic. To ride the clouds in a basket, or 
send messages under the sea, would have been magic in one age of the world, 
but becomes the commonplace of the next. The Simla phenomena are magic 
for the majority of this generation, but psychological telegraphy itself may 
become, if not the property of mankind a few generations hence, a fact of 
science as undeniable as the differential calculus, and known to be attainable 
by its own appropriate students. That it is easier to accomplish it and cognate 
achievements, in certain strata of the atmosphere rather than in others, is 
already a practical suggestion which tends to drag it down from the realms of 
magic; or, as the same idea might be differently expressed, to lift it towards 
the region of exact science.  
I am here enabled to insert the greater part of a letter addressed by Koot 
Hoomi to the friend referred to in a former passage, as having opened up a 
correspondence with him in reference to the idea which he contemplated 
under certain conditions, of devoting himself entirely to the pursuit of 
occultism. This letter throws a great deal of light upon some of the 
metaphysical conceptions of the occultists, and their metaphysics, be it 
remembered, are a great deal more than abstract speculation.  
" Dear Sir- 
Availing of the first moments of leisure to formally answer your letter of the 
17th ultimo, I will now report the result of my conference with our chiefs 
upon the proposition therein contained, trying at the same time to answer all 
your questions.  
" I am first to thank you on behalf of the whole section of our fraternity that 
is especially interested in the welfare of India for an offer of help whose 
importance and sincerity no one can doubt. Tracing our lineage through the 
vicissitudes of Indian civilization from a remote past, we have a love for our 
motherland no deep and passionate that it has survived even the broadening 
and cosmopolitanizing (pardon me if that is not an English word) effect of our 
studies in the laws of Nature. And so I, and every other Indian patriot, feel 
the strongest gratitude for every kind word or deed that is given in her 
behalf.  
" Imagine, then, that since we are all convinced that the degradation of India 
is largely due to the suffocation of her ancient spirituality, and that whatever 
helps to restore that higher standard of thought and morals, must be 
regenerating in national force, everyone of us would naturally and without 
urging, be disposed to push forward a society whose proposed formation is 
under debate, especially if it really is meant to become a society untainted by 
selfish motive, and whose object is the revival of ancient science, and 
tendency, to rehabilitate our country in the world's estimation. Take this for 
granted without further asseverations. But you know, as any man who has 
read history, that patriots may burst their hearts in vain if circumstances are 
against them. Sometimes it has happened that no human power, not even the 
fury and force of the loftiest patriotism, has been able to bend an iron destiny 
aside from its fixed course, and nations have gone out like torches dropped 
into the water in the engulfing blackness of ruin. Thus, we who have the 
sense of our country's fall, though not the power to lift her up at once, cannot 
do as we would either as to general affairs or this particular one. And with 
the readiness, but not the right to meet your advances more than half way, 
we are forced to say that the idea entertained by Mr. Sinnett and yourself is 
impracticable in part. It is, in a word, impossible for myself or any Brother, or 
even an advanced neophyte, to be specially assigned and set apart as the 
guiding spirit or chief of the Anglo-lndian branch. We know it would be a 
good thing to have you and a few of your colleagues regularly instructed and 
shown the phenomena and their rationale. For though none but you few 
would be convinced, still it would be a decided gain to have even a few 
Englishmen, of first-class ability, enlisted as students of Asiatic Psychology. 
We are aware of all this, and much more; hence we do not refuse to 
correspond with, and otherwise help you in various ways. But what we do 
refuse is, to take any other responsibility upon ourselves than this periodical 
correspondence and assistance with our advice, and, as occasion favours, such 
tangible, possibly visible, proofs, as would satisfy you of our presence and 
interest. To " guide " you we will not consent. However much we may be able 
to do, yet we can promise only to give you the full measure of your deserts. 
Deserve much, and we will prove honest debtors; little, and you need only 
expect a compensating return. This is not a mere text taken from a 
schoolboy's copybook, though it sounds so, but only the clumsy statement of 
the law of our order, and we cannot transcend it. Utterly unacquainted with 
Western, especially English, modes of thought and action, were we to meddle 
in an organization of such a kind, you would find all your fixed habits and 
traditions incessantly clashing, if not with the new aspirations themselves, at 
least with their modes of realisation as suggested by us. You could not get 
unanimous consent to go even the length you might yourself. I have asked 
Mr. Sinnett to draft a plan embodying your joint ides for submission to our 
chiefs, this seeming the shortest way to a mutual agreement. Under our' 
guidance' your branch could not live, you not being men to be guided at all in 
that sense. - Hence the society would be a premature birth and a failure, 
looking as incongruous as a Paris Daumont drawn by a team of Indian yaks 
or camels. You ask us to teach you true science- the occult aspect of the 
known side of Nature ; and this you think can be as easily done as asked. You 
do not seem to realise the tremendous difficulties in the way of imparting 
even the rudiments of our science to those who have been trained in the 
familiar methods of yours. You do not see that the more you have of the one 
the less capable you are of instinctively comprehending the other, for a man 
can only think in his worn grooves, and unless he has the courage to fill up 
these, and make new ones for himself, he must perforce travel on the old 
lines. Allow me a few instances. In conformity with exact science you would 
define but one cosmic energy, and see no difference between the energy 
expended by the traveller who pushes aside the bush that obstructs his path, 
and the scientific experimenter who expends an equal amount of energy in 
setting a pendulum in motion. We do; for we know there is a world of 
difference between the two. The one uselessly dissipates and scatters force, 
the other concentrates and stores it. And here please understand that I do 
not refer to the relative utility of the two, as one might imagine, but only to 
the fact that in the one case there is but brute force flung out without any 
transmutation of that brute energy into the higher potential form of spiritual 
dynamics, and in the other there is just that. Please do not consider me 
vaguely metaphysical. The idea I wish to convey is that the result of the 
highest intellection in the scientifically occupied brain is the evolution of a 
sublimated form of spiritual energy, which, in the cosmic action, is productive 
of illimitable results; while the automatically acting brain holds, or stores up 
in itself, only a certain quantum of brute force that is unfruitful of benefit for 
the individual or humanity. The human brain is an exhaustless generator of 
the most refined quality of cosmic force out of the low, brute energy of Nature 
; and the complete adept has made himself a centre from which irradiate 
potentialities that beget correlations upon correlations through Aeons of time 
to come. This is the key to the mystery of his being able to project into and 
materialise in the visible world the forms that his imagination has 
constructed out of inert cosmic matter in the invisible world. The adept does 
not create anything new, but only utilizes and manipulates materials which 
Nature has in store around him, and material which, throughout eternities, 
has passed through all the forms. He has but to choose the one he wants, and 
recall it into objective existence. Would not this sound to one of your ' learned 
' biologists like a madman's dream? 
" You say there are few branches of science with which you do not possess 
more or less acquaintance, and that you believe you are doing a certain 
amount of good having acquired the position to do this by long years of study. 
Doubtless you do ; but will you permit me to sketch for you still more clearly 
the difference between the modes of physical (called exact out of mere 
compliment) and metaphysical sciences. The latter, as you know, being 
incapable of verification before mixed audiences, is classed by Mr. Tyndall 
with the fictions of poetry. The realistic science of fact on the other hand is 
utterly prosaic. Now, for us, poor unknown philanthropists, no fact of either 
of these sciences is interesting except in the degree of its potentiality of moral 
results, and in the ratio of its usefulness to mankind. And what, in its proud 
isolation, can be more utterly indifferent to everyone and everything, or more 
bound to nothing but the selfish requisites for its advancement, then, this 
materialistic science of fact ? May I ask then, what have the laws of Faraday, 
Tyndall, or others to do with philanthropy in their abstract relations with 
humanity, viewed as an intelligent whole? What care they for Man as an 
isolated atom of this great and harmonious whole, even though they may be 
sometimes of practical use to him ? Cosmic energy is something eternal and 
incessant; matter is indestructible and there stand the scientific facts. Doubt 
them, and you are an ignoramus; deny them, a dangerous lunatic, a bigot; 
pretend to improve upon the theories - an impertinent charlatan. And yet 
even these scientific facts never suggested any proof to the word of 
experimenters that Nature consciously prefers that matter should be 
indestructible under organic rather than inorganic forms, and that she works 
slowly but incessantly towards the realisation of this object - the evolution of 
conscious life out of inert material. Hence, their ignorance about the 
scattering and concretion of cosmic energy in its metaphysical aspects, their 
division about Darwin's theories, their uncertainty about the degree of 
conscious life in separate elements, and, as a necessity, the scornful rejection 
of every phenomenon outside their own stated conditions, and the very idea of 
worlds of semi-intelligent if not intellectual forces at work in hidden corners 
of Nature. To give you another practical illustration- we see a vast difference 
between the two qualities of two equal amounts of energy expended by two 
men, of whom one, let us suppose, is on his way to his daily quiet work, and 
another on his way to denounce a fellow creature at the police-station, while 
the men of science see none ; and we- not they- see a specific difference 
between the energy in the motion of the wind and that of a revolving wheel. 
And why? Because every thought of man upon being evolved passes into the 
inner world, and becomes an active entity by associating itself, coalescing we 
might term it, with an elemental- that is to say, with one of the semi
intelligent forces of the kingdoms. It survives as an active intelligence-a 
creature of the mind's begetting-for a longer or shorter period proportionate 
with the original intensity of the cerebral action which generated it. Thus, a 
good thought is perpetuated as an active, beneficent power, an evil one as a 
maleficent demon. And so man is continually peopling his current in space 
with a world of his own, crowded with the offsprings of his fancies, desires, 
impulses, and passions; a current which reacts upon any sensitive or nervous 
organization which comes in contact with it, in proportion to its dynamic 
intensity. The Buddhist calls this his 'Skandha ' ; the Hindu gives it the name 
of 'Karma.' The adept evolves these shapes consciously; other men throw 
them off unconsciously. The adept, to be successful and preserve his power, 
must dwell in solitude, and more or less within his own soul. Still less does 
exact science perceive that while the building ant, the busy bee, the 
nidifacient bird, accumulates each in its own humble way as much cosmic 
energy in its potential form as a Haydn, a Plato, or a ploughman turning his 
furrow, in theirs; the hunter who kills game for his pleasure or profit, or the 
positivist who applies his intellect to proving that + x + =---, are wasting and 
scattering energy no less than the tiger which springs upon its prey. They all 
rob Nature instead of enriching her, and will all, in the degree of their 
intelligence, find themselves accountable. 
" Exact experimental science has nothing to do with morality, virtue, 
philanthropy- therefore, can make no claim upon our help until it blends 
itself with metaphysics. Being but a cold classification of facts outside man, 
and existing before and after him, her domain of usefulness ceases for us at 
the outer boundary of these facts; and whatever the inferences and results for 
humanity from the materials acquired by her method, she little cares. 
Therefore, as our sphere lies entirely outside hers- as far as the path of 
Uranus is outside the Earth's - we distinctly refuse to be broken on any wheel 
of her construction. Heat is but a mode of motion to her, and motion develops 
heat, but why the mechanical motion of the revolving wheel should be 
metaphysically of a higher value than the heat into which it is gradually 
transformed she has yet to discover. The philosophical and transcendental: 
(hence absurd) notion of the mediaeval Theosophist that the final progress of 
human labour, aided by the incessant discoveries of man, must one day 
culminate in a process which, in imitation of the sun energy - in its capacity 
as a direct motor-shall result in the evolution of nutritious food out inorganic 
matter, is unthinkable for men of science. Were the sun, the great nourishing 
father of or planetary system, to hatch granite chickens out of a boulder 
'under test conditions' tomorrow, the (the men of science) would accept it as a 
scientific fact without wasting a regret that the fowls were not alive so as to 
feed the hungry and the starving. But let a shaberon cross the Himalayas in 
a time of famine and multiply sacks of rice for the perishing multitudes-as he 
could- and your magistrates and collectors would probably lodge him in jail 
make him confess what granary he had robbed. This is exact science and your 
realistic world. An though, as you say, you are impressed by the vast extent 
of the world's ignorance on every subject which you pertinently designate as 
a' few palpable facts collected and roughly generalised, and a technical jargon 
invented to hide man's ignorance of all that lies behind these facts,' and 
though you speak of your faith in the infinite possibilities of Nature, yet you 
are content to spend your life in a work which aids only that same exact 
science..... 
" Of your several questions we will first discuss, if you please, the one 
relating to the presumed failure of the' Fraternity' to ' leave any mark upon 
the history of the world.' They ought, you think, to have been able, with their 
extraordinary advantages, to have' gathered into their schools a considerable 
portion of the more enlightened minds of every race.' How do you know they 
have made no such mark ~ Are you acquainted with their efforts, successes, 
and failures? Have you any dock upon which to arraign them ? How could 
your world collect proofs of the doings of men who have sedulously kept 
closed every possible door of approach by which the inquisitive would spy 
upon them? The prime condition of their success was that they should never 
be supervised or obstructed. What they have done they know; all that those 
outside their circle could perceive was results, the causes of which were 
masked from view. To account for these results, men have, in different ages, 
invented theories of the interposition of gods, special providences, fates, the 
benign or hostile influence of the stars. There never was a time within or 
before the so- called historical period when our predecessors were not 
moulding events and' making history,' the facts of which were subsequently 
and invariably distorted by historians to suit contemporary prejudices. Are 
you quite sure that the visible heroic figures in the successive dramas were 
not often but their puppets? We never pretended to be able to draw nations in 
the mass to this or that crisis in spite of the general drift of the world's cosmic 
relations. The cycles must run their rounds. Periods of mental and moral 
light and darkness succeed each other as day does night. The major and 
minor yugas must be accomplished according to the established order of 
things. And we, borne along on the mighty tide, can only modify and direct 
some of its minor currents. If we had the powers of the imaginary Personal 
God, and the universal and immutable laws were but toys to play with, then, 
indeed, might we have created conditions that would have turned this earth 
into an arcadia for lofty souls. But having to deal with an immutable law, 
being ourselves its creatures, we have had to do what we could, and rest 
thankful. There have been times when a considerable portion of 'enlightened 
minds' were taught in our schools. Such times there were in India, Persia, 
Egypt, Greece, and Rome. But, as I remarked in a letter to Mr. Sinnett, the 
adept is the efflorescence of his age, and comparatively few ever appear in a 
single century. Earth is the battleground of moral no less than of physical 
forces, and the boisterousness of animal passion, under the stimulus of the 
rude energies of the lower group of etheric agents, always tends to quench 
spirituality. What else could one expect of men so nearly related to the lower 
kingdom from which they evolved ? True also, our numbers are just now 
diminishing, but this is because, as I have said, we are of the human race, 
subject to its cyclic impulse, and powerless to turn that back upon itself. Can 
you turn the Gunga or the Bramaputra back to its sources; can you even dam 
it so that its piled-up waters will not overflow the banks ? No; but you may 
draw the stream partly into canals, and utilise its hydraulic power for the 
good of mankind. So we, who cannot stop the world from going in its destined 
direction, are yet able to divert some part of its energy into useful channels. 
Think of us as demigods, and my explanation will not satisfy you; view us as 
simple men- perhaps a little wiser as the result of special study- and it ought 
to answer your objection.  
" What good,' you say, ' is to be attained for my fellows and myself (the two 
are inseparable) by these occult sciences ? ' When the natives see that an 
interest is taken by the English, and even by some high officials in India, in 
their ancestral science and philosophies, they will themselves take openly to 
their study. .And when they come to realise that the old' divine' phenomena 
were not miracles, but scientific effects, superstition will abate. Thus, the 
greatest evil that now oppresses and retards the revival of Indian civilization 
will in time disappear. The present tendency of education is to make them 
materialistic and root out spirituality. With a proper understanding of what 
their ancestors meant by their writings and teachings, education would 
become a blessing, whereas now it is often a curse. .At present the non
educated, as much as the learned natives, regard the English as too 
prejudiced, because of their Christian religion and modern science, to care to 
understand them or their traditions. They mutually hate and mistrust each 
other. This changed attitude towards the older philosophy, would influence 
the native princes and wealthy men to endow normal schools for the 
education of pundits ; and old MSS., hitherto buried out of the reach of the 
Europeans, would again come to light, and with them the key to much of that 
which was hidden for ages from the popular understanding, for which your 
sceptical Sanscritists do not care, which your religious missionaries do not 
dare, to understand. Science would gain much, humanity everything. Under 
the stimulus of the AngIo-Indian Theosophical Society, we might in time see 
another golden age of Sanskrit literature.  
" If we look at Ceylon we shall see the most scholarly priests combining, 
under the lead of the Theosophical Society, in a new exegesis of Buddhistic 
philosophy; and at Galle, on the 15th of September, a secular Theosophical 
School for the teaching of Singhalese youth, opened with an attendance of 
over three hundred scholars; an example about to be imitated at three other 
points in that island. If the Theosophical Society, as at present constituted,' 
has indeed no' real vitality,' and yet in its modest way has done so much 
practical good, how much greater results might not be anticipated from a 
body organised upon the better plan you could suggest ? 
" The same causes that are materialising the Hindu mind are equally 
affecting all Western thought. Education enthrones scepticism, but imprisons 
spirituality. You can do immense good by helping to give the Western nations 
a secure basis upon which to reconstruct their crumbling faith. And what 
they need is the evidence that Asiatic psychology alone supplies. Give this, 
and you will confer happiness of mind on thousands. The era of blind faith is 
gone; that of inquiry is here. Inquiry that only unmasks error, without 
discovering anything upon which the soul can build, will but make 
iconoclasts. Iconoclasm, from its very destructiveness, can give nothing; it can 
only raze. But man cannot rest satisfied with bare negation. Agnosticism is 
but a temporary halt. This is the moment to guide the recurrent impulse 
which must soon come, and which will push the age towards extreme 
atheism, or drag it back to extreme sacerdotalism, if it is not led to the 
primitive soul-satisfying philosophy of the Aryans. He who observes what is 
going on today, on the one hand among the Catholics, who are breeding 
miracles as fast as the white ants do their young, on the other among the 
freethinkers, who are converting, by masses, into Agnostics- will see the drift 
of things. The age is revelling at a debauch of phenomena. The same marvels 
that the spiritualists quote in opposition to the dogmas of eternal perdition 
and atonement, the Catholics swarm to witness as proof of their faith in 
miracles. The sceptics make game of both. All are blind and there is no one to 
lead them. You and your colleagues may help to furnish the materials for a 
needed universal religious philosophy; one impregnable to scientific assault, 
because itself the finality of absolute science, and a religion that is indeed 
worthy of the name since it includes the relations of man physical to man 
psychical, and of the two to all that is above and below them. Is not this 
worth a slight sacrifice? And if, after reflection, you should decide to enter 
this new career, let it be known that your society is no miracle-mongering or 
banqueting club, nor specially given to the study of phenomenalism. Its chief 
aim is to extirpate current superstitions and scepticism, and from long-sealed 
ancient fountains to draw the proof that man may shape his own future 
destiny, and know for a certainty that he can live hereafter, if he only wills, 
and that all ' phenomena' , are but manifestations of natural law, to try to 
comprehend which is the duty of every intelligent being."  
I have hitherto said nothing of the circumstances under which these various 
letters reached my hands ; nor, in comparison with the intrinsic interest of 
the ideas they embody, can the phenomenal conditions under which some of 
them were delivered, be regarded as otherwise than of secondary interest for 
readers who appreciate their philosophy. But every bit of evidence which 
helps to exhibit the nature of the powers which the adepts exercise, is worth 
attention, while the rationale of such powers is still hidden from the world. 
The fact of their existence can only be established by the accumulation of 
such evidence, as long as we are unable to prove their possibility by a priori 
analysis of the latent capacities in man.  
My friend to whom the last letter was addressed wrote a long reply, and 
subsequently an additional letter for Koot Hoomi , which he forwarded to me, 
asking me to read and then seal it up and send or give it to Madame 
Blavatsky for transmission, she being expected at about that time at my 
house at Allahabad on her way down country from Amritsur and Lahore, 
where, as I have already indicated, she had stayed for some little time after 
our household broke up for the season at Simla. I did as desired, and gave the 
letter to Madame Blavatsky, after gumming and sealing the stout envelope in 
which it was forwarded. That evening, a few hours afterwards, on returning 
home to dinner, I found that the letter had gone, and had come back again. 
Madame Blavatsky told me that she had been talking to a visitor in her own 
room, and had been fingering a blue pencil on her writing-table without 
noticing what she was doing, when she suddenly noticed that the paper on 
which she was scribbling was my letter that the addressee had duly taken 
possession of, by his own methods, an hour or two before. She found that she 
had, while talking about something else, unconsciously written on the 
envelope the words which it then bore, " Read and returned with thanks, and 
a few commentaries. Please open. " I examined the envelope carefully, and it 
was absolutely intact, its very complete fastenings having remained just as I 
arranged them. Slitting it open, I found the letter which it had contained 
when I sent it, and another from Koot Hoomi to me, criticising the former 
with the help of a succession of pencil figures that referred to particular 
passages in the original letter- another illustration of the passage of matter 
through matter, which, for thousands of people who have had personal 
experience of it in Spiritualism, is as certain a fact of nature as the rising of 
the sun, and which I have now not only encountered at spiritual séances, but, 
as this record will have shown, on many occasions when there is no motive for 
suspecting any other agency than that of living beings with faculties of which 
we may all possess the undeveloped germs, though it is only in their case that 
knowledge has brought these to phenomenal fruition.  
Sceptical critics, putting aside the collateral bearing of all the previous 
phenomena I have described, and dealing with this letter incident by itself 
alone, will perhaps say- of course Madame Blavatsky had ample time to open 
the envelope by such means as the mediums who profess to get answers to 
sealed letters from the spirit world are in the habit of employing. But, firstly, 
the Jhelum telegram proof, and the inherent evidence of the whole 
correspondence show that, the letters which come to me in that which I 
recognise as Koot Hoomi 's handwriting, are not the work of Madame 
Blavatsky, at all events; secondly, let the incident I have just described be 
compared with another illustration of an exactly similar incident which 
occurred shortly afterwards under different circumstances Koot Hoomi had 
sent me a letter addressed to my friend to read and forward on. On the 
subject of this letter before sending it I had occasion to make a 
communication to Koot Hoomi . I wrote a note to him, fastened it up in an 
ordinary adhesive envelope, and gave it to Madame Blavatsky. She put it in 
her pocket, went into her own room, which opened out of the drawing room , 
and came out again almost instantly. Certainly she had not been away thirty 
seconds. She said " he " had taken it at once. Then she followed me back 
through the house to my office room, spoke for a few minutes in the adjoining 
room to my wife, and, returning into my office, lay down on a couch. I went on 
with my work, and perhaps ten minutes elapsed, perhaps less. Suddenly she 
got up. " There's your letter," she said, pointing to the pillow from which she 
had lifted her head; and there lay the letter I had just written, intact as 
regards its appearance, but with Koot Hoomi's name on the outside scored 
out and mine written over it. After a thorough examination I slit the 
envelope, and found inside, on the flyleaf of my note, the answer I required in 
Koot Hoomi's handwriting. Now, except for the thirty seconds during which 
she retired to her own room, Madame Blavatsky had not been out of my 
sight, except for a minute or two in my wife's room, during the short interval 
which elapsed between the delivery of the letter by me to her and its return 
to me as described. And during this interval no one else had come into my 
room. The incident was as absolute and complete a mechanical proof of 
abnormal power exercised to produce the result as any conceivable test could 
have yielded. Except by declaring that I cannot be describing it correctly, the 
most resolute partisan of the commonplace will be unable seriously to dispute 
the force of this incident. He may take refuge in idiotic ridicule, or he may 
declare that I am misrepresenting the facts. As regards the latter hypothesis 
I can only pledge my word, as I do hereby, to the exact accuracy of the 
statement. 
In one or two cases I have got back answers from Koot Hoomi to my letters in 
my own envelopes, these remaining intact as addressed to him, but with the 
address changed, and my letter gone from the inside, his reply having taken 
its place. In two or three cases I have found short messages from Koot Hoomi 
written across the blank parts of letters from other persons, coming to me 
through the post, the writers in these cases being assuredly unaware of the 
additions so made to their epistles.  
Of course I have asked Koot Hoomi for an explanation of these little 
phenomena, but it is easier for me to ask than for him to answer, partly 
because the forces which the adepts bring to bear upon matter to achieve 
abnormal results, are of a kind which ordinary science knows so little about 
that we of the outer world are not prepared for such explanations; and partly 
because the manipulation of the forces employed has to do, sometimes, with 
secrets of initiation which an occultist must not reveal. However, in reference 
to the subject before us, I received on one occasion this hint as an 
explanation. 
" ..........Besides, bear in mind that these my letters are not written, but 
impressed, or precipitated, and then all mistakes corrected."  
Of course I wanted to know more about such precipitation; was it a process 
which followed thought more rapidly than any with which we were familiar? 
And as regards letters received, did the meaning of these penetrate the 
understanding of an occult recipient at once, or were they read in the 
ordinary way? 
" Of course I have to read every word you write," Koot Hoomi replied, " 
otherwise I would make a fine mess of it. And whether it be through my 
physical or spiritual eyes, the time required for it is practically the same. As 
much may be said of my replies; for whether I precipitate or dictate them or 
write my answers myself, the difference in time saved is very minute. I have 
to think it over, to photograph every word and sentence carefully in my brain, 
before it can be repeated by precipitation. As the fixing on chemically 
prepared surfaces of the images formed by the camera requires a previous 
arrangement within the focus of the object to be represented, for otherwise- 
as often found in bad photographs- the legs of the sitter might appear out of 
all proportion with the head, and so on- so we have to first arrange our 
sentences and impress every letter to appear on paper in our minds before it 
becomes fit to be read. For the present it is all I can tell you. When science 
will have learned more about the mystery of the lithophyl (or litho-biblion ), 
and how the impress of leaves comes originally to take place on stones, then I 
will be able to make you better understand the process. But you must know 
and remember one thing -we but follow and servilely copy Nature in her 
works."  
In another letter Koot Hoomi expatiates more fully on the difficulty of 
making occult explanations intelligible to minds trained only in modern 
science.  
" Only the progress one makes in the study of arcane knowledge from its 
rudimental elements brings him gradually to understand our meaning. Only 
thus, and not otherwise, does it, strengthening and refining those mysterious 
links of sympathy between intelligent men- the temporarily isolated 
fragments of the universal soul, and the cosmic soul itself- bring them into 
full rapport. Once this established, then only will those awakened sympathies 
serve, indeed, to connect Man with- what, for the want of a European 
scientific word more competent to express the idea, I am again compelled to 
describe as that energetic chain which binds together the material and 
immaterial kosmos - Past, Present, and Future, and quicken his perceptions 
so as to clearly grasp not merely all things of matter, but of spirit also. I feel 
even irritated at having to use the three clumsy words - Past, Present, and 
Future. Miserable concepts of the objective phases of the subjective whole, 
they are about as ill adapted for the purpose, as an axe for fine carving. Oh, 
my poor disappointed friend, that you were already so far advanced on THE 
PATH that this simple transmission of ideas should not be encumbered by 
the conditions of matter, the union of your mind with ours prevented by its 
induced incapabilities. Such is unfortunately the inherited and self-acquired 
grossness of the Western mind, and so greatly have the very phrases 
expressive of modern thoughts been developed in the line of practical 
materialism, that it is now next to impossible, either for them to comprehend 
or for us to express in their own languages anything of that delicate, 
seemingly ideal, machinery of the occult kosmos. To some little extent that 
faculty can be acquired by the Europeans through study and meditation, but- 
that's all. And here is the bar which has hitherto prevented a conviction of 
the theosophical truths from gaining currency among Western nations - 
caused theosophical study to be cast aside as useless and fantastic by 
Western philosophers. How shall I teach you to read and write, or even 
comprehend a language off which no alphabet palpable or words audible to 
you have yet been invented. How could the phenomena of our modern 
electrical science be explained to --- say a " Greek philosopher of the days of 
Ptolemy, were he suddenly recalled to life - with such an unbridged hiatus in 
discovery as would exist between his and our age? Would not the very 
technical terms be to him an unintelligible jargon, an abracadabra of 
meaningless sounds, and the very instruments and apparatuses used but 
miraculous monstrosities? And suppose for one instant I were to describe to 
you the lines of those colour rays that lie beyond the so-called visible 
spectrum - rays invisible to all but a very few even among us; to explain how 
we can find in space anyone of the so called subjective or accidental colours - 
the complement (to speak mathematically) moreover' of any other given colour 
of a dichromatic body (which alone sounds like an absurdity) could you 
comprehend, do you think, their optical effect, or even my meaning? And 
since you see them not - such rays - nor can know them, nor have you any 
names for them as yet in science, if I were to tell you. .......' without moving 
from your writing-desk, try search for, and produce before your eyes the 
whole solar spectrum decomposed into fourteen prismatic colour -(seven 
being complementary) as it is but with the help of that occult light that you 
can see me from a distance as I see you '-what think you would be your 
answer? What would you have to reply? Would you not be likely enough to 
retort by telling me that as there never ,were but seven (now three) primary 
colours which, moreover, have never yet by any known physical process been 
seen decomposed further than the seven prismatic hues, my invitation was as 
unscientific as it was absurd? Adding that my offer to search for an 
imaginary solar complement, being no compliment to your knowledge of 
physical science- l had better, perhaps, go and search for my mythical 
dichromatic and solar 'pairs' in 'Tibet, for modern science has hitherto been 
unable to bring under any theory even so simple a phenomenon as the colours 
of all such dichromatic bodies. And yet truth knows these colours are 
objective enough.  
" So you see the insurmountable difficulties in the way of obtaining not only 
absolute, but even primary knowledge in Occult Science, for one situated as 
you are. How could you make yourself understood, command in fact, those 
semi-intelligent forces, whose means of communicating with us are not 
through spoken words, but through sounds and colours in correlations 
between the vibrations of the two ? For sound, light, and colour are the main 
factors in forming those grades of intelligences, these beings of whose very 
existence you have no conception, nor are you allowed to believe in them - 
Atheists and Christians, Materialists and Spiritualists, all bringing forward 
their respective arguments against such a belief-Science objecting stronger 
than either of these to such a degrading superstition.  
" Thus, because they cannot with one leap over the boundary walls attain to 
the pinnacles of Eternity- because we cannot take a savage from the centre of 
Africa and make him comprehend at once the' Principia' of Newton, or the' 
Sociology' of Herbert Spencer, or make an unlettered child write a new " Iliad 
in old Achaian Greek, or an ordinary painter depict scenes in Saturn, or 
sketch the inhabitants of Arcturus- because if all this our very existence is 
denied. Yes, for this reason are believers in us pronounced impostors and 
fools, and the very science which leads to the highest goal of the highest 
knowledge, to the real tasting of the Tree of Life and Wisdom - is scouted as a 
wild flight of imagination."  
The following passage occurs in another letter, but it adheres naturally 
enough to the extract just concluded. 
" The truths and mysteries of occultism constitute, indeed, a body of the 
highest spiritual importance, at once profound and practical for the world at 
large. Yet it is not as an addition to the tangled mass of theory or speculation 
that they are being given to you, but for their practical bearing on the 
interests of mankind. The terms Unscientific, Impossible, Hallucination, 
Imposture, have hitherto been used in a very loose, careless way, as implying 
in the occult phenomena something either mysterious and abnormal, or a 
premeditated imposture. And this is why our chiefs have determined to shed 
upon a few recipient minds more light upon the subject, and to prove to them 
that such manifestations are as reducible to law as the simplest phenomena 
in the physical universe. The wiseacres say,' the age of miracles is past', but 
we answer, ' it never existed.' While not unparalleled or without their 
counterpart in universal history, these phenomena must and will come with 
an overpowering influence upon the world of sceptics and bigots. They have to 
prove both destructive and constructive - destructive in the pernicious errors 
of the past, in the old creeds and superstitions which suffocate in their 
poisonous embrace, like the Mexican weed, nigh all mankind ; but 
constructive of new institutions of a genuine, practical Brotherhood of 
Humanity, where all will become co-workers of Nature, will work for the good 
of mankind, with and through the higher planetary spirits, the only spirits we 
believe in. Phenomenal elements previously unthought of, undreamed of, will 
soon begin manifesting themselves day by day with constantly augmented 
force, and disclose at last the secrets of their mysterious workings. Plato was 
right. [See Appendix D.] Ideas rule the world ; and as men's minds will 
receive new ideas, leaving aside the old and effete, the world will advance, 
mighty revolutions will spring from them, creeds and even powers will 
crumble before their onward march, crushed by their Irresistible force. It will 
be just as impossible to resist their influence when the time comes as to stay 
the progress of the tide. But all this will come gradually on, and before it 
comes we have a duty set before us: that of sweeping away as much as 
possible the dross left to us by our pious forefathers. New ideas have to be 
planted on clean places, for these ideas touch upon the most momentous 
subjects. It is not physical phenomena, but these universal ideas, that we 
study; as to comprehend the former, we have first to understand the latter. 
They touch man's true position in the universe in relation to his previous and 
future births, his origin and ultimate destiny; the relation of the mortal to the 
immortal, of the temporary to the eternal, of the finite to the infinite; ideas 
larger, grander, more comprehensive, recognising the eternal reign of 
immutable law, unchanging and unchangeable, in regard to which there is 
only an ETERNAL Now : while to uninitiated mortals, time is past or future, 
as related to their finite existence on this material speck of dirt. This is what 
we study and what many have solved........ Meanwhile, being human, I have 
to rest. I took no sleep for over sixty hours."  
Here are It few lines from Koot Hoomi's hand, in a letter not addressed to me, 
It fall conveniently into the present series of extracts.  
" Be it as it may, we are content to live as we do, unknown and undisturbed 
by a civilization which rests so exclusively upon intellect. Nor do we feel in 
any way concerned about the revival of our ancient art and high civilization, 
for these are as sure to come back in their time, and in a higher form, as the 
Plesiosaurus and the Megatherium in theirs. We have the weakness to 
believe in ever-recurrent cycles, and hope to quicken the resurrection of what 
is past and gone. We could not impede it, even if we would. The new 
civilization will be but the child of the old one, and we have but to leave the 
eternal law to take its own course, to have our dead ones come out of their 
graves; yet we are certainly anxious to hasten the welcome event. Fear not, 
although we do 'cling superstitiously to the relics of the past', our knowledge 
will not pass away from the sight of man. It is , the gift of the gods,' and the 
most precious relic of all. The keepers of the sacred light did not safely cross 
so many ages but to find themselves wrecked on the rocks of modern 
scepticism. Our pilots are too experienced sailors to allow us to fear any such 
disaster. We will always find volunteers to replace the tired sentries, and the 
world, bad as it is in its present state of transitory period, can yet furnish us 
with a few men now and then."  
Turning back to my own correspondence, and to the latest letter I received 
from Koot Hoomi before leaving India on the trip home during which I am 
writing these pages, I read :-  
" I hope that at least you will understand that we ( or most of us) are far from 
being the heartless morally dried-up mummies some would fancy us to be. 
Mejnour is very well where he is-as an ideal character of a thrilling, in many 
respects truthful story. Yet, believe me, few of us would care to play the part 
in life of a desiccated pansy between the leaves of a volume of solemn poetry. 
We may not be quite' the boys' to quote -----'s irreverent expression when 
speaking of us, yet none of our degree are like the stern hero of Bulwer's 
romance. While the facilities of observation secured to some of us by our 
condition certainly give a greater breadth of view, a more pronounced and 
impartial, a more widely spread humaneness- for answering Addison, we 
might justly maintain that it is the business of "magic " to humanize our 
natures with compassion' -for the whole mankind as all living beings, instead 
of concentrating and limiting our affections to one predilected race- yet few of 
us (except such as have attained the final negation of Moksha) can so far 
enfranchise ourselves from the influence of our earthly connection as to be 
unsusceptible in various degrees to the higher pleasures, emotions, and 
interests of the common run of humanity. Of course the greater the progress 
towards deliverance, the less this will be the case, until, to crown all, human 
and purely individual personal feelings, blood-ties and friendship, patriotism 
and race predilection, will all give way to become blended into one universal 
feeling, the only true and holy, the only unselfish and eternal one - Love, an 
Immense Love for humanity as a whole. For it is humanity which is the great 
orphan, the only disinherited one upon this earth, my friend. And it is the 
duty of every man who is capable of an unselfish impulse to do something, 
however little, for its welfare. It reminds me of the old fable of the war 
between the body and its members ; here, too, each limb of this huge' orphan,' 
fatherless and motherless, selfishly cares but for itself, The body, uncared for, 
suffers eternally whether the limbs are at war or at rest. Its suffering and 
agony never cease; and who can blame it-as your materialistic philosophers 
do- if, in this everlasting isolation and neglect, it has evolved gods into whom 
'it ever cries for help, but is not heard.' Thus-  
'Since there is hope for man only in man,  
I would not let one cry whom I could save. '  
Yet I confess that I individually am not yet exempt from some of the 
terrestrial attachments. I am still attracted toward some men more than 
towards others, and philanthropy as preached by our great Patron 
"...................The Saviour of the world,  
The teacher of Nirvana and the Law  
'.,; has never killed in me either individual preferences of friendship, love for 
my next of kin, or the ardent feeling of patriotism for the country in which I 
was last materially individualised."  
I had asked Koot Hoomi how far I was at liberty to use his letters in the 
preparation of this volume, and, a few lines after the passage just quoted, he 
says :-  
" I lay no restrictions upon your making use of anything I may have written 
to you or Mr. ----- having full confidence in your tact and judgment as to what 
should be printed, and how it should be presented. I must only ask you. ..." 
and then he goes on to indicate one letter which he wishes me to 
withhold......" As to the rest, I relinquish it to the mangling tooth of criticism."  
TEACHINGS OF OCCULT PHILOSOPHY 
As affirmed more than once already, Occult Philosophy in various countries 
and through different periods has remained substantially the same. At 
different times and places very different mythological efflorescences have 
been thrown off for the service of the populace; but, underlying each popular 
religion, the religious knowledge of the initiated minority has been identical. 
Of course, the modern Western conception of what is right in such matters 
will be outraged by the mere idea of a religion which is kept as the property 
of the few, while a" false religion, " as modern phraseology would put it is 
served out to the common people. However, before this feeling is permitted to 
land us in too uncompromising disapproval of the ancient hiders of the truth, 
it may be well to determine how far it is due to any intelligent conviction that 
the common herd would be benefited by teaching, which must be in its nature 
too refined and subtle for popular comprehension, and how far the feeling 
referred to, may be due to an acquired habit of looking on religion as 
something which it is important to profess, irrespective of understanding it. 
No doubt, assuming that a man's eternal welfare depends upon his 
declaration, irrespective of comprehension, of the right faith, among all the 
faiths he might have picked out from the lucky bag of birth and destiny- then 
it would be the sovereign duty of persons conscious of possessing such a faith 
to proclaim it from the housetops. But, on the other hypothesis, that it cannot 
profit any man to mutter a formula of words without attaching sense to it, 
and that crude intelligences can only be approached by crude sketches of 
religious ideas, there is more to be advanced on behalf of the ancient policy of 
reserve than seems at first sight obvious. Certainly the relations of the 
populace and the initiates, look susceptible of modification in the European 
world of the present day. The populace, in the sense of the public at large, 
including the finest intellects of the age, are at least as well able as those of 
any special class to comprehend metaphysical ideas. These finer intellects 
dominate public thought, so that no great ideas can triumph among the 
nations of Europe without their aid, while their aid can only be secured in the 
open market of intellectual competition. Thus it ensues that the bare notion 
of an esoteric science superior to that offered in public to the scientific world, 
strikes the modern Western mind as an absurdity. With which very natural 
feeling it is only necessary at present here to fight, so far as to ask people not 
to be illogical in its application; that is to say, not to assume that because it 
would never occur to a modern European coming into possession of a new 
truth to make a secret of it, and disclose it only to a fraternity under pledges 
of reserve, therefore such an idea could never have occurred to an Egyptian 
priest or an intellectual giant of the civilization which overspread India, 
according to some not unreasonable hypotheses, before Egypt began to be a 
seat of learning and art. The secret society system was as natural, indeed, to 
the ancient man of science, as the public system is in our own country and 
time. Nor is the difference one of time and fashion merely. It hinges on to the 
great difference that is to be discerned in the essence of the pursuits in which 
learned men engage now, as compared with those they were concerned with 
in former ages. We have belonged to the material progress epoch, and the 
watchword of material progress has always been publicity. The initiates of 
ancient psychology belonged to the spiritual age, and the watchword of 
subjective development has always been secrecy. Whether in both cases the 
watchword is dictated by necessities of the situation is a question on which 
discussion might be possible ; but, at all events, these reflections are enough 
to show that it would be unwise to dogmatize too confidently on the character 
of the philosophy and the philosophers who could be content to hoard their 
wisdom and supply the crowd with a religion adapted rather to the 
understanding of its recipients than to those eternal verities.  
It is impossible now to form a conjecture as to the date or time at which 
occult philosophy began to take the shape in which we find it now. But 
though it may be reasonably guessed that, the last two or three thousand 
years have not passed over the devoted initiates who have held and 
transmitted it during that time, without their having contributed something 
towards its development, the proficiency of initiates belonging to the earliest 
periods with which history deals, appears to have been already so far 
advanced, and so nearly as wonderful as the proficiency of initiates in the 
present day, that we must assign a very great antiquity to the earliest 
beginnings of occult knowledge on this earth. Indeed the question cannot be 
raised without bringing us in contact with considerations that hint at 
absolutely startling conclusions in this respect.  
But, apart from specific archaeological speculations, it has been pointed out 
that " a philosophy so profound, a moral code so ennobling, and practical 
results so conclusive and so uniformly demonstrable, are not the growth of a 
generation, or even a single epoch. Fact must have been piled upon fact, 
deduction upon deduction, science have begotten science, and myriads of the 
brightest human intellects have reflected upon the laws of Nature, before this 
ancient doctrine had taken concrete shape. The proofs of this identity of 
fundamental doctrine in the old religions are found in the prevalence of a 
system of initiation; in the secret sacerdotal castes, who had the 
guardianship of mystical words of power, and a public display of a 
phenomenal control over natural forces indicating association with preter
human beings. Every approach to the mysteries of all these nations, was 
guarded with the same jealous care, and in all the penalty of death was 
inflicted upon all initiates of any degree who divulged the secrets entrusted to 
them." The book just quoted shows this to have been the case with the 
Eleusinian and Bacchic Mysteries among the Chaldean Magi and the 
Egyptian Hierophants. The Hindu book of Brahminical ceremonies, the 
"Agrushada Parikshai," contains the same law, which appears also to have 
been adopted by the Essenes, the Gnostics, and the Theurgic Neo-Platonists. 
Freemasonry has copied the old formula, though its raison d'être has expired 
here with the expiration from among freemasons of the occult philosophy on 
which their forms and ceremonies are shaped to a larger extent than they 
generally conceive. Evidences of the identity spoken of may be traced in the 
vows, formulas, rites, and doctrines of various ancient faiths, and it is 
affirmed by those whom I believe qualified to speak with authority as to the 
fact, " that not only is their memory still preserved in India; but also that the 
secret association is still alive, and as active as ever."  
As I have now, in support of the views just expressed, to make some 
quotations from Madame Blavatsky's great book, " Isis Unveiled," it is 
necessary to give certain explanations concerning the genesis of that work, 
for which the reader who has followed my narrative of occult experiences 
through the preceding pages, will be better prepared than he would have 
been previously. I have shown how, throughout the most ordinary incidents 
of her daily life, Madame Blavatsky is constantly in communication, by 
means of the system of psychological telegraphy that the initiates employ, 
with her superior " Brothers " in occultism. This state of the facts once 
realised, it will be easy to understand that in compiling such a work as " Isis," 
which embodies a complete explanation of 'all that can be told about 
occultism to the outer world, she would not be left exclusively to her own 
resources, The truth which Madame Blavatsky would be the last person in 
the world to wish disguised, is that the assistance she derived from the 
Brothers, by occult agency, throughout the composition of her book, was so 
abundant and continuous that she is not so much the author of " Isis" as one 
of a group of collaborateurs, by whom it was actually produced. I am given to 
understand that she set to work on " Isis" without knowing anything about 
the magnitude of the task she was undertaking, She began writing to 
dictation- the passages thus written not now standing first in the completed 
volumes-in compliance with the desire of her occult friends, and without 
knowing whether the composition on which she was engaged would turn out 
an article for a newspaper, or an essay for a magazine, or a work of larger 
dimensions. But on and on it grew. Before going very far, of course, she came 
to understand what she was about; and fairly launched on her task, she in 
turn contributed a good deal from her own natural brain. But the Brothers 
appear always to have 'been at work with her, not merely dictating through 
her brain as at first, but sometimes employing those methods of" 
precipitation " of which I have myself been favoured with some examples, and 
by means of which quantities of actual manuscript in other handwritings 
than her own were produced while she slept. In the morning she would 
sometimes get up and find as much as thirty slips added to the manuscript 
she had left on her table overnight. The book " Isis " is in fact as great a " 
phenomenon "-apart from the nature of its contents- as any of those I have 
described.  
The faults of the book, obvious to the general reader, will be thus explained, 
as well as the extraordinary value it possesses for those who may be anxious 
to explore as far as possible the mysteries of occultism. The deific powers 
which the Brothers enjoy cannot protect a literary work which is the joint 
production of several-even among their minds, from the confusion of 
arrangement to which such a mode of composition inevitably gives rise. And 
besides confusion of arrangement, the book exhibits a heterogeneous variety 
of different styles, which mars its dignity as a literary work, and must prove 
both irritating and puzzling to the ordinary reader. But for those who possess 
the key to this irregularity of form, it is an advantage rather than otherwise. 
It will enable an acute reader to account for some minor incongruities of 
statement occurring in different parts of the book. Beyond this it will enable 
him to recognise the voice, as it were, of the different authors as they take up 
the parable in turn.  
The book was written-as regards its physical production-at New York, where 
Madame Blavatsky was utterly unprovided with books of reference. It teems, 
however, with references to books of all sorts, including many of a very 
unusual character', and with quotations the exactitude of which may easily 
be verified at the great European libraries, as footnotes supply the number of 
the pages, from which the passages taken are quoted.  
I may now go on to collect some passages from " Isis, " the object of which is 
to show the unity of the esoteric philosophy underlying various ancient 
religions, and the peculiar value which attaches for students of that 
philosophy, to pure Buddhism, a system which, of all those presented to the 
world, appears to supply us with occult philosophy in its least adulterated 
shape. Of course, the reader will guard himself from running away with the 
idea that Buddhism, as explained by writers who are not occultists, can be 
accepted as an embodiment of their views. For example, one of the leading 
ideas of Buddhism, as interpreted by Western scholars, is that " Nirvana " 
amounts to annihilation. It is possible that Western scholars may be right in 
saying that the explanation of" Nirvana " supplied by exoteric Buddhism 
leads to this conclusion; but that, at all events, is not the occult doctrine.  
" Nirvana, " it is stated in " Isis, " " means the certitude of personal 
immortality in spirit, not in soul, which, as a finite emanation, must certainly 
disintegrate its particles, a compound of human sensations, passions, and 
yearning for some objective kind of existence, before the immortal spirit of 
the Ego is quite freed, and henceforth secure against transmigration in any 
form. And how can man reach that state so long as the 'Upadana' that state 
of longing for life, more life, does not disappear from the sentient being, from 
the Ahancara clothed, however, in a sublimated body? It is the 'Upadana" , or 
the intense desire that produces will, and it is will which develops force, and 
the latter generates matter, or an object having form. Thus the disembodied 
Ego, through this sole undying desire in him, unconsciously furnishes the 
conditions of his successive self-procreations in various forms, which depend 
on his mental, state, and 'Karma', the good or bad deeds of his preceding 
existence, commonly called' merit' and 'demerit.' " There is a world of 
suggestive metaphysical thought in this passage, which will serve at once to 
justify the view propounded just now as regards the reach of Buddhistic 
philosophy as viewed from the occult standpoint.  
The misunderstanding about the meaning of " Nirvana" is so general in the 
West, that before going on with explanations of the philosophy which this 
same misunderstanding has improperly discredited, it will be well :to 
consider the following elucidation also :-  
" Annihilation means with the Buddhistical philosophy only a dispersion of 
matter, in whatever form or semblance of form it may be; for every thing that 
bears a shape was created, and thus must sooner or later perish, i.e., change 
that shape; therefore, as something temporary, though seeming to be 
permanent, it is but an illusion, 'Maya' ; for as eternity has neither beginning 
nor end, the more or less prolonged duration of some particular form passes, 
as it were, like an instantaneous flash of lightning. Before we have the time 
to realise that we have seen it, it has gone and passed away forever; hence 
even our astral bodies, pure ether; are but illusions of matter so long as they 
retain their terrestrial outline. The latter changes, says the Buddhist, 
according to the merits or demerit of the person during his lifetime, and this 
is metempsychosis. When the spiritual entity breaks loose for ever from every 
particle of matter, then only it enters upon the eternal and unchangeable 
'Nirvana'. He exists in spirit, in nothing; as a form, a shape, a semblance, he 
is completely annihilated, and thus will die no more ; for spirit alone is no' 
Maya' but the only reality in an illusionary universe of ever-passing forms. 
...To accuse Buddhistical philosophy of rejecting a Supreme Being-God, and 
the soul's immortality-of Atheism, in short- on the ground that 'Nirvana' 
means annihilation, and' Svabha vat' is not a person, but nothing, is simply 
absurd. The En (or Aym) of the Jewish Ensoph also means nihil, or nothing, 
that which is not (quo ad nos), but no one bas ever ventured to twit the Jews 
with atheism. In both cases the real meaning of the term nothing carries with 
it the idea that God is not a thing, not a concrete or visible being to which a 
name expressive of any object known to us on earth may be applied with 
propriety."  
Again: " 'Nirvana' is the world of cause in which all deceptive effects or 
illusions of our senses disappear. 'Nirvana' is the highest attainable 
sphere."The secret doctrines of the Magi of the pre-Vedic Buddhists, of the 
hierophants of the Egyptian Thoth or Hermes, were we find it laid down in " 
Isis"-identical from the beginning, an identity that applied equally to the 
secret doctrines of the adepts of whatever age or nationality, including the 
Chaldean Kabalists and the Jewish Nazars. " When we use the word 
Buddhists, we do not mean to imply by it either the exoteric Buddhism 
instituted by the followers of Gautama Buddha, or the modern Buddhistic 
religion, but the secret philosophy of Sakyamuni, which, in its essence, is 
certainly identical with the ancient wisdom-religion of the sanctuary- the pre
vedic Brahmanisn. The schism of Zoroaster, as it is called, is a direct proof of 
it: for it was no schism, strictly speaking, but merely a partially public 
exposition of strictly monotheistic religious truths hitherto taught only in the 
sanctuaries, and that he had learned from the Brahmans. Zoroaster, the 
primeval institution of sun-worship, cannot be called the founder of the 
dualistic system, neither was he the first to teach the unity of God, for he 
taught but what he had learned himself from the Brahmans, And that 
Zarathustra, and his followers the Zoroastrians, had been settled in India 
before they immigrated into Persia, is also proved by Max Muller. ' That the 
Zoroastrians and their ancestors started from India,' he says. ' during the 
Vaidic period, can be proved as distinctly as that the inhabitants of Massilia 
started from Greece...........Many of the gods of the Zoroastrians come out......., 
as mere reflections and deflections of the gods of the Veda.'  
" If, now, we can prove, and we ban do so on the evidence of the' Kabala,' and 
the oldest traditions of the wisdom religion, the philosophy of the old 
sanctuaries, that all these gods, whether of the Zoroastrians or of the Veda, 
are but so many personated occult powers of Nature, the faithful servants of 
the adepts of secret wisdom -magic -we are on secure ground.  
" Thus; whether we say that Kabalism and Gnosticism proceeded from 
Masdeanism or Zoroastrianism, it is all the same, unless we meant the 
exoteric worship, which we do not. Likewise, and in this sense we may echo 
King, the author of the' Gnostics,' and several other archaeologists, and 
maintain that both the former proceeded from Buddhism, at once the 
simplest and most satisfying of philosophies, and which resulted in one of the 
purest religions in the world. , ..But whether among the Essenes or the Neo
Platonists, or again among the innumerable struggling sects born but to die, 
the same doctrine, identical in substance and spirit, if not always in form, are 
encountered. By Buddhism, therefore, we mean that religion signifying 
literally the doctrine of wisdom, and which by many ages antedates the 
metaphysical philosophy of Siddhartha Sakyamuni,"  
Modern Christianity has, of course, diverged widely from its own original 
philosophy, but the identity of this with the original philosophy of all 
religions is maintained in " Isis " in the course of an interesting argument.  
" Luke, who was a physician, is designated in the Syriac texts as Asaia, the 
Essaian or Essene. Josephus and Philo Judreus have sufficiently described 
this sect to leave no doubt in our mind that the Nazarene Reformer, after 
having received his education in their dwellings in the desert, and being duly 
initiated in the mysteries, preferred the free and independent life of a 
wandering Nazaria, and so separated, or inazarenized, himself, from them, 
thus becoming a travelling Therapeute, or Nazaria, a healer ... In his 
discourses and sermons Jesus always spoke in parables, and used metaphors 
with his audience. This habit was again that of the Essenians and the 
Nazarenes; the Galileans, who dwelt in cities and villages, were never known 
to use such allegorical language. Indeed, some of his disciples, being 
Galileans as well as himself, felt even surprised to find him using with the 
people such a form of expression. ' Why speakest thou unto them in parables 
? ' they often inquired'. Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of 
the kingdom of Heaven; but to them it is not given,' was the reply, which was 
that of an initiate. ' Therefore, I speak unto them in parables, because they 
seeing, see not, and hearing, they hear not, neither do they understand.' 
Moreover, we find Jesus expressing his thoughts ... in sentences which are 
purely Pythagorean, when, during the Sermon on the Mount, he says, 'Give 
ye not that which is sacred to the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before 
swine; for the swine will tread them under their feet, and the dogs will turn 
and rend you.' Professor A. Wilder, the editor of Taylor's' Eleusillian 
Mysteries, , observes a' like disposition on the part of Jesus and Paul to 
classify their doctrines as esoteric and exoteric- the mysteries of the Kingdom 
of God for the apostles, and parables for the multitude'. We speak wisdom, 
says Paul, 'among them that are perfect,' or' initiated. ' In the Eleusinian and 
other mysteries the participants were always divided in two classes, the 
neophytes and the perfect. ...The narrative of the Apostle Paul in his Second 
Epistle to the Corinthians, has struck several scholars well versed in 'the 
descriptions of the mystical rites of the initiation given by some classes as all 
ending most undoubtedly to the final Epopteia: ' I know a certain man- 
whether in body or outside of body I know not; God knoweth- who was rapt 
into Paradise, and heard things ineffable which it is not lawful for a man to 
repeat.' These words have rarely, so far as we know, been regarded by 
commentators as an allusion 'to the beatific visions of an initiated seer; but 
the phraseology is unequivocal'. These things which it is not lawful to repeat, 
are hinted at in the same words, and the reason assigned for it is the same as 
that which we find repeatedly expressed by Plato, Proclus, Jamblichus, 
Herodotus, and other classics. ' We speak wisdom only among them that are 
perfect,' says Paul; the plain and undeniable translation of the sentence 
being: ' We speak of the profounder or final esoteric doctrines of the mysteries 
(which are denominated wisdom), only among them who alone initiated. So in 
relation to the man who was rapt into Paradise- and who was evidently Paul 
himself- the Christian word Paradise having replaced that of Elysium."  
The final purposes of occult philosophy is to show what Man was, is, and will 
be. " That which survives as an individuality," says' Isis,' " after the death of 
the body is the actual soul, which Plato, in the Timaeus and Gorgias calls the 
mortal soul; for, according to the Hermetic doctrine, it throws off the more 
material particles at every progressive change into a higher sphere. The 
astral spirit is a faithful duplicate of the body in a physical and spiritual 
sense. The Divine, the highest immortal spirit, can be neither punished nor 
rewarded. To maintain such a doctrine would be at the same time absurd and 
blasphemous; for it is not merely a flame lit at the central and 
inextinguishable fountain of light, but actually a portion of it and of identical 
essence. It assures immortality to the individual astral being in proportion to 
the willingness of the latter to receive it. So long as the double man- i.e., the 
man of flesh and spirit- keeps within the limits of the law of spiritual 
continuity; so long as the divine spark lingers in him, however faint]y, he is 
on the road to an immortality in the future state. But those who resign 
themselves to a materialistic existence, shutting out the divine radiance shed 
by their spirit, at the beginning of their earthly pilgrimage, and stifling the 
warning voice of that faithful sentry the conscience, which serves as a focus 
for the light in the soul- such beings as these, having left behind conscience 
and spirit, and crossed the boundaries of matter, will, of necessity, have to 
follow its laws."  
Again. " The secret doctrine teaches that man, if he wins immortality, will 
remain for ever the trinity that he is in life, and will continue so throughout 
all the spheres. The astral] body, which in this life is covered by a gross 
physical envelope, becomes, when relieved of that covering by the process of 
corporeal death, in its turn the shell of another and more ethereal body. This 
begins developing from the moment of death, and becomes perfected when 
the astral body of the earthly form finally separates from it."  
The passages quoted, when read by the light of the explanations I have given, 
will enable the reader, if so inclined, to take up " Isis " in a comprehending 
spirit, and find his way to the rich veins of precious metal which are buried in 
its pages. But neither in " Isis " nor in any other book on occult philosophy 
which has been or seems likely to be written yet awhile, must anyone hope to 
obtain a cut-and-dried, straightforward, and perfectly clear account of the 
mysteries of birth, death, and the future. At first, in pursuing studies of this 
kind, one is irritated at the difficulty of getting at what the occultists really 
believe as regards the future state, the nature of the life to come, and its 
general mise en scène. The well known religions have very precise views on 
these subjects, further rendered practical by the assurance some of them give 
that qualified persons, commissioned by churches to perform the duty, can 
shunt departing souls on to the right or the wrong lines, in accordance with 
consideration received. Theories of that kind have at any rate the merit of 
simplicity and intelligibility, but they are not, perhaps, satisfactory to the 
mind as regards their details. After a very little investigation of the matter, 
the student of occult philosophy will realise that on that path of knowledge he 
will certainly meet with no conceptions likely to outrage his purest 
idealisation of God and the life to come. He will soon feel that the scheme of 
ideas he is exploring is lofty and dignified to the utmost limits that the 
human understanding can reach. But it will remain vague, and he will seek 
for explicit statements on this or that point, until by degrees he realises that 
the absolute truth about the origin and destinies of the human soul may be 
too subtle and intricate to be possibly expressible in straightforward 
language. Perfectly clear ideas may be attainable for the purified minds of 
advanced scholars in occultism, who, by entire devotion of every faculty to the 
pursuit and prolonged assimilation of such ideas, come at length to 
understand them with the aid of peculiar intellectual powers specially 
expanded for the purpose ; but it does not at all follow that with the best will 
in the world such persons must necessarily be able to draw up an occult creed 
which should bring the whole theory of the universe into the compass of a 
dozen lines. The study of occultism, even by men of the world, engaged in 
ordinary pursuits as well, may readily enlarge and purify the understanding, 
to the extent of arming the mind, so to speak, with tests that will detect 
absurdity in any erroneous religious hypotheses ; but the absolute structure 
of occult belief is something which, from its nature, can only be built up 
slowly in the mind of each intellectual architect. And I imagine that a very 
vivid perception of this on their part explains the reluctance of occultists even 
to attempt the straight- forward explanation of their doctrines. They know 
that really vital plants of knowledge, so to speak, must grow up from the 
germ in each man's mind, and cannot be transplanted into the strange soil of 
an untrained understanding in a complete state of mature growth. They are 
ready enough to supply seed, but every man must grow his own tree of 
knowledge for himself. As the adept himself is not made, but becomes so, -in 
a minor degree, the person who merely aspires to comprehend the adept and 
his views of things must develop such comprehension for himself, by thinking 
out rudimentary ideas to their legitimate conclusions.  
These considerations fit in with, and do something towards elucidating, the 
reserve of occultism, and they further suggest an explanation of what will at 
once seem puzzling to a reader of" Isis," who takes it up by the light of the 
present narrative. If great parts of the book, as I have asserted, are really the 
work of actual adepts, who know of their own knowledge what is the actual 
truth about many of the mysteries discussed, why have they not said plainly 
what they meant, instead of beating about the bush, and suggesting 
arguments derived from this or that ordinary source, from literary or 
historical evidence, from abstract speculation concerning the harmonies of 
Nature? The answer seems to be, firstly, that they could not well write, " We 
know that so and so is the fact," without being asked, " How do you know ?"
and it is manifestly impossible that they could reply to this question without 
going into details, that it would be " unlawful," as a Biblical writer would say, 
to disclose, or without proposing to guarantee their testimony by 
manifestations of powers which it would be obviously impracticable for them 
to keep always at hand for the satisfaction of each reader of the book in turn. 
Secondly, I imagine that, in accordance with the invariable principle of trying 
less to teach than to encourage spontaneous development, they have aimed in 
" Isis," rather at producing an effect on the reader's mind, than at shooting in 
a store of previously accumulated facts. They have shown that Theosophy, or 
Occult Philosophy, is no new candidate for the world's attention, but is really 
a restatement of principles which have been recognised from the very infancy 
of mankind. The historic sequence which establishes this view is distinctly 
traced through the successive evolution's of the philosophical schools, in a 
manner which it is impossible for me to attempt in a work of these 
dimensions, and the theory laid down is illustrated with abundant accounts 
of the experimental demonstrations of occult power ascribed to various 
thaumaturgists. The authors of " Isis," have expressly refrained from saying 
more than might conceivably be said by a writer who was not an adept, 
supposing him to have access to all the literature of the subject and an 
enlightened comprehension of its meaning.  
But once realise the real position of the authors or inspirers of " Isis," and the 
value of any argument on which you find them launched is enhanced 
enormously above the level of the relatively commonplace considerations 
advanced on its behalf. The adepts may not choose to bring forward other 
than exoteric evidence in favour of any particular thesis they wish to support, 
but if they wish to support it, that fact alone will be of enormous significance 
for any reader who, in indirect ways, has reached a comprehension of the 
authority with which they are entitled to speak.  
LATER OCCULT PHENOMENA 
[ Added to the second English edition.] 
I CANNOT let a second edition of this book appear without recording some, 
at least, of the experiences which have befallen me since its preparation. The 
most important of these, indeed, are concerned with fragmentary instruction 
I have been privileged to receive from the Brothers in reference to the great 
truths of cosmology which their spiritual insight has enabled them to 
penetrate. But the exposition even of the little, relatively, that I have learned 
on this head would exact a more elaborate treatise than I can attempt at 
present.[ Subsequently published as Esoteric Buddhism. ] And the purpose of 
the present volume is to expound the outer facts of the situation rather than 
to analyse a system of philosophy. This is not entirely inaccessible to exoteric 
students, apart from what may be regarded as direct revelation from the 
Brothers. Though almost all existing occult literature is unattractive in its 
form, and rendered purposely obscure by the use of an elaborate symbology, 
it does contain a great deal of information that can be distilled from the mass 
by the application of sufficient patience. Some industrious students of that 
literature have proved this. Whether the masters of occult philosophy will 
ultimately consent to the complete exposition in plain language of the state of 
the facts regarding the spiritual constitution of Man, remains to be seen. 
Certainly, even if they are still reticent in a way that no ordinary observer 
can comprehend, they are more disposed to be communicative at this moment 
than they have been for a long time past.  
But the first thing to do is to dissipate as much as possible the dogged 
disbelief that encrusts the Western mind as to the existence of any abnormal 
persons who can be regarded as masters of True Philosophy -distinguished 
from all the speculations that have tormented the world - and as to the 
abnormal nature of their faculties. I have endeavored already to point out 
plainly, but may as well here emphasise the reason why I dwell upon, the 
phenomena which exhibit these faculties. Rightly regarded, these are the 
credentials of the spiritual teaching which their authors supply. Firstly, 
indeed, in themselves abnormal phenomena accomplished by the willpower of 
living men must be intensely interesting for every one endowed with an 
honest love of science. They open out new scientific horizons. It is as certain 
as the sun's next rising that the forward pressure of scientific discovery, 
advancing slowly as it does in its own grooves, will ultimately, and probably 
at no very distant date, introduce the ordinary world to some of the superior 
scientific knowledge already enjoyed by the masters of occultism. Faculties 
will be acquired by exoteric investigation that will bring the outworks of 
science a step or two nearer the comprehension of some of the phenomena I 
have described in the present volume. And meanwhile it seems to me very 
interesting to get a glimpse beforehand of achievements which we should 
probably find engaging the eager attention of a future generation, if we really 
could, as Tennyson suggests -  -" sleep through terms of mighty wars,  
And wake on science grown to more,  
On secrets of the brain, the stars,  
As wild as aught of fairy lore."  
But even superior to their scientific interest is the importance of the lesson 
conveyed by occult phenomena, when these distinctly place their authors in a 
commanding position of intellectual superiority as compared with the world 
at large. They show most undeniably that these men have gone far ahead of 
their contemporaries in a comprehension of Nature as exemplified in this 
world; that they have acquired the power of cognizing events by other means 
than the material senses; that while their bodies are at one place, their 
perceptions may be at another, and that they have consequently solved the 
great problem as to whether the Ego of man is a something distinct from his 
perishable frame. From all other teachers we can but find out what has been 
thought probable in reference to the soul or spirit of man : from them we can 
find out what is the fact; and if that is not a sublime subject of inquiry, surely 
it would be difficult to say what is. But we cannot read poetry till we have 
learned the alphabet; and, if the combinations b-a ba, and so on are found to 
be insufferably trivial and uninteresting, the fastidious person who objects to 
such foolishness will certainly never be able to read the " Idylls of the King."  
So I return from the clouds to my patient record of phenomena, and to the 
incidents which have confirmed the experiences and conclusions set forth in 
the previous chapter of this book, since my return to India.  
The very first incident which took place was in the nature of a pleasant 
greeting from my revered friend, Koot Hoomi. I had written to him (per 
Madame Blavatsky, of course) shortly before leaving London, and had 
expected to find a letter from him awaiting my arrival at Bombay. But no 
such letter had been received, as I found when I reached the headquarters of 
the Theosophical Society, where I had arranged to stay for a few days before 
going on to my destination up country. I got in late at night, and nothing 
remarkable happened then. The following morning, after breakfast, I was 
sitting talking with Madame Blavatsky in the room that had been allotted to 
me. We were sitting at different sides of a large square table in the middle of 
the room, and the full daylight was shining. There was no one else in the 
room. Suddenly, down upon the table before me, but to my right hand, 
Madame Blavatsky being to my left, there fell a thick letter. It fell "out of 
nothing", so to speak; it was materialised, or reintegrated in the air before my 
eyes. It was Koot Hoomi's expected reply, -a deeply interesting letter, partly 
concerned with private matters and replies to questions of mine, and partly 
with some large, though as yet shadowy , revelations of occult philosophy, the 
first sketch of this that I had received. Now, of course, I know what some 
readers will say to this (with a self-satisfied smile) -" wires, springs, 
concealed apparatus," and so forth; but first all the suggestion would have 
been grotesquely absurd to anyone who had been present; and secondly, it is 
unnecessary to argue about objections of this sort all over again ab initio 
every time. There were no more wires and springs about the room I am now 
referring to, than about the breezy hilltops at Simla, where some of our 
earlier phenomena took place. I may add, moreover, that some months later 
an occult note was dropped before a friend of mine, a Bengal civilian, who has 
become an active member of the Theosophical Society, at a dak bungalow in 
the north of India; and that later again, at the headquarters of the 
Theosophical Society at Bombay, a letter was dropped, according to a 
previous promise, out in the open air in the presence of six or seven 
witnesses.  
For some time the gift of the letter from Koot Hoomi in the way I have 
described was the only phenomenon accorded to me, and, although my 
correspondence continued, I was not encouraged to expect any further 
displays of abnormal power. The higher authorities of the occult world, 
indeed, had by this time put a very much more stringent prohibition upon 
such manifestations than had been in operation the previous summer at 
Simla. The effect of the manifestations then accorded was not considered to 
have been satisfactory on the whole. A good deal of acrimonious discussion 
and bad feeling had ensued; and I imagine that this was conceived to 
outweigh, in its injurious effect on the progress of the Theosophical 
movement, the good effect of the phenomena on the few persons who 
appreciated them. When I went up to Simla in August, 1881, therefore, I had 
no expectation of further events of an unusual nature. Nor have I any stream 
of anecdotes to relate which will bear comparison with those derived from the 
experience of the previous year. But none the less was the progress of a 
certain undertaking in which I became concerned -the establishment of a 
Simla branch of the Theosophical Society -interspersed with little incidents of 
a phenomenal nature. When this Society was formed, many letters passed 
between Koot Hoomi and ourselves which were not in every case transmitted 
through Madame Blavatsky. In one case, for example, Mr. Hume, who 
became president for the first year of the new Society - the Simla Eclectic 
Theosophical Society, as it was decided it should be called -got a note from 
Koot Hoomi inside a letter received through the post from a person wholly 
unconnected with our occult pursuits, who was writing to him in connection 
with some municipal business. I myself, dressing for the evening, have found 
an expected letter in my coat-pocket, and on another occasion under my 
pillow in the morning. On one occasion, having just received a letter by the 
mail from England which contained matter in which I thought she would be 
interested, I went up to Madame Blavatsky's writing-room and read it to her. 
As I read it, a few lines of writing, comment upon what I was reading, were 
formed on a sheet of blank paper which lay before her. She actually saw the 
writing form itself, and called to me, pointing to the paper where it lay. There 
I recognise Koot Hoomi's hand-and his thought, for the comment was to the 
effect, " Didn't I tell you so? " and referred back to something he had said in a 
previous letter.  
By-the-by, it may be as well to inform the reader that during the whole of the 
visit to Simla, of which I am now speaking, for several months before it, and 
until several months later, Colonel Olcott was in Ceylon, where he was 
engaged in a very successful lecturing tour on behalf of the Theosophical 
Society , in reference to some of the phenomena which occurred at Simla in 
1880, when both he and Madame Blavatsky were present. Ill-natured and 
incredulous people -when it would be glaringly absurd about some particular 
phenomenon to say that Madame Blavatsky had done it by trickery of her 
own -used to be fond of suggesting that the wire-puller must be Colonel 
Olcott. In some of the newspaper criticisms of the first edition of this book, 
even, it has been suggested that Colonel Olcott must be the writer of the 
letters that I innocently ascribe to Koot Hoomi, Madame Blavatsky merely 
manipulating their presentation. But inasmuch as all through the autumn of 
1881, while Colonel Olcott was at Ceylon and I at Simla, the letters continued 
to come, alternating day by day sometimes with the letters we wrote, my 
critics, in future, must acknowledge that this hypothesis is played out.  
For me myself -as I think it will also be for my appreciative readers -the most 
interesting fact connected with my Simla experience of 1881 was this : 
During the period in question I got into relations with one other of the 
Brothers, besides Koot Hoomi. It came to pass that in the progress of his own 
development it was necessary for Koot Hoomi to retire for a period of three 
months into absolute seclusion, as regards not merely the body -which in the 
case of an Adept may be secluded in the remotest corner of the earth without 
that arrangement checking the activity of his " astral " intercourse with 
mankind - but as regards the whole potent Ego with whom we had dealings. 
Under these circumstances one of the Brothers with whom Koot Hoomi was 
especially associated agreed, rather reluctantly at first, to pay attention to 
the Simla Eclectic Society, and keep us going during Koot Hoomi's absence 
with a course of instruction in occult philosophy. The change which came over 
the character of our correspondence when our new master took us in hand 
was very remarkable. Every letter that emanated from Koot Hoomi had 
continued to bear the impress of his gently mellifluous style. He would write 
half a page at any, time rather than run the least risk of letting a brief or 
careless phrase hurt anybody's feelings. His hand writing, too, was always 
very legible and regular. Our new master treated us very differently: he 
declared himself almost unacquainted with our language, and wrote a very 
rugged hand which it was sometimes difficult to decipher. He did not beat 
about the bush with us at all. If we wrote out an essay on some occult ideas 
we had picked up, and sent it to him, asking if it was right, it would 
sometimes come back with a heavy red line scored through it, and " No " 
written on the margin. On one occasion one of us had written, " Can you clear 
my conceptions about so and so ? " The annotation found in the margin when 
the paper was returned was, " How can I clear what you haven't got I " and so 
on. But with all this we made progress under M-, and by degrees the 
correspondence, which began on his side with brief notes, scrawled in the 
roughest manner on bits of coarse Tibetan paper, expanded into considerable 
letters sometimes. And it must be understood that while his rough and 
abrupt ways formed an amusing contrast with the tender gentleness of Koot 
Hoomi, there was nothing in these to impede the growth of our attachment to 
him as we began to feel ourselves tolerated by him as pupils a little more 
willingly than at first. Some of my readers, I am sure, will realise what I 
mean by " attachment " in this case. I use a colourless word deliberately to 
avoid the parade of feelings which might not be generally understood; but I 
can assure them that in the course of prolonged relations- even though 
merely of the epistolary kind -with a personage who, though a man like the 
rest of us as regards his natural place in creation, is elevated so far above 
ordinary men as to possess some attributes commonly considered divine, 
feelings are engendered which are too deep to be lightly or easily described.  
It was by M--------- quite recently that a little manifestation of force was given 
for my gratification, the importance of which turned on the fact that Madame 
Blavatsky was entirely uninfluential in its production, and eight hundred 
miles away at the time. For the first three months of my acquaintance with 
him, M------ had rigidly adhered to the principle he laid down w hen he agreed 
to correspond with the Simla Eclectic Society during Koot Hoomi 's 
retirement. He would correspond with us, but would perform no phenomena 
whatever. This narrative is so much engaged with phenomena that I cannot 
too constantly remind the reader that these incidents were scattered over a 
long period of time, and that as a rule nothing is more profoundly distasteful 
to the great adepts than the production of wonders in the outside world. 
Ordinary critics of these, when they have been thus exceptionally accorded, 
will constantly argue, " But why did not the Brothers do so and so differently 
? then the incident would have been much more convincing." I repeat that the 
Brothers, in producing abnormal phenomena now and then, are not trying to 
prove their existence to an intelligent jury of Englishmen. They are simply 
letting their existence become perceptible to persons with a natural 
gravitation towards spirituality and mysticism. It is not too much to say that 
all the while they are scrupulously avoiding the delivery of direct proof of a 
nature calculated to satisfy the commonplace mind. For the present, at all 
events, they prefer that the crass, materialistic Philistines of the sensual, 
selfish world should continue to cherish the conviction that " the Brothers " 
are myths. They reveal themselves, therefore, by signs and hints which are 
only likely to be comprehended by people with some spiritual insight or 
affinity. True the appearance of this book is permitted by them, -no page of it 
would have been written if a word from Koot Hoomi had indicated 
disapproval on his part, - and the phenomenal occurrences herein recorded 
are really in many cases absolutely complete and irresistible proofs for me, 
and therefore for anyone who is capable of understanding that I am telling 
the exact truth. But the Brothers, I imagine, know quite well that, large as 
the revelation has been, it may safely be passed before the eyes of the public 
at large just because the herd, whose convictions they do not wish to reach, 
can be relied upon to reject it. The situation may remind the reader of the 
farceur who undertook to stand on Waterloo Bridge with a hundred real 
sovereigns on a tray, offering to sell them for a shilling apiece, and who 
wagered that he would so stand for an hour without getting rid of his stock. 
He relied on the stupidity of the passers-by, who would think themselves too 
clever to be taken in. So with this little book. It contains a straightforward 
statement of absolute truths, which, if people could only believe them, would 
revolutionise the world; and the statement is fortified by unimpeachable 
credentials. But the bulk of mankind will be blinded to this condition of 
things by their own vanity and inability to assimilate super-materialistic 
ideas, and none will be seriously affected but those who are qualified to 
benefit by comprehending.  
Readers of the latter class will readily appreciate the way the phenomena 
that I have had to record have thus followed in the track of my own growing 
convictions, confirming these as they have in turn been inferentially 
constructed, rather than provoking and enforcing them in the first instance. 
And this has been emphatically the case with the one or two phenomena that 
have latterly been accorded by M------. It was in friendship and kindness that 
these were given, long after all idea of confirming my belief in the Brothers 
was wholly superfluous and out of date. M------ came indeed to wish that I 
should have the satisfaction of seeing him (in the astral body of course), and 
would have arranged for this in Bombay, in January, when I went down 
there for a day to meet my wife, who was returning from England, had the 
atmospherical and other conditions just at that period permitted it. But, 
unfortunately for me, these were not favourable. As M----- wrote in one of 
several little notes I received from him during that day and the following 
morning, before my departure from the headquarters of the Theosophical 
Society, where I was staying, even they, the Brothers, could not " work 
miracles; " and though to the ordinary spectator there may be but little 
difference between a miracle and anyone of the phenomena that the Brothers 
do sometimes accomplish, these latter are really results achieved by the 
manipulation of natural laws and forces, and are subject to obstacles which 
are sometimes practically insuperable.  
But M------, as it happened, was enabled to show himself to one member of 
the Simla Eclectic Society, who happened to be at Bombay a day or two before 
my visit. The figure was clearly visible for a few moments, and the face 
distinctly recognised by my friend, who had previously seen a portrait of M-------. 
Then it passed across the open door of an inner room in which it had 
appeared, in a direction where there was no exit; and when my friend, who 
had started forward in its pursuit, entered the inner room, it was no longer to 
be seen. On two or three other occasions previously, M----- had made his 
astral figure visible to other persons about the headquarters of the Society, 
where the constant presence of Madame Blavatsky and one or two other 
persons of highly sympathetic magnetism, the purity of life of all habitually 
resident there, and the constant influences poured in by the Brothers 
themselves, render the production of phenomena immeasurably easier than 
elsewhere.  
And this brings me back to certain incidents which took place recently at my 
own house at Allahabad, when, as I have already stated, Madame Blavatsky 
herself was eight hundred miles off, at Bombay. Colonel Olcott, then on his 
way to Calcutta, was staying with us for a day or two in passing.  
He was accompanied by a young native mystic, ardently aspiring to be 
accepted by the Brothers as a chela, or pupil, and the magnetism thus 
brought to the house established conditions which for a short time rendered 
some manifestations possible. Returning home one evening shortly before 
dinner, I found two or three telegrams awaiting me, enclosed in the usual 
way, in envelopes securely fastened before being sent out from the telegraph 
office. The messages were all from ordinary people, on commonplace 
business; but inside one of the envelopes I found a little folded note from M-----. The mere fact that it had been thus transfused by occult methods inside the 
closed envelope was a phenomenon in itself, of course (like many of the same 
kind that I have described before) ; but I need not dwell on this point, as the 
feat that had been performed, and of which the note gave me information, 
was even more obviously wonderful. The note made me search in my writing
room for a fragment of a plaster bas-relief that M----- had just transported 
instantaneously from Bombay. Instinct took me at once to the place where I 
felt that it was most likely I should find the thing which had been brought- 
the drawer of my writing-table, exclusively devoted to occult correspondence ; 
and there, accordingly, I found a broken corner from a plaster slab, with M-----'s signature marked upon it. I telegraphed at once to Bombay, to ask 
whether anything special had just happened, and next day received back 
word that M----- had smashed a certain plaster portrait, and had carried off a 
piece. In due course of time I received a minute statement from Bombay, 
attested by the signatures of seven persons in all, which was, as regards all 
essential points, as follows: -  
" At about seven in the evening the following persons " (five are enumerated, 
including Madame Blavatsky ) " were seated at the dining-table, at tea, in 
Madame Blavatsky's veranda opposite the door in the red screen separating 
her first writing-room from the long veranda. The two halves of the writing
room were wide open, and the dining-table, being about two feet from the 
door, we could all see plainly everything in the room. About five or seven 
minutes after, Madame Blavatsky gave a start. We all began to watch. She 
then looked all round her, and said, , What is he going to do ? ' and repeated 
the same twice or thrice without looking at or referring to any of us. We all 
suddenly heard a knock -a loud noise, as of something falling and breaking 
behind the door of Madame Blavatsky's writing- room, when there was not a 
soul there at the time. A still louder noise was heard, and we all rushed in. 
The room was empty and silent; but just behind the red cotton door, where 
we had heard the noise, we found fallen on the ground a Paris plaster mould, 
representing a portrait, broken into several pieces. After carefully picking the 
pieces up to the smallest fragments, and examining it, we found the nail, on 
which the mould had hung for nearly eighteen months, strong as ever in the 
wall. The iron wire loop of the portrait was perfectly intact, and not even 
bent. We spread the pieces on the table, and tried to arrange them, thinking 
they could be glued, as Madame Blavatsky seemed very much annoyed, as 
the mould was the work of one of her friends in New York. We found that one 
piece, nearly square and of about two inches, in the right corner of the mould, 
was wanting. We went into the room and searched for it, but could not find it. 
Shortly afterwards, Madame Blavatsky suddenly arose and went into her 
room, shutting the door after her. In a minute she called Mr. ------in, and 
showed to him a small piece of paper. We all saw and read it afterwards. It 
was in the same handwriting in which some of us have received previous 
communications, and the same familiar initials. It told us that the missing 
piece was taken by the Brother whom Mr. Sinnett calls , the Illustrious,'[ "My 
illustrious friend," was the expression I originally used in application to the 
Brother I have here called M-, and it got shortened afterwards into the 
pseudonym given in the statement. It is difficult sometimes to know what to 
call the Brothers, even when one knows their real names. The less these are 
promiscuously handled the better, for various reasons, among which is the 
profound annoyance which it gives their real disciples if such names get into 
frequent and disrespectful use among scoffers. I regret now that Koot 
Hoomi's name, so ardently venerated by all who have been truly subject to 
his influence, should ever have been allowed to appear in full in the text of 
the book.] To Allahabad, and that she should collect and carefully preserve 
the remaining pieces." The statement goes after this into some further 
details, which are unimportant as regards the general reader, and is signed 
by the four native friends who were with Madame Blavatsky at the time the 
plaster portrait was broken. A postcript, signed by three other persons, adds 
that these three came in shortly after the actual breakage, and found the rest 
of the party trying to arrange the fragments on the table. 
It will be understood, of course, but I may s well explicitly state, that the 
evening to which the above narrative relates was the same on which I found 
Mr. -----'s note inside my telegram at Allahabad, and the missing piece of the 
cast in my drawer; and no appreciable time appears to have elapsed between 
the breakage of the cast at Bombay and the delivery of the piece at 
Allahabad, for though I did not note the exact minute at which I found the 
fragment - and, indeed, it may have been already in my drawer for some little 
time before I came home- the time was certainly between seven and eight, 
probably about half-past seven or a quarter to eight. And there is nearly half 
an hour's difference of longitude between Bombay and Allahabad, so that 
seven at Bombay would be nearly half-past at Allahabad. Evidently, 
therefore, the plaster fragment, weighing two or three ounces, was really 
brought from Bombay to Allahabad, to all intents and purposes, 
instantaneously. That it was veritably the actual piece missing from the cast 
broken at Bombay was proved a few days later, for all the remaining pieces at 
Bombay were carefully packed up and sent to me, and the fractured edges of 
my fragment fitted exactly into those of the defective corner, so that I was 
enabled to arrange the pieces all together again and complete the cast.  
The shrewd reader -of the class of persons who would never have been " 
taken in " by the man who sold sovereigns on Waterloo Bridge -will laugh at 
the whole story. A lump of plaster of Paris sent a distance of eight hundred 
miles across India in the wink of an eye by the willpower of somebody Heaven 
knows where at the time -probably in Tibet ! The shrewd person could not 
manage the feat himself, so he is convinced that nobody else could, and that 
the event never occurred. Rather believe that the seven witnesses at Bombay 
and the present writer are telling a pack of lies than that there can be anyone 
living in the world who knows secrets of Nature, and can employ forces 'of 
Nature that shrewd persons of the Times- reading, "Jolly Bank-holiday, 
three-penny 'bus young man " type know nothing about. Some friends of 
mine, criticising the first edition of this book, have found fault with me for 
not adopting a more respectful and conciliatory tone towards scientific 
scepticism when confronting the world with allegations of the kind these 
pages contain. But I fail to see any motive for hypocrisy in the matter. A 
great number of intelligent people in these days are shaking themselves free 
at once from the fetters of materialism forged by modern science and the 
entangled superstition of ecclesiastics, resolved that the Church herself, with 
all her mummeries, shall fail to make them irreligious; that science itself, 
with all its conceit, shall not blind them to the possibilities of Nature. These 
are the people who will understand my narrative and the sublimity of the 
revelations it embodies. But all people who have been either thoroughly 
enslaved by dogma, or thoroughly materialised by modern science, have 
finally lost some faculties, and will be unable to apprehend facts that do not 
fit in with their preconceived ideas. They will mistake their own intellectual 
deficiencies for inherent impossibility of occurrence on the part of the fact 
described; they will be very rude in thought and speech towards persons of 
superior intuition, who do find themselves able to believe and, in a certain 
sense, to understand; and it seems to me that the time has come for letting 
the commonplace scoffers realise plainly that in the estimation of their more 
enlightened contemporaries they do indeed seem a Beotian herd, in which the 
better educated and the lesser educated -the orthodox savant and the city 
clerk -differ merely in degree and not in kind.  
The morning after the occurrence of the incident just detailed, B---- R-----, the 
young native aspirant for chelaship, who had accompanied Colonel Olcott, 
and was staying at my house, gave me a note from Koot Hoomi , which he 
found under his pillow in the morning. One which I had written to Koot 
Hoomi , and had given to B----- R----- the previous day, had been taken, he 
told me, at night, before he slept. The note from Koot Hoomi was a short one, 
in the course of which he said, " To force phenomena in the presence of 
difficulties magnetic or other is forbidden as strictly as for a bank cashier to 
disburse money which is only entrusted to him. Even to do this much for you 
so far from the headquarters would be impossible but for the magnetisms 0---- and B----- R----,- have brought with them -and I could do no more." Not fully 
realising the force of the final words in this passage, and more struck by a 
previous passage, in which Koot Hoomi wrote -" It is easy for us to give 
phenomenal proofs when we have necessary conditions " -I wrote next day, 
suggesting one or two things which I thought might be done to take 
additional advantage of the conditions presented by the introduction into my 
house of available magnetism different from that of Madame Blavatsky, who 
had been so much, however absurdly, suspected of imposing on me. I gave 
this note to B---- R----- on the evening of the 13th of March -the plaster 
fragment incident had taken place on the 11th- and on the morning of the 
14th I received a few words from Koot Hoomi , simply saying that what I 
proposed was impossible, and that he would write more fully through 
Bombay. When in due time I so heard from him, I learned that the limited 
facilities of the moment had been exhausted, and that my suggestions could 
not be complied with; but the importance of the explanations I have just been 
giving turns on the fact that I did, after all, exchange letters with Koot Hoomi 
at an interval of a few hours, at a time when Madame Blavatsky was at the 
other side of India.  
The account I have just been giving of the instantaneous transmission of the 
plaster of Paris fragment from Bombay to Allahabad forms a fitting prelude 
to a remarkable series of incidents I have next to record. The story now to be 
told has already been made public in India, having been fully related in " 
Psychic Notes," [Newton & Co., Calcutta.] a periodical temporarily brought 
out at Calcutta, with the object especially of recording incidents connected 
with the spiritualistic mediumship of Mr. Eglinton, who stayed for some 
months at Calcutta during the past cold season. The incident was hardly 
addressed to the outside world; rather to spiritualists, who while infinitely 
closer to a comprehension of occultism than people still wrapped in the 
darkness of orthodox incredulity, about all super-material phenomena, are 
nevertheless to a large extent inclined to put a purely spiritualistic 
explanation on all such phenomena. In this way it had come to pass that 
many spiritualists in India were inclined to suppose that we who believed in 
the Brothers were in some way misled by extraordinary mediumship on the 
part of Madame Blavatsky. And at first the " spirit guides" who spoke 
through Mr. Eglinton confirmed this view. But a very remarkable change 
came over their utterances at last. Shortly before Mr. Eglinton's departure 
from Calcutta, they declared their full knowledge of the Brotherhood, naming 
the " Illustrious " by that designation, and declaring that they had been 
appointed to work in concert with the Brothers thenceforth. On this aspect of 
affairs, Mr. Eglinton left India in the steamship Vega, sailing from Calcutta, I 
believe, on the 16th of March. A few days later, on the morning of the 24th, at 
AIahabad, I received a letter from Koot Hoomi, in which he told me that he 
was going to visit Mr. Eglinton on board the Vega at sea, convince him 
thoroughly as to the existence of the Brothers, and if successful in doing this 
notify the fact immediately to certain friends of Mr. Eglinton's at Calcutta. 
The letter had been written a day or two before, and the night between the 
21st and 22nd was mentioned as the period when the astral visit would be 
paid. Now the full explanation of all the circumstances under which this 
startling programme was carried out will take some little time, but the 
narrative will be the more easily followed if I first describe the outline of 
what took place in a few words. ' The promised visit was actually paid, and 
not only that but a letter written by Mr. Eglinton at sea on the 24th 
describing it -and giving in his adhesion to a belief in the Brothers fully and 
completely- was transported instantaneously that same evening to Bombay, 
where it was dropped "out of nothing " like the first letter I received on my 
return to India before several witnesses; by them identified and tied up with 
cards written on by them at the time ; then taken away again and a few 
moments later dropped down, cards from Bombay and all, among Mr. 
Eglinton's friends at Calcutta who had been told beforehand to expect a 
communication from the Brothers at that time. All the incidents of this series 
are authenticated by witnesses and documents, and there is no rational 
escape, for any one who looks into the evidence, from the necessity of 
admitting that the various phenomena as I have just described them have 
actually been accomplished, " impossible " as ordinary science will declare 
them.  
For the details of the various incidents of the series, I may refer the reader to 
the account published in Psychic Notes of March 30, by Mrs. Gordon, wife of 
Colonel W. Gordon, of Calcutta, and authenticated with her signature. 
Colonel Olcott, Mrs. Gordon explains in the earlier part of her statement, 
which for brevity's sake I condense, had just arrived at Calcutta on a visit to 
Colonel Gordon and herself. A letter had come from Madame Blavatsky-  
"dated Bombay the 19th, telling us that something was going to be done, and 
expressing the earnest hope that she would not be required to assist, as she 
had had enough abuse about phenomena. Before this letter was brought by 
the post peon, Colonel Olcott had told me that he had had an intimation in 
the night from his Chohan (teacher) that K. H.[ We had got into the habit at 
this time of using these initials for the Mahatma's name. ] Had been to the 
Vega and seen Eglinton. This was at about eight o'clock on Thursday 
morning, the 23rd. A few hours later a telegram, dated at Bombay, 22nd 
day,21 hours 9 minutes, that is, say 9 minutes past 9 P.M. on Wednesday 
evening, came to me from Madame Blavatsky, to this effect: ' K. H. just gone 
to Vega.' This telegram came as a 'delayed' message, and was I to me from 
Calcutta, which accounts for its not reaching me until midday on Thursday. 
It corroborated, as will be seen, the message of the previous night to Colonel 
Olcott. We then felt hopeful of getting the letter by occult means from Mr. 
Eglinton. A telegram later on Thursday asked us to fix a " time for a sitting, 
so we named 9 o'clock Madras time, on Friday, 24th. At this hour we three- 
Colonel Olcott, Colonel Gordon, and myself -sat in the room which had been 
occupied by Mr. Eglinton.. We had a good light, and sat with our chairs 
placed to form a triangle, of which the apex was to the north. In a few 
minutes Colonel Olcott saw outside the open window the two' Brothers' 
whose names are best known to us, and told us so; he saw them pass to 
another window, the glass doors of which were closed. He saw one of them 
point his hand towards the air over my head, and I felt something at the 
same moment fall straight down from above on to my shoulder, and saw it 
fall at my feet in the direction towards the two gentlemen. I knew it would be 
the letter, but for the moment I was so anxious to see the' Brothers' that I did 
not pick up what had fallen. Colonel Gordon and Colonel Olcott both saw and 
heard the letter fall. Colonel Olcott had turned his head from the window for 
a moment to see what the I Brother' was pointing at, and so noticed the letter 
falling from a point about two feet from the ceiling. When he looked again the 
two 'Brothers' had vanished.  
" There is no veranda outside, and the window is several feet from the 
ground.  
" I now turned and picked up what had fallen on me, and found a letter in 
Mr. Eglinton's handwriting, dated on the Vega the 24th ; a message from 
Madame Blavatsky, dated at Bombay the 24th, written on the backs of three 
of her visiting cards; also a larger card, such as Mr. Eglinton had a packet of, 
and used at his séances. On this latter card was the, to us, well-known 
handwriting of K. H., and a few words in the handwriting of the other' 
Brother,' who was with him outside our window, and who is Colonel Olcott's 
chief. All these cards and the letter were threaded together with a piece of 
blue sewing silk. We opened the letter carefully, by slitting up one side, as we 
saw that some one had made on the flap in pencil three Latin crosses, and so 
we kept them intact for identification. The letter is as follows: -  
"'S. S. Vega, Friday, 24th March, 1882. " , My DEAR MRS. GORDON,  -At last your hour of triumph has come! After the many battles we have had 
at the breakfast-table regarding K. H.'s existence, and my stubborn 
scepticism as to the wonderful powers possessed by the " Brothers," I have 
been forced to a complete belief in their being living distinct persons, and just 
in proportion to my scepticism will be my firm unalterable opinion respecting 
them. I am not allowed to tell you all I know, but K. H. appeared to me in 
person two days ago, and what he told me dumfounded me. Perhaps Madame 
B. will have already communicated the fact of K. H.'s appearance to you. The 
"Illustrious " is uncertain whether this can be taken to Madame or not, but he 
will try, notwithstanding the many difficulties in the way. If he does not I 
shall post it when I arrive at port. I shall read this to Mrs. B---- and ask her 
to mark the envelope; but whatever happens, you are requested by K. H. to 
keep this letter a profound secret until you hear from him though Madame. A 
storm of opposition is certain to be raised, and she has had so much to bear 
that it is hard she should have more.' Then follow some remarks about his 
health and the trouble which is taking him home, and the letter ends.  
" In her note on the three visiting cards Madame Blavatsky says: -' Headquarters, March 24th.  
These cards and contents to certify to my doubters that the attached letter 
addressed to Mrs. Gordon by Mr. Eglinton was just brought to me from the 
Vega, with another letter from himself to me, which I keep. K. H. tells me he 
saw Mr. Eglinton and had a talk with him, long and convincing enough to 
make him a believer in the "Brothers," as actual living beings, for the rest of 
his natural life. Mr. Eglinton writes to me: " The letter which I enclose is 
going to be taken to Mrs. G. through your influence. You will receive it 
wherever you are, and will forward it to her in ordinary course. You will learn 
with satisfaction of my complete conversion to a belief in the "Brothers", and 
I have no doubt K. H. has already told you how he appeared to me two nights 
ago," etc., etc.. K. H. told me all. He does not, however, want me to forward 
the letter in "ordinary course", as it would defeat the object, but commands 
me to write this and send it off without delay, so that it would reach you all 
at Howrah tonight, the 24th. I do so. ...H. P. Blavatsky.'  
" The handwriting on these cards and signature are perfectly well known to 
us. That on the larger card (from Mr. Eglinton's packet) attached was easily 
recognised as coming from Koot Hoomi . Colonel Gordon and I know his 
writing as well as our own; it is so distinctly different from any other I have 
ever seen, that among thousands I could select it. He says, William Eglinton 
thought the manifestation could only be produced through H. P. B. as a 
"medium", and that the power would become exhausted at Bombay. We 
decided otherwise. Let this be a proof to all that the spirit of living man has 
as much potentiality in it (and often more) as a disembodied soul. He was 
anxious to test her, he often doubted; two nights ago he had the required proof 
and will doubt no more. But he is a good young man, bright, honest, and true 
as gold when once convinced. .. 
"This card was taken from his stock today. Let it be an additional proof of his 
wonderful mediumship. ...K. H.'  
" This is written in blue ink, and across it is written in red ink a few words 
from the other 'Brother' (Colonel Olcott's Chohan or chief). This interesting 
and wonderful phenomenon is not published with the idea that anyone who is 
unacquainted with the phenomena of spiritualism will accept it. But I write 
for the millions of spiritualists, and also that a record may be made of such 
an interesting experiment. Who knows but that it may pass on to a 
generation which will be enlightened enough to accept such wonders?"  
A postscript adds that since the above statement was written, a paper had 
been received from Bombay, signed by seven witnesses who saw the letter 
arrive there from the Vega.  
As I began by saying, this phenomenon was addressed more to spiritualists 
than to the outer world, because its great value for the experienced observer 
of phenomena turns on the utterly unmediumistic character of the events. 
Apart from the testimony of Mr. Eglinton's own letter to the effect that he, an 
experienced medium, was quite convinced that the interview he had with his 
occult visitant was not an interview with such " spirits " as he had been used 
to, we have the three-cornered character of the incident to detach it 
altogether from mediumship either on his part or on that of Madame 
Blavatsky.  
Certainly there have been cases in which under the influence or mediumship 
the agencies of the ordinary spiritual séance have transported letters half 
across the globe. A conclusively authenticated case in which an unfinished 
letter was thus brought from London to Calcutta will have attracted the 
attention of all persons who have their understanding awakened to the 
importance of these matters, and who read what is currently published about 
them, quite recently. But every spiritualist will recognise that the transport 
of a letter from a ship at sea to Bombay, and then from Bombay to Calcutta, 
with a definite object in view, and in accordance with a prearranged and pre
announced plan, is something quite outside the experience of mediumship.  
Will the effort made and the expenditure of force, whatever may have been 
required to accomplish the wonderful feat thus recorded, be repaid by 
proportionately satisfactory effects on the spiritualistic world ? There has 
been a great deal written lately in England about the antagonism between 
spiritualism and theosophy, and an impression has arisen in some way that 
the two cultes are incompatible. Now, the phenomena and the experiences of 
spiritualism are facts, and nothing can be incompatible with facts. But 
theosophy brings on the scene new interpretations of those facts, it is true, 
and sometimes these prove very unwelcome to spiritualists long habituated 
to their own interpretation. Hence, such spiritualists are now and then 
disposed to resist the new teaching altogether, and hold out against a belief 
that there can be anywhere in existence men entitled to advance it. This is 
consequently the important question to settle before we advance into the 
region of metaphysical subtleties. Let spiritualists once realise that the 
Brothers do exist, and what sort of people they are, and a great step will have 
been accomplished. Not all at once is it to be expected that the spiritual world 
will consent to revise its conclusions by occult doctrines. It is only by 
prolonged intercourse with the Brothers that a conviction grows up in the 
mind that as regards spiritual science they cannot be in error. At first, let 
spiritualists think them in error if they please; but at all events it will be 
unworthy of their elevated position above the Beotian herd if they deny the 
evidence of phenomenal facts; if they hold towards occultism the attitude 
which the crass sceptic of the mere Lankester type occupies towards 
spiritualism itself. So I cannot but hope that the coruscation of phenomena 
connected with the origin and adventures of the letter written on board the 
Vega may have flashed out of the darkness to some good purpose, showing 
the spiritualistic world quite plainly that the great Brother to whom this 
work is dedicated is, at all events, a living man, with faculties and powers of 
that entirely abnormal kind which spiritualists have hitherto conceived to 
inhere merely in beings belonging to a superior scheme of existence.  
For my part, I am glad to say that I not only know him to be a living man by 
reason of all the circumstances detailed in this volume, but I am now enabled 
to realise his features and appearance by means of two portraits, which have 
been conceded to me under very remarkable conditions. It was long a wish of 
mine to possess a portrait of my revered friend ; and some time ago he half 
promised that some time or other he would give me one. Now, in asking an 
adept for his portrait, the object desired is not a photograph, but a picture 
produced by a certain occult process which I have not yet had occasion to 
describe, but with which I had long been familiar by hearsay. I had heard, for 
example, from Colonel Olcott, of one of the circumstances under which his 
own original convictions about the realities of occult power were formed many 
years ago in New York, before he had actually entered on "the path." Madame 
Blavatsky on that occasion had told him to bring her a piece of paper which 
he would be certainly able to identify, in order that she might get a portrait 
precipitated upon it. We cannot, of course, by the light of ordinary knowledge 
form any conjecture about the details of the process employed; but just as an 
adept can, as I have had so many proofs, precipitate writing in closed 
envelopes, and on the pages of uncut pamphlets, so he can precipitate color in 
such a way as to form a picture. In the case of which Colonel Olcott told me 
he took home a piece of note-paper from a club in New York- a piece bearing a 
club stamp -and gave this to Madame Blavatsky. She put it between the 
sheets of blotting-paper on her writing-table, rubbed her hand over the 
outside of the pad, and then in a few moments the marked paper was given 
back to him with a complete picture upon it representing an Indian fakir in a 
state of samadhi. And the artistic execution of this drawing was conceived by 
artists to whom Colonel Olcott afterwards showed it to be so good that they 
compared it to the works of old masters whom they specially adored and 
affirmed that as an artistic curiosity it was unique and priceless. Now in 
aspiring to have a portrait of Koot Hoomi, of course I was wishing for a 
precipitated picture, and it would seem that just before a recent visit 
Madame Blavatsky paid to Allahabad, something must have been said to her 
about a possibility that this wish of mine might be gratified. For the day she 
came she asked me to give her a piece of thick white paper and mark it. This 
she would leave in her scrapbook, and there was reason to hope that a certain 
highly advanced chela, or pupil, of Koot Hoomi's, not a full adept himself as 
yet, but far on the road to that condition, would do what was necessary to 
produce the portrait.  
Nothing happened that day nor that night. The scrapbook remained lying on 
a table in the drawing-room, and was occasionally inspected. The following 
morning it was looked into by my wife, and my sheet of paper was found to be 
still blank. Still the scrapbook lay in full view on the drawing-room table. At 
half-past eleven we went to breakfast; the dining-room, as is often the case in 
Indian bungalows, only being separated from the drawing-room by an 
archway and curtains, which were drawn aside. While we were at breakfast 
Madame Blavatsky suddenly showed, by the signs with which all who know 
her are familiar, that one of her occult friends was near. It was the chela to 
whom I have above referred. She got up, thinking she might be required to go 
to her room; but the astral visitor, she said, waved her back, and she 
returned to the table. After breakfast we looked into the scrapbook, and on 
my marked sheet of paper, which had been seen blank by my wife an hour or 
two before, was a precipitated profile portrait. The face itself was left white, 
with only a few touches within the limits of the space it occupied ; but the 
rest of the paper all round it was covered with cloudy blue shading. Slight as 
the method was by which the result was produced, the outline of the face was 
perfectly well-defined, and its expression as vividly rendered as would have 
been possible with a finished picture.  
At first Madame Blavatsky was dissatisfied with the sketch. Knowing the 
original personally, she could appreciate its deficiencies; but though I should 
have welcomed a more finished portrait, I was sufficiently pleased with the 
one I had thus received to be reluctant that Madame Blavatsky should try 
any experiment with it herself with the view of improving it, for fear it would 
be spoilt. In the course of the conversation, M---- put himself in 
communication with Madame Blavatsky, and said that he would do a portrait 
himself on another piece of paper. There was no question in this case of a " 
test phenomenon" ; so after I had procured and given to Madame Blavatsky a 
(marked) piece of Bristol board, it was put away in the scrapbook, and taken 
to her room, where, free from the confusing cross magnetisms of the drawing
room, M---- would be better able to operate.  
Now it will be understood that neither the producer of the sketch I had 
received, nor M-----, in the natural state, is an artist. Talking over the whole 
subject of these occult pictures, I ascertained from Madame Blavatsky that 
the supremely remarkable results have been obtained by those of the adepts 
whose occult science as regards this particular process has been superseded 
to ordinary artistic training. But entirely without this, the adept can produce 
a result which, for all ordinary critics, looks like the work of an artist, by 
merely realising very clearly in his imagination the result he wishes to 
produce, and then precipitating the coloring matter in accordance with that 
conception.  
In the course of about an hour from the time at which she took away the piece 
of Bristol board- or the time may have been less -we were not watching it, 
Madame Blavatsky brought it me back with another portrait, again a profile, 
though more elaborately done. Both portraits were obviously of the same face, 
and nothing, let me say at once, can exceed the purity and lofty tenderness of 
its expression. Of course it bears no mark of age. Koot Hoomi, by the mere 
years of his life, is only a man of what we call middle age; but the adept's 
physically simple and refined existence leaves no trace of its passage ; and 
while our faces rapidly wear out after forty - strained, withered, and burned 
up by the passions to which all ordinary lives are more or less exposed- the 
adept age, for periods of time that I can hardly venture to define, remains 
apparently the perfection of early maturity. M-----, Madame Blavatsky's 
special guardian still, as I judge by a portrait of him that I have seen, though 
I do not yet possess one, in the absolute prime of manhood, has been her 
occult guardian from the time she was a child; and now she is an old lady. He 
never looked, she tells me, any different from what he looks now. 
I have now brought up to date the record of all external facts connected with 
the revelations I have been privileged to make. The door leading to occult 
knowledge is still ajar, and it is still permissible for explorers from the outer 
world to make good their footing across the threshold. This condition of 
things is due to exceptional circumstances at present, and may not continue 
long. Its continuance may largely depend upon the extent to which the world 
at large manifests an appreciation of the opportunity now offered. Some 
readers who are interested, but slow to perceive what practical action they 
can take, may ask what they can do to show appreciation of the opportunity. 
My reply will be modelled on the famous injunction of Sir Robert Peel: " 
Register, register, register! " Take the first steps towards making a response 
to the offer which emanates from the occult world - register, register, register; 
in other words, join the Theosophical Society -the one and only association 
which at present is linked by any recognised bond of union with the 
Brotherhood of Adepts in Tibet. There is a Theosophical Society in London, as 
there are other branches in Paris and America, as well as in India. If there is 
as yet but little for these branches to do, that fact does not vitiate their 
importance. After a voter has registered, there is not much for him to do for 
the moment. The mere growth of branches of the Theosophical Society, as 
associations of people who realise the sublimity of adeptship, and have been 
able to feel that the story told in this little book, and more fully, if more 
obscurely, in many greater volumes of occult learning, is absolutely true 
true, not as shadowy religious " truths" or orthodox speculations are held to 
be true by their votaries, but true as the " London Post-Office Directory" is 
true; as the Parliamentary reports people read in the morning are true; the 
mere enrolment of such people in a society under conditions which may 
enable them sometimes to meet and talk the situation over if they do no 
more, may actually effect a material result as regards the extent to which the 
authorities of the occult world will permit the further revelation of the 
sublime knowledge they possess. Remember, that knowledge is real 
knowledge of other worlds and other states of existence -not vague conjecture 
about hell and heaven and purgatory, but precise knowledge of other worlds 
going on at this moment, the condition and nature of which the adepts can 
cognize, as we can the condition and nature of a strange town we may visit. 
These worlds are linked with our own, and our lives with the lives they 
support; and will the further acquaintance with the few men on earth who 
are in a position to tell us more about them be superciliously rejected by the 
advance guard of the civilized world, the educated classes of England ? Surely 
no inconsiderable group will be sufficiently spiritualized to comprehend the 
value of the present opportunity, and sufficiently practical to follow the 
advice already quoted, and - register, register, register.  
APPENDIX 
A 
LATER acquaintance with the subject has done much to show me that the 
reserve hitherto maintained by the masters of occult science was inevitable. 
It is useless to offer any man information which his faculties are not 
sufficiently expanded to receive. Only a few hundred years after the physical 
science that has been absorbed by the last two or three generations with 
avidity would have been unwelcome and despised. Till quite recently the 
serious contemplation of psychic phenomena would have been resented as a 
relapse into superstition. No man can investigate causes till he is willing to 
observe facts, and it was only the other day that a disposition to observe facts 
lying outside the domain of physical causation would have alienated any 
prematurely developed enthusiast from the sympathies of all his 
contemporaries. The light of mere worldly wisdom may thus vindicate the 
reticence of the few and secluded custodians of the higher knowledge, but 
with far greater precision is their policy vindicated when with their own help 
we come at last to comprehend the scientific law of human intellectual 
development. The progress of the world is not rolling on under the direction 
of blind chance. Propelled though it is by the collective impulses of individual 
energy, it advances in a defined path, and the knowledge, the discoveries, the 
spiritual teaching, which breaks upon the world at each stage of its 
advancement, is precisely proportioned to the receptivity of mankind at that 
period of its evolution. The revelation of occult truth going on in the world 
just now in many ways and under various aspects- though as I most 
emphatically believe, under none more unequivocally or satisfactorily than in 
the case of the direct teaching of occult science I am instrumental in bringing 
to public notice - is the legitimate inheritance of this generation, and the good 
it may do in the world now could not have been done only a few decades ago. 
It is useless to try to take a photographic picture upon a non-sensitized plate; 
it is useless to present the subtle conceptions of spiritual science to minds on 
which no psychic collodion has previously been deposited. The Esoteric study 
in which some of us connected with the Theosophical Society have been 
privileged, during the last two or three years, to engage, has so effectually 
dispelled the discontent we first felt at the jealousy that had withheld this 
teaching from the world so long, that we recognise the message we are now 
commissioned to convey as addressed so far only to the most highly advanced 
and intuitive minds of our time. We are but beginning to put forward a 
doctrine which will only be appreciated in its full significance later on.  -June 7,1884.  
B.  
It is interesting to observe that, in accordance with predictions made to me 
when I began to write on these subjects, the dawn of psychic truth has begun 
to brighten our sky from several directions at once. The psychological 
telegraphy here referred to was quite unheard of In the world at large in 
1880. But for the last year or two the Psychic Research Society in London has 
been specially engaged on a long series of experiments in what it calls " 
thought transference," the phenomena of which contain the germs of the 
adepts' psychic telegraph. If anyone still doubts that thought impressions 
really can be conveyed from one mind to another, without the aid of speech or 
any sign or communication whatever having to do with the physical senses, 
he is unacquainted with the result of scientific enquiry in that direction. The 
transactions of the society referred to put the broad fact just noted beyond the 
reach of incredulity that can any longer be regarded as intelligent.  
C 
It is too late in the day now, when several editions of this book have already 
passed through the press, to affect any reserve about this name. But in truth 
I greatly regret now that I ever permitted it to become public property. All 
over India the disciples of the Brothers regard their Masters' names with the 
tenderest possible respect. The free and easy criticism to which this book has 
naturally been subject since its first appearance has often been associated 
with more or less disrespectful references to my revered correspondent, and 
this has given rise to great pain on the part of the regular chelas in India, the 
pupils of occult science; indeed, it is no longer necessary to go to India in 
search of persons whose sensibilities are liable to be disturbed seriously in 
the same way. In London a large and earnestly studious branch of the 
Theosophical Society has 
been formed, and long contact with the grand conceptions of Esoteric 
philosophy has developed on the part of its members a sentiment of reverence 
for the Mahatmas only second in intensity to that of the regular oriental 
initiates. It would spare all such persons a great deal of indignant distress, if 
the name I was unfortunately led to print in this work at full length had 
never been disclosed. To most Western readers the matter may seem very 
unimportant, but trouble and annoyance which I greatly deplore have ensued 
from the mistake thus committed. As a matter of fact, I may here observe 
that the original manuscript of my book , was written from end to end 
without the use of the name, instead of ,which I had placed a mere initial, " 
H", but a letter I received from India shortly before the publication of the 
book authorised the use of the name, and I felt at that time that it was 
absurd to be plus royaliste que le roi. So the step came to be taken which 
cannot now be recalled. The name of the Mahatma here made use of, I may 
explain, in conclusion of this digression.  
D 
The necessity of reprinting this work for a fourth edition gives me an 
opportunity of noticing some discussion that has taken place in the 
spiritualistic press on the subject of a letter addressed to Light, of September 
1st, 1883, by Mr. Henry Kiddle, an American spiritualist. The letter was as 
follows:  
To THE EDITOR OF "LIGHT."  
Sir,  -In a communication that appeared in your issue of July 21st, '" G. W., M.D.," 
reviewing '" Esoteric Buddhism," says: Regarding this Koot Hoomi, it is a 
very remarkable and unsatisfactory fact that Mr. Sinnett, although in 
correspondence with him for years, has yet never been permitted to see him." 
I agree with your corespondent entirely ; and this is not the only fact that is 
unsatisfactory to me. On reading Mr. Sinnett's "Occult World," more than a 
year ago, I was very greatly surprised to find in one of the letters presented 
by Mr. Sinnett as having been transmitted to him by Koot Hoomi, in the 
mysterious manner described, a passage taken almost verbatim from an 
address on Spiritualislm by me at Lake Pleasant in August, 1880, and 
published the same month by the Banner of Light. As Mr. Sinnett's book did 
not appear till a considerable time afterwards (about a year, I think), it is 
certain that I did not quote, consciously or unconsciously, from its pages. 
How, then, did it get into Koot Hoomi's mysterious letter? 
I sent to Mr. Sinnett a letter through his publishers, enclosing the printed 
pages of my address, with the part used by Koot Hoomi marked upon it, and 
asked for an explanation, for I wondered that so great a sage as Koot Hoomi 
should need to borrow anything from so humble a student of spiritual things 
as myself. As yet I have received no reply; and the query has been suggested 
to my mind -Is Koot Hoomi a myth? or, if not, is he so great an adept as to 
have impressed my mind with his thoughts and word while I was preparing 
my address?If the latter were the case he could not consistently exclaim: '" 
Pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerunt."  
Perhaps Mr. Sinnett may think it scarcely worth while to solve this little 
problem; but the fact that the existence of the brotherhood has not yet been 
proved may induce some to raise the question suggested by "G. W ., M. D". Is 
there any such secret order ? On this question, which is not intended to imply 
anything offensive to Mr. Sinnett, that other still more important question 
may depend. Is Mr. Sinnett's recently published book an exponent of Esoteric 
Buddhism ? It Is, doubtless, a work of great ability, and its statements are 
worthy of deep thought; but the main question is, are they true, or how can 
they be verified ?' As this cannot he accomplished except by the exercise of 
abnormal or transcendental faculties, they must be accepted, if at all, upon 
the ipse dixtt of the accomplished adept, who has been so kind as to sacrifice 
his esoteric character or vow, and make Mr. Sinnett his channel of 
communication with the outer world, thus rendering his sacred knowledge 
exoteric. Hence, if this publication, with its wonderful doctrine of Shells," 
overturning the consolatory conclusions of Spiritualists, is to be accepted, the 
authority must he established, and the existence of the adept or adepts 
indeed, the facts of adeptship - must be proved. The first step in affording 
this proof has hardly yet, I think, been taken. I trust this book will be very 
carefully analysed, and the nature of its inculcations exposed, whether they 
are Esoteric Buddhism or not,  
The following are the passages referred to, printed side by side [ in the book, 
but one after the other in this document ]- for the sake of ready reference. .  
Extract from Mr. Kiddle's discourse, entitled "The Present Outlook of 
Spiritualism", delivered at Lake Pleasant Camp Meeting on Sunday, August 
15, 1880. 
"My friends, ideas rule the world; and as men's minds receive new ideas, 
laying aside the old and effete, the world advances. Society rests upon them; 
mighty revolutions spring from them ; institutions crumble before their 
onward march. It is just as impossible to resist their influx, when the time 
comes, as to stay the progress of the tide. 
And the agency called Spiritualism is bringing a new set of ideas into the 
world - ideas on the most momentous subjects,touching man's true position in 
the universe; his origin and destiny; the relation of the mortal to the 
immortal; of the temporary to the Eternal; of the finite to the Infinite; of 
man's deathless soul to the material universes in which it now dwells - ideas 
larger, more general, more comprehensive, recognising more fully the 
universal reign of law as the expression of the Divine will, unchanging and 
unchangeable in regard to which there is only an Eternal Now, while to 
mortals time is past or future, as related to their finite existence on this 
material plane; etc., etc., etc., 
New York, August 11th, 1883 
Extract from Koot Hoomi's letter to Mr. Sinnett, in the "Occult World", 3rd 
Edition, page 102. The first edition was published in June 1881.  
Ideas rule the world; and as men's minds receive new ideas, laying aside the 
old and effete, the world will advance,mighty revolutions will spring from 
them, creeds and even powers will crumble before their onward march, 
crushed by their irresistible force. It will be just as impossible to resist their 
influence when the time comes as to stay the progress of the tide. But all this 
will come gradually on, before it comes we have a duty set before us; that of 
sweeping away as much as possible the dross left to us by our pious 
forefathers. New ideas have to be planted on clean places, for these ideas 
touch upon the most momentous subjects. It is not physical phenomena,but 
these universal ideas that we study, as to comprehend the former, we have 
first to understand the latter. They touch man's true position in the universe 
in relation to his previous and future births, his origin and ultimate destiny; 
the relation of the mortal to the immortal, of the temporary to the Eternal, of 
the finite to the Infinite; ideas larger, grander, more comprehensive, 
recognising the eternal reign of immutable law, unchanging and 
unchangeable, in regards to which there is only an ETERNAL NOW; while to 
uninitiated mortals time is past or future as related to their finite existence 
on this material speck of dirt, etc., etc., etc. 
HENRY KIDDLE. 
The appearance of this letter puzzled, without very much disturbing, the 
equanimity of Theosophical students. If it had been published immediately 
after the first publication of the " Occult World," its effect might have been 
more serious, but in the interim the Brothers had by degrees communicated 
to the public through my agency such a considerable block of philosophical 
teaching, then already embodied in my second book, " Esoteric Buddhism," 
and scattered through two or three volumes of the Theosophist, that 
appreciative readers had passed beyond the stage of development in which it 
might have been possible for them to suppose that the principal author of this 
teaching could at any time have been under any intellectual temptation to 
borrow thoughts from a spiritualistic lecture. Various hypotheses were 
framed to account for the mysterious identity between the two passages cited, 
and people to whom the Theosophic teachings were unacceptable, as 
overthrowing conceptions to which they were attached, were greatly 
enchanted to find my revered instructor convicted, as they thought, of a 
commonplace plagiarism. A couple of months necessarily elapsed before an 
answer could be obtained from India on the subject, and meanwhile the " 
Kiddle incident," as it came to be called, was joyfully treated by various 
correspondents writing in the columns of Light, as having dealt a fatal blow 
at the authority of the Indian Mahatmas as "' exponents of esoteric truth.  
In due course I received a long and instructive explanation of the mystery 
from Mahatma Koot Hoomi himself; but this letter reached me under the seal 
of the most absolute confidence. Rigidly adhering to the policy which had all 
along restrained within narrow limits the communication of their teaching to 
the world at large, the Brothers remained as anxious as ever to leave 
everybody full intellectual liberty to disbelieve in them, and reject their 
revelation if his spiritual intuitions were not of a kind to be readily kindled. 
In the same way that from the first they had refused me the overwhelming 
and irresistible proofs of their power, which I had sought for in the beginning 
as weapons with which I might successfully combat incredulity, they now 
shrank from interfering with the conclusions of any readers who might be 
found capable, after the rich assurances of the later teaching, of distrusting 
the Mahatmas on the strength of a suspicion which was ill founded in reality, 
plausible though it might seem. Debarred myself, however,from making any 
public use of the Mahatma's letter, some of the residents and visitors at the 
Headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, Madras, came into 
possession of the true facts of the case, and some communications appeared 
in the society's magazine which afforded everyone honestly desirous of 
comprehending the truth of the matter, all necessary information. In the 
December number of the Theosophist, Mr. Subba Row put forward a very 
cautiously worded article, hinting merely at the actual explanation of the 
identity of the passages cited by Mr. KiddIe, and concerned chiefly with an 
elaborate analysis of the " plagiarised" sentences, the object of which was to 
show that in truth we might have divined for ourselves, if we had been sharp 
enough in the beginning, that some mistake had been made, and that the 
Mahatma could not have intended to write the sentences just as they stood. 
The hint conveyed by Mr. Subba was as follows: -  
" Therefore from a careful perusal of the passage and its contents, any 
unbiased reader will come to the conclusion that somebody must have greatly 
blundered over the said passage, and will not be surprised to hear that it was 
unconsciously altered through the carelessness and ignorance of the chela by 
whose instrumentality it was 'precipitated.' Such alterations, omissions, and 
mistakes sometimes occur in the process of precipitation; and I now assert I 
know it for certain, from an inspection of the original precipitation proof, that 
such was the case with regard to the passage under discussion."  
The same Theosophist in which this article appeared contained a letter from 
General Morgan in reply to various spiritualistic attacks on the Theosophical 
position, and in the course of his remarks he referred to the " Kiddle incident 
" as follows :-  
" Happily we have been permitted, many of us, to look behind the veil of the 
parallel passage mystery, and the whole affair is very satisfactorily explained 
to us; but all that we are permitted to say is that many a passage was 
entirely omitted from the letter received by Mr. Sinnett, its precipitation from 
the original dictation to the chela. Would our Great Master but permit us his 
humble followers to photograph and publish in the Theosophist the scraps 
shown to us, scraps in which whole sentences parenthetical and quotation 
marks are defaced and obliterated and consequently omitted in the chela' 
clumsy transcription - the public would be treated to a rare sight -something 
entirely unknown to modern science- namely, an akasic impression as good as 
a photograph of mentally expressed thoughts dictated from a distance."  
A month or two after the appearance of these fragmentary hints, I received a 
note from the Mahatma relieving me of all restrictions previously imposed on 
the full letter of explanation he had previously sent me. The subject, by that 
time, however, seemed to have lost its interest for all persons in England 
whose opinions I valued. Within the London Theosophical Society, now 
already a large and growing body, the Kiddle incident was looked on as little 
more than a joke, and the notion that the Mahatma who had inspired the 
teachings of Esoteric Buddhism, could have " plagiarised" from a 
spiritualistic lecture, as so absurd on the face of things that no appearances 
seeming to endorse that conception could have any importance. I did not feel 
disposed, therefore, to treat the suspicions some critics had entertained, with 
the respect that would have been involved in any appeal from me to the 
public to listen to what would have been represented as a defence -and a 
strangely postponed defence - of the Mahatma.  
Now, however, that this new edition of the Occult World II is required, there 
is an obvious propriety in the course I now take. The new letter from the 
Mahatma constitutes in itself a correction of the letter from which I quote on 
pages 101-102, and apart from the interest of the explanation it furnishes in 
regard to the precipitation process, the thoughts it conveys are in themselves 
valuable and suggestive.  
"The letter in question," writes the Mahatma, referring to the communication 
I originally received, "was framed by me while on a journey and on 
horseback. It was dictated mentally in the direction of and precipitated by a 
young chela not yet expert at this branch of psychic chemistry, and who had 
to transcribe it from the hardly visible imprint. Half of it, therefore, was 
omitted, and the other half more or less distorted by the °'artist. ' When 
asked by him at the time whether I would look over and correct it, I answered -imprudently, I I confess - "Anyhow will do, my boy; it is of no great 
importance if you skip a few words.' I was physically very tired by a ride of 
forty-eight hours consecutively, and (physically again) half asleep. Besides 
this, I had very important business to attend to psychically, and therefore 
little remained of me to devote to that letter. When I awoke I found it had 
already been sent on, and as I was not then anticipating its publication, I 
never gave it from that time a thought. Now I had never evoked spiritual Mr. 
Riddle's physiognomy, never had heard of his existence, was not aware of his 
name. Having, owing to our correspondence, and your Simla surroundings 
and friends, felt interested in the intellectual progress of the Phenomenalists, 
I had directed my attention, some two months previous, to the great annual 
camping movement of the American Spiritualists in various directions, 
among others to Lake or Mount Pleasant. Some of the curious ideas and 
sentences representing the general hopes and aspirations of the American 
Spiritualists remained impressed on my memory, and I remembered only 
these ideas and detached sentences quite apart from the personalities of 
those who harboured or pronounced them. Hence my entire ignorance of the 
lecturer whom I have innocently defrauded, as it would appear, and who 
raises the hue and cry. Yet had I dictated my letter in the form it now 
appears in print, it would certainly look suspicious, and however far from 
what is generally called plagiarism, yet in the absence of any inverted 
commas it would lay a foundation for censure. But I did nothing of the kind, 
as the original impression now before me clearly shows. And before I proceed 
any further I must give you some explanation of this mode of precipitation.  
The recent experiments of the Psychic Research Society will help you greatly 
to comprehend the rationale of this mental telegraphy. You have observed in 
the journal of that body, how thought transference is cumulatively effected. 
The image of the geometrical or other figure which the active brain has had 
impressed upon it is gradually imprinted upon the recipient brain of the 
passive subject, as the series of reproductions illustrated in the cuts show. 
Two factors are needed to produce a perfect and instantaneous mental 
telegraphy- close concentration in the operator and complete receptive 
passivity in the reader subject. Given a disturbance of either condition, and 
the result is proportionately imperfect. The reader does not see the image as 
in the telegrapher's brain, but as arising in his own. When the latter's 
thought wanders, the psychic current becomes broken, the communication 
disjointed and incoherent. In a case such as mine the chela had, as it were, to 
pick up what he could from the current I was sending him, and, as above 
remarked, patch the broken bits together as best he might. Do not you see the 
same thing in ordinary mesmerism -the maya impressed upon the subject's 
imagination by the operator becoming now stronger, now feebler, as the latter 
keeps the intended illusive image more or less steadily before his own fancy. 
And how often the clairvoyants reproach the magnetiser for taking their 
thoughts off the subject under consideration. And the mesmeric healer will 
always bear you witness that if he permits himself to think of anything but 
the vital current he is pouring into his patient, he is at once compelled to 
either establish the current afresh or stop the treatment. So I, in this 
instance, having at the moment more vividly in my mind the psychic 
diagnosis of current spiritualistic thought, of which the Lake Pleasant speech 
was one marked symptom, unwittingly transferred that reminiscence more 
vividly than my own remarks upon it and deductions therefrom. So to say, 
the' despoiled victim's' -Mr. Kiddle's -utterances came out as a high light, and 
were more sharply photographed (first, in the chela's brain, and thence on the 
paper before him, a double process, and one far more difficult than thought 
reading simply), while the rest, my remarks thereupon and arguments -as I 
now find, are hardly visible and quite blurred on the original scraps before 
me. Put into a mesmeric subject's hand a sheet of bank paper, tell him it 
contains a certain chapter of some book that you have read, concentrate your 
thoughts upon the words, and see how -provided that he has himself not read 
the chapter, but only takes it from your memory, his reading will reflect your 
own more or less vivid successive recollections of your author's language. The 
same as to the precipitation by the chela of the transferred thought upon (or 
rather into) paper. If the mental picture received be feeble, his visible 
reproduction of it must correspond. And the more so in proportion to the 
closeness of attention he gives. He might- were he but merely a person of the 
true mediumistic temperament -be employed by his " Master " as a sort of 
psychic printing machine (producing lithographed or psychographed 
impressions of what the operator had in mind; his nerve system the machine, 
his nerve aura the printing fluid, the colors drawn from that exhaustless 
store-house of pigments (as of everything else) the akasa. But the medium 
and the chela are diametrically dissimilar, and the latter acts consciously, 
except under exceptional circumstances, during development not necessary to 
dwell upon here.  
" Well, as soon as I heard of the change, the commotion among my defenders 
having reached me across the eternal snows, I ordered an investigation into 
the original scraps of the impression. At the first glance I saw that it was I 
the only and most guilty party, the poor boy having done hut that which he 
was told. Having now restored the characters and the lines omitted and 
blurred beyond hope of recognition by anyone but their original evolver, to 
their primitive color and places, I now find my letter reading quite 
differently, as you will observe. Turning to the' Occult World', the copy sent 
by you, to the page cited, I was struck, upon carefully reading it, by the great 
discrepancy between the sentences, a gap, so to say, of ideas between part 1 
and part 2, the plagiarised portion so called. There seems no connection at all 
between the two; for what has indeed the determination of our chiefs (to 
prove to a sceptical world that physical phenomena are as reducible to law as 
anything else) to do with Plato's ideas which' rule the world,' or' Practical 
Brotherhood of Humanity .' I fear that it is your personal friendship alone for 
the writer that has blinded you to the discrepancy and disconnection of ideas 
in this abortive precipitation even until now. Otherwise you could not have 
failed to perceive that something was wrong on that page, that there was a 
glaring defect in the connection. Moreover, I have to plead guilty to another 
sin: I have never so much as looked at my letters in print, until the day of the 
forced investigation. I had read only your own original matter, feeling it a 
loss of time to go over my hurried bits and scraps of thought. But now I have 
to ask you to read the passages as they were originally dictated by me, and 
make the comparison with the' Occult World ' before you. ..I enclose the copy 
verbatim from the restored fragments, underlining in red the omitted 
sentences for easier comparison.  
" ...Phenomenal elements previously unthought of. .. will disclose at last the 
secrets of their mysterious workings. Plato was right to readmit every element 
of speculation which Socrates had discarded. The problems of universal being 
are not unattainable, or worthless if attained. But the latter can be solved only 
by mastering those elements that are now looming on the horizons of the 
profane. Even the Spiritualists, with their mistaken, grotesquely perverted 
views and notions, are hazily realising the new situation. They prophecy -and 
their prophecies are not always without a point of truth in them -or intuitional 
prevision, so to say. Hear some of them reasserting the old, old axiom that' 
ideas rule the world,' and as men's minds receive new ideas, laying aside the 
old and effete, the world will advance, mighty revolutions will spring from 
them; institutions, aye, and even creeds and powers, they may add, will 
crumble before their onward march, crushed by their own inherent force, not 
the irresistible force of the' new ideas' offered by the Spiritualists. Yes, they 
are both right and wrong. It will be' just as impossible to resist their influence 
when the time comes as to stay the progress of the tide- to be sure. But what 
the Spiritualists fail to perceive, I see, and their spirits to explain (the latter 
knowing no more than what they can find in the brain of the former) is that 
all this will come gradually on, and that before it comes they, as well us 
ourselves, have all a duty to perform, a task set before us -that of sweeping 
away as much as possible the dross left to us by our pious forefathers. New 
ideas have to be planted on clean places, for these ideas touch upon the most 
momentous subjects. It is not physical phenomena, or the agency called 
Spiritualism, but these universal ideas that we have precisely to study; the 
noumenon, not the phenomenon: for to comprehend the latter we have first to 
understand the former. They do touch man's true position in the universe, to 
be sure, but only in relation to his future not previous births. It is not physical 
phenomena, however wonderful, that can ever explain to man his origin, let 
alone his ultimate destiny, or as one of them expresses it, the relation of the 
mortal to the immortal, of the temporary to the eternal, of the finite to the 
infinite, etc. They talk very glibly of what they regard as new ideas, ' larger, 
more general, grander, more comprehensive,' and at the same time they 
recognise instead of the eternal reign of immutable law, the universal reign of 
law and the expression of a Divine will. Forgetful of their "earlier beliefs, and 
that' it repented the Lord that he had made man,' these would-be philosophers 
and reformers would impress upon their hearers that the expression of the 
said Divine will ' is unchanging and unchangeable, in regard to which there 
is only an Eternal Now, while to mortals [uninitiated ] time is past or future 
as related to their finite existence on this material plane,'- of which they 
know as little as of their spiritual spheres - a speck of dirt they have made the 
latter, like our own earth, a future life that the true philosopher would rather 
avoid than court. But I dream with my eyes open. ...At all events, this is not 
any privileged teaching of their own. Most of these ideas are taken piecemeal 
from Plato and the Alexandrian philosophers. It is what we all study, and 
what many have solved, etc. , etc.  
" This is the true copy of the original document as now restored- the 'Rosetta 
stone' of the Kiddle incident. And now, if you have understood my 
explanations about the process, as given in a few words further back, you 
need not ask me how it came to pass that, though somewhat disconnected, 
the sentences transcribed by the chela are mostly those that are now 
considered as plagiarised, while the missing links are precisely those phrases 
that would have shown the passages were simply reminiscences, if not 
quotations -the keynote around which came grouping my own reflections on 
that morning. For the first time in my life I had paid a serious attention to 
the utterances of the poetical 'media' of the so-called , inspirational' oratory of 
the English-American lecturers, its quality and limitations. I was struck with 
all this brilliant but empty verbiage, and recognised for the first time fully its 
pernicious intellectual tendency. It was their gross and unsavoury 
materialism, hiding clumsily under its shadowy spiritual veil, that attracted 
my thoughts at the time. While dictating the sentences quoted -a small 
portion of the many I have been pondering over for some days -it was those 
ideas that were thrown out en relief the most, leaving out my own 
parenthetical remarks to disappear in the precipitation."  
I need only add a few words of apology to Mr. Kiddle for my accidental 
neglect of his original communication on this subject addressed to me in 
India. When his letter above quoted appeared in Light, I had no recollection 
,whatever of having received any letter from him while in India; but within 
the last few months going over, in London, and sorting papers brought back 
en masse from India, I have turned up the forgotten note. While in India, and 
the editor of a daily newspaper, my correspondence was such that letters 
requiring no immediate action on my part would inevitably sometimes be put 
aside after a hasty glance, and would unfortunately sometimes escape 
attention afterwards. And after the appearance of this book, I received letters 
of inquiry of various kinds from all parts of the world, which I was too often 
prevented by other calls on my time from answering as I should have wished. 
With the tone and spirit in which Mr. Kiddle made his very natural inquiry I 
have no fault to find whatever, and if his subsequent letter to Light betrayed 
some disposition on his part to construct unfavourable hypotheses on the 
basis of the parallel passages, even this second letter would hardly in itself 
have justified some of the indignant protests ultimately published on the 
other side. The spiritualists pur sang, eager to seize on an incident which 
seemed to cast discredit on the Theosophical teachings by which their views 
had been so seriously compromised, were responsible for handling the 'Kiddle 
incident' , in such a way as to provoke the vehement rejoinders of some 
Theosophical correspondents writing in the columns of Light and elsewhere. 
In consideration, however, of the explanations to which it has eventually 
given rise, and of the further insight thus afforded us into some interesting 
details connected with the methods under which an adept's correspondence 
may sometimes be conducted, the whole incident need not altogether be 
regretted.  
The relations with the " Occult World " that I have been fortunate enough to 
establish have so greatly expanded during the few years that have elapsed 
since this volume was written that I must refer my readers to my second 
book, " Esoteric Buddhism," for an account of their later development. It may 
be worth while, however, as directly connected with the main purpose of this 
earlier narrative, to insert here some papers I wrote quite recently for 
submission to Theosophical audiences in London on the main question 
discussed in this volume, the existence and sources of knowledge at the 
command of the adepts. The evidence on this subject has long since 
overshadowed in its amplitude and completeness the preliminary testimony 
afforded by my own experiences in India. I summed up some of this later 
evidence on one of the occasions just referred to, as follows: -  
All persons who become interested in any of the teachings which have found 
their way out into the world through the intermediation of the Theosophical 
Society very soon turn to the sanctions on which those teachings rest. 
Now the orthodox occult reply hitherto given to inquirers as to the 
authenticity of any small statements of occult science that have hitherto been 
put forth, has simply been this: -" Ascertain for yourself." That is to say, lead 
the pure spiritual life, cultivate the inner faculties, and by degrees these will 
be awakened and developed to the extent of enabling you to probe Nature for 
yourself. But that advice is not of a kind which great numbers of people have 
ever been ready to take, and hence knowledge concerning the truths of occult 
science has remained in the hands of a few. 
A new departure has now been taken. Certain proficients in occult science 
have broken through the old restrictions of their order, and have suddenly let 
out a flood of statements into the world, together with some information 
concerning the attributes and faculties they have themselves acquired, and 
by means of which they have learned what they now tell us. 
It, is very widely recognised that the teaching is interesting and coherent and 
even supported by analogies, but every new inquirer in turn must ask what 
assurance we can have that the persons from whom this teaching emanates 
are in a position to ascertain so much. Most people, I think, would be ready to 
admit that persons invested, as the Brothers of of Theosophy are said to be 
invested with abnormal and extraordinary powers over Nature- even in the 
departments of Nature with which we are familiar- may very probably have 
faculties which enable them to obtain a deep insight into many of the 
generally hidden truths of Nature. But then come the primary question, " 
What assurance can you give us that there really are behind the few people 
who stand forward as the visible representatives of the Theosophical Society, 
any such persons as the Adept Brothers at all ? " This is an old question 
which is always recurring, and which must go on recurring as long as new 
comers continue to approach the threshold of the Theosophical Society. For 
many of us it has long been settled; for some new inquirers the existence of 
psychological Adepts seems so probable that the assurances of the leading 
representatives of the Society in India are readily accepted but for others 
again, the existence of the Brothers must first be established by altogether 
plain and unequivocal evidence before it will seem worth while to pay 
attention to the report some of us make as to the specific doctrine they teach.  
I propose, therefore, to go over the evidence on this main question, which 
certainly underlies any with which the Theosophical Society, so far as it is 
concerned with the Indian teaching, can be engaged. Of course, I am not 
going to trouble you with any repetition of particular incidents already 
described in published writings. What I propose to do is briefly to review the 
whole case as it now stand, very greatly enlarged and strengthened as it has 
been during the last two years. The evidence, to begin with, divides itself into 
two kinds. First, we have the general body of current belief, which in India 
goes to show that such persons as Mahatmas or Adepts are somewhere in 
existence; secondly, the specific evidence which shows that the leaders of the 
Theosophical Society are in relation with, and in the confidence of, such 
Adepts.  
As to the general body of belief, it would hardly be too much to say that the 
whole mass of the sacred literature of India rests on belief in the existence of 
Adepts and a very widely-spread belief, covering great areas of space and 
time, can rarely be regarded as evolved from nothing -as having had no basis 
of fact. But passing over the Mahabharata and the Puranas and all they tell 
us concerning " Rishis or Adepts of ancient date, I may call your attention to 
a paper in the Theosophist of May 1882, on some relatively modern popular 
Indian books, recounting the lives of various " Sadhus," another word for 
saint, yogee, or Adept, who have lived within the last thousand years. In this 
article a list is given of over seventy such persons, whose memory is 
enshrined in a number of Marathi book", where the miracles they are said to 
have wrought are recorded. The historical value of their narratives may, of 
course, be disputed. I mention them merely as illustrations of the fact that 
belief in the persons having the power now ascribed to the Brothers is no new 
thing in India. And next we have the testimony of many modern writers 
concerning the very remarkable occult feats of Indian yogees and fakirs. Such 
people, of course, are immeasurably below the psychological rank of those 
whom we speak of as Brothers, but the faculties they possess, sometimes, will 
be enough to convince anyone who studies the evidence concerning them that 
living men can acquire powers and faculties commonly regarded as 
superhuman.  
In Jaccolliot's books about his experiences in Benares and elsewhere, this 
subject is fully dealt with, and some facts connected with it have even forced 
their way into Anglo-Indian official records. The Report of an English 
resident at the court of Runjeet Singh describes how he was present at the 
burial of a yogee who was shut up in a vault, by his own consent, for a 
considerable period -six weeks, I think, but I have not got the report at hand 
just now to quote in detail- and emerged alive, at the end of that time, which 
he had spent in Samadhi or trance. Such a man would, of course be an " 
Adept " of a very inferior type, but the record of his achievements has the 
advantage of being very well authenticated as far as it goes. Again, up to 
within a few years ago, a very highly spiritualized ascetic and gifted seer was 
living at Agra, where he taught a group of disciples, and by their own 
statement has frequently reappeared amongst them since his death. This 
event itself was an effort of will accomplished at an appointed time. I have 
heard a good deal about him from one of his principal followers, a cultivated 
and highly respected native Government official, now living at Allahabad. 
His existence, and the fact that he possessed great psychological gifts, are 
quite beyond question.  
Thus, in India, the fact that there are such people in the world as Adepts is 
hardly regarded as open to dispute. Most of those, of course, concerning 
whom one can obtain definite information, turn out on inquiry to be yogees of 
the inferior type, men who have trained their inner faculties to the extent of 
possessing various abnormal powers, and even insight into spiritual truths.' 
But none the less do all inquiries after Adepts superior to them in 
attainments provoke the reply that certainly there are such, though they live 
in complete seclusion, The general vague, indefinite belief, in fact, paves the 
way to the inquiry with which we are more immediately concerned -whether 
the leaders of the Theosophical Society are really in relation with some of the 
higher Adepts who do not habitually live amongst the community at large, 
nor make known the fact of their adeptship to any but their own regularly 
accepted pupils.  
~Now the evidence n this point divides itself as follows:  
?? First, We have the primary evidence of witnesses who have personally 
seen certain of these Adepts, both in the flesh and out of the flesh, who 
have seen their powers exercised, and who have obtained certain 
knowledge as to their existence and attributes.  
?? Secondly. The evidence of those who have seen them in the astral form, 
identifying them in various ways with the living men others have seen.  
?? Thirdly. The testimony of those who have acquired circumstantial 
evidence as to their existence.  
Foremost among the witnesses of the first group stand Madame Blavatsky 
and Colonel Olcott themselves. For those who see reason to trust Madame 
Blavatsky , her testimony is, of course ample and precise, and altogether 
satisfactory. She has lived among the Adepts for many years. She has been in 
almost daily communication with them ever since. She has returned to them, 
and they have visited her in their natural bodies on several occasions since 
she emerged from Tibet after her own initiation. There is an intermediate 
alternative between the conclusion that her statements concerning the 
Brothers are broadly true, and the conclusion that she is what some 
American enemies have called her, " the champion impostor of the age." I am 
aware of the theory which some Spiritualists entertain to the effect that she 
may be a medium controlled by spirits whom she mistakes for living men, but 
this theory can only be held by people who are quite inattentive to nine
tenths of the statements she makes, not to speak yet of the testimony of 
others. How can she have lived under the roof of certain persons in Tibet for 
seven years and more, seeing them and their friends and relation" going 
about the business of their daily lives, instructing her by slow degrees in the 
vast science to which she is devoted, and be in any doubt as to whether they 
are living men or spirits. The conjecture is absurd. She is either speaking 
falsely when she tells us that she has so lived among them, or the Adepts who 
taught her are living men. The Spiritualists hypothesis about her supposed 
"controls " is built upon the statement she makes, that the Adepts appear to 
her in the astral form when she is at a distance from them. If they had never 
appeared to her in any other form there would be room to argue the matter 
from the Spiritualists' point of view, or there might be, but for other 
circumstances again. But her astral visitors are identical in all respects with 
the men she has lived and studied amongst, At intervals, as I have said, she 
has been enabled to go back again and see them in the flesh. Her astral 
communication with them merely fills up the gap of her personal intercourse 
with them, which has extended over a long series of years. Her veracity may 
of course be challenged, though I think it can be shown that it is most 
unreasonable to challenge this, but we might as reasonably doubt the living 
reality of our nearest relations, of the people we live amongst most 
intimately, as suppose that Madame Blavatsky can be herself mistaken in 
describing the Brothers as living men. Either she must be right, or has 
consciously been weaving an enormous network of falsehood in all her 
writings, acts, and conversations for the last eight or nine years And the plea 
that she may be a loose talker and given to exaggeration will no more meet 
the difficulty than the Spiritualists' hypothesis. Pare away as much as you 
like from the details of Madame Blavatsky's statement on account of possible 
exaggeration, and that which remains is a great solid block of residual 
statement which must be either true, or a structure of conscious falsehood. 
And even if Madame Blavatsky's testimony stood alone, we should have the 
wonderful fact of her self-sacrifice in the cause of Theosophy to make the 
hypothesis of her being a conscious impostor one of the most extravagant that 
could be entertained. At first, when we in India who specially became her 
friends pointed this out, people said, "But how do you know that she had 
anything to sacrifice? she may have been an adventurer from the beginning." 
We proved this conjecture as I have fully explained in my preface to the 
second edition of the "Occult World", and from some of the foremost people in 
Russia, her relations and affectionate friends, came abundant assurances of 
her personal identity. If she had not given up her life to Occultism she might 
have spent it in luxury among her own people, and in fact as a member of the 
aristocratic class. 
Difficult as the hypothesis of her imposture thus becomes, we next find it in 
flagrant incompatibility with all the facts of Colonel Olcott's life. As 
undeniably as in the case of Madame Blavatsky, he has forsaken a life of 
worldly prosperity to lead the theosophical life, under circumstances of great 
physical self-denial, in India. And he also tells us that he has seen the 
Brothers, both in the flesh and in the astral form. By a long series of the most 
astounding thaumaturgic displays when he was first introduced to the 
subject in America, he was made acquainted with their powers. He has been 
visited at Bombay by the living man, his own special master, with whom he 
had first become acquainted by seeing him in the astral form in America. His 
life, for years, has been surrounded with the abnormal occurrences which 
Spiritualists again will sometimes conjecture - so wildly - to be Spiritualism, 
but which all hinge on to that continuous chain of relationship with the 
Brothers, which for Colonel Olcott has been partly a matter of occult 
phenomena, and partly a matter of waking intercourse between man and 
man. Again, in reference to Colonel Olcott, as in reference to Madame 
Blavatsky, I assert, fearlessly, that there is no compromises possible between 
the extravagant assumption that he is consciously lying in all he says about 
the Brothers, and the assumption that what he says establishes the existence 
of the Brothers as a broad fact, for remember that Colonel Olcott has now 
been a co-worker of Madame Blavatsky's and in constant intimate association 
with her for eight years. The notion the she has been able to deceive him all 
this while by fraudulent tricks, apart from its monstrosity in other ways, is 
too unreasonable to be entertained. Colonel Olcott, at all events, knows 
whether Madame Blavatsky is fraudulent or genuine, and he has given up 
his whole life to the service of the cause she represents in testimony of his 
conviction that she is genuine. Again the spiritualistic hypothesis comes into 
play. Madame Blavatsky may be a medium whose presence surrounds 
Colonel Olcott with phenomena ; but then she is herself deceived by astral 
influences as to the true nature of the Brothers who are the head and front of 
the whole phenomenal display, and we have a!ready seen reason, I think, to 
reject that hypothesis as absurd. There is logical escape from the conclusion 
that things are broadly as she and Colonel Olcott say, or they are both 
conscious impostors, rival champions of the age in this respect, both 
sacrificing everything that worldly-minded people live for, to revel in this 
lifelong imposture which brings them nothing but hard living and hard 
words. 
But the case for the authenticity of their statement, far from ending here, 
may in one sense be said to begin here. Our native Indian witnesses now 
come to the front. First, Damodar of whom the well known writer of " Hints 
on Esoteric Theosophy speaks as follows in that pamphlet:- 
" You specially in a former letter referred to Damodar, and you asked how it 
could be believed that the Brothers would waste time with a half-educated 
slip of a boy like him, and yet absolutely refuse to visit and convince men 
like------ and ------, Europeans of the highest education and marked abilities. 
But do you know that this slip of a boy has deliberately given up high caste, 
family and friends, and an ample fortune, all in pursuit of the truth. That be 
has for years lived that pure, unworldly self-denying life which we are told is 
essential to direct intercourse with the Brothers? 'Oh, a monomaniac,' you 
say ; 'of course he sees anything and everything. But do not you see whither 
this leads you ? Men who do not lead the life do not obtain direct proof of the 
existence of the Brothers. A man does lead the life and avers that he has 
obtained such proof, and you straightaway call him a monomaniac, and 
refuse his testimony,.... quite a " heads I win, tails you lose,' sort of position."  
Damodar has seen some of the Brothers visit the headquarters of the Society 
in the flesh. He has repeatedly been visited by them in the astral shape. He 
has himself gone through certain initiations; he has acquired very 
considerable powers, for he has been rapidly developed as regards these, 
expressly that he might be an additional link of connection, independently of 
Madame Blavatsky, between the Brothers, his masters, and the Theosophical 
Society. The whole life be leads is impressive testimony to the fact that he 
also knows the reality of the Brothers. On another hypothesis we must 
include Damodar in the conscious imposture supposed to be carried on by 
Madame Blavatsky, for he has been her intimate associate and devoted 
assistant, sharing her meals, doing her work, living under her roof at 
Bombay for several years. 
Shall we, then, rather than believe in the Brothers accept the hypothesis that 
Madame Blavatsky, Colonel Olcott, and Damodar are a band of conscious 
impostors? In that case Ramaswamy has to he accounted for. Ramaswamy is 
a very respectable, educated, English-speaking native of Southern India, in 
government service as a registrar of a court in Tinnevelly, I believe. I have 
met him several times. First, to indicate the course of his experience in a few 
words, -he sees the astral form of Madame Blavatsky's Guru, at Bombay; 
then he gets clairaudient communication with him,while many hundred 
miles away from all the Theosophists, at his own home in the South of India. 
Then he travels in obedience to that voice to Darjeeling; then be plunges 
wildly into the Sikkim jungles in search of the Guru, whom he has reason to 
believe in that neighbourhood, and after various adventures meets him, -the 
same man be has seen before in astral shape, the same man whose portrait 
Colonel Olcott has, and whom be has seen, the living speaker of the voice that 
has been leading him on from Southern India- He has a long interview with 
him, a waking, open-air, daylight interview,with a living man, and returns 
his devoted chela, as he is at this moment, and assuredly ever will be. Yet his 
master, who called him from Tinnevelly and received him in Sikkim, is of 
those who on the spiritualistic hypothesis are Madame Blavatsky's spirit 
controls. 
Two more witnesses who personally know the Brothers next come to me at 
Simla, in the persons of two regular chelas who have been sent across the 
mountains on some business, and are ordered en passant to visit me and tell 
me about their master, my Adept correspondent. These men had just come, 
when I first saw them, from living with the Adepts. One of them, Dhabagiri 
Nath, visited me several days running, talked to me for hours about Koot 
Hoomi- with whom he had been living for ten years, and impressed me and 
one or two others who saw him as a very earnest, devoted, and trustworthy 
person. Later on, during his visit to India, he was associated with many 
striking occult phenomena directed to the satisfaction of native inquirers. He, 
of course, must be a false witness, invented to prop up Madame Blavatsky's 
vast imposture, if he is anything else than the chela of Koot Hoomi that he 
declares himself to be. 
Another native, Mohini, soon after this, begins to get direct communication 
from Koot Hoomi independently altogether of Madame Blavatsky, and when 
hundreds of miles away from her. He also becomes a devoted adherent to the 
Theosophical cause; but Mohini must, as far as I am aware, be ranked in the 
second group of our witnesses, those who have had personal astral 
communication with the Brothers, but have not yet seen them in the flesh. 
Bhavani Rao, a young native candidate for chelaship, who came once in 
company with Colonel Olcott, but at a time when Madame Blavatsky was in 
another part of India, to see me at Allahabad, and spent two nights under our 
roof there, is another witness who has had independent communication with 
Koot Hoomi, and more than that, who is able himself to act as a link of 
communication between Koot Hoomi and the outer world, For during the visit 
I speak of, he was enabled to pass a letter of mine to the master, to receive 
back his reply, to get off a second note of mine, and to receive back a little 
note of a few words in reply again. I do not mean that he did all this of his 
own power, but that his magnetism was such as to enable Koot Hoomi to do it 
through him. The experience is valuable because it affords a striking 
illustration of the fact that Madame Blavatsky is not an essential 
intermediary in the correspondence between myself and my revered friend. 
Other illustrations are afforded by the frequent passage of letters between 
Koot Hoomi and myself through the mediation of Damodar at Bombay, at a 
time when both Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott were away at Madras, 
travelling about on a Theosophical tour, in the course of which their presence 
at various places was constantly mentioned in the local papers, I was at 
AIlahabad, and I used, during that time, to send my letters for Koot Hoomi to 
Damodar at Bombay, and occasionally receive replies so promptly that it 
would have been impossible for these to have been furnished by Madame 
Blavatsky, then four or more days further from me in the course of post than 
Bombay. 
In this way, my very voluminous correspondence is, demonstrably as regards 
portions of it, and therefore by irresistible inference as regards the whole, not 
the work of Madame Blavatsky, or Colonel Olcott, which, if the Brothers are 
not a reality, it must be, The correspondence is visible on paper, a 
considerable mass of it, How has it come into existence; reaching me at 
different places and times, and in different countries, and through different 
people? I do not quite understand what hypotheses can be framed by a 
nonbeliever in the Brothers about my correspondence. I can think of none 
which are not at once negatived by some of the facts about It. 
It would be useless to copy out from statements that from time to time have 
been published in the Theosophist the names of native witnesses who have 
seen the astral forms of the Brothers -spectral shapes which they were 
informed were such- about the headquarters of the Society at Bombay. Quite 
a cloud of witnesses would testify to such experiences, and I myself, I may 
add, saw such an appearance on one occasion at the Society's present 
headquarters in Madras. But, of course, it might be suggested of such 
appearances that they were spiritualistic. On the other hand, in that case the 
argument travels back to the considerations already pointed out, which show 
that the occult phenomena surrounding Madame Blavatsky cannot be 
Spiritualism. They can be, in fact, nothing but what we who know her 
intimately and are now closely identified with the Society believe them to be 
with all conviction- viz., manifestations of the abnormal psychological powers 
of those whom we speak of as the Brothers.  
As I write, Colonel Olcott and Mr. Mohini Mohun Chatterjee, mentioned 
above, are in London on a short visit, and many people have heard from their 
own lips the verification of what I have here stated- as far as it concerns 
them-and a great deal more besides. For during his recent tour in Northern 
India, Colonel Olcott had an opportunity of meeting the Mahatma Koot 
Hoomi personally in the flesh, and thus identifying his previous "astral " 
visitor. At the same time that this meeting took place, Mr. W. T. Brown, a 
young Scotchman who has recently become a devoted adherent to the 
Theosophical cause, also saw the Mahatma, and Mr. Lane Fox, who has gone 
out to India to follow up the clue afforded by the Theosophical Society, has 
been in receipt in India, by abnormal methods, of correspondence from Koot 
Hoomi, while Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott have been in Europe. 
Taking into account, in fact, over and above the evidence collected in these 
pages, the abundant information connected with the adepts which has 
latterly been poured out through the pages of the Theosophist, the magazine 
of the Theosophical Society now published at Madras, the argument in the 
form in which it is here presented is really out of date. Anyone who may still 
think with Mr. Kiddle, if he remains of the opinion expressed in his letter to 
Light, that the allegations of my book concerning the existence of the adepts 
and the facts of adeptship still remain to be proved, must be inaccessible to 
the force of reason, or still unacquainted with the literature of the subject.  
The second of the papers I wish to insert here, read like the first to a meeting 
of the Theosophists in London, dealt with the considerations which, after the 
existence of the Brothers is established, lead us to put confidence in the 
teaching they convey to us in regard to the origin and destinies of man and 
the whole problem of Nature. It is as follows: -  
Many people who approach the consideration of occult philosophy are inclined 
to lay great emphasis on the difference between believing in the existence of 
those whom we call "the Brothers," and believing in the vast and complicated 
body of teaching which has now been accumulated by their recent pupils. I 
think it can really be shown that there is no halting place at which a man 
who sets out on this enquiry can rationally pause and say, '" Thus far will I 
go, and no farther". The chain of considerations which will lead anyone who 
has once realised the existence of the Adepts to feel sure that there can be no 
great error in a conception of nature obtained with their help, consists of 
many links, but is really unbroken in its continuity, and equally capable of 
bearing a strain at any point.  
It consists of many links, partly because no one at present among those who 
are in our position as students- who are living, that is to say, an ordinary 
worldly life all the while that they are intellectually studying Occultism -can 
ever obtain in his own person a complete knowledge of the Adepts. He cannot, 
that is to say, come to know of his own personal knowledge all about even any 
one Adept. The full elucidation of this difficulty leads to a proper 
comprehension of the principle on which the Adepts shroud themselves in a 
partial seclusion, a seclusion which has only become partial within a very 
recent period, and was so complete until then that the world at large was 
hardly aware of the existence of any esoteric knowledge from which it could 
be shut out. This is a matter that is all the more important because 
experience has shown how the world at large has been quick to take offence 
at the hesitating and imperfect manner in which the Adepts have hitherto 
dealt with those who have sought spiritual instruction at their hands. 
Judging the occult policy pursued by comparison with inquiries on the plane 
of physical knowledge, the impatience of inquirers is very natural, but none 
the less does even a limited acquaintance with the conditions of mystic 
research show the occult policy to be reasonable likewise. 
Of course, everyone will admit that Adepts are justified in exercising great 
caution in regard to communicating any peculiar scientific knowledge which 
would put what are commonly called magical powers within the reach of 
persons not morally qualified for their exercise. But the considerations that 
prescribe this caution do not seem to operate also in reference to the 
communication of knowledge concerning the spiritual progress of man or the 
grander processes of evolution. And in truth the Adepts have come to that 
very conclusion; they have undertaken the communication to the general 
public of their safe theoretical knowledge, and the effort they are making 
merely hangs fire, or may seem to do so to some observers, by reason of the 
magnitude of the task in hand, and the novel aspect it wears, as well for the 
teachers as for the students. For remember, if there has been that change of 
policy on the part of the Adepts to which I have just referred, it has been a 
change of such recent origin that it may almost be described as only just 
coming on. And if the question be then asked, Why has this safe theoretical 
knowledge not been communicated sooner, it seems reasonable to find a reply 
to that question in the actual state of the intellectual world around us at this 
moment. The freedom of thought of which English writers often boast is not 
very widely diffused over the world as yet; and hardly, at all events, in any 
generation before this, could the free promulgation of quite revolutionary 
tenets in religious matters have been safely undertaken in any country. 
Communities in which such an undertaking would still be fraught with peril 
are even now more numerous than those in which it could be set on foot with 
any practical advantage. One can thus readily understand how in the occult 
world the question has been one of debate up to our own time, whether it was 
desirable as yet to promote the dissemination of esoteric philosophy in the 
world at large at the risk of provoking the acrimonious controversies, and 
even more serious disturbances, liable to arise from the premature disclosure 
of truths which only a small minority would really be ready to accept. 
Keeping this in view, the mystery of the Adepts' reserve, up till recently, can 
hardly be thought so astounding as to drive us on violent alternative 
hypotheses at variance with all the plain evidence concerning their present 
action. There is manifest reason why they should be careful in launching a 
body of newly-won disciples on to their general stream of human progress; 
and added to this, the force of their own training is such as to make them 
habitually cautious to a far greater extent than the utmost prudence of 
ordinary life would render ordinary men. "But," it will be argued, " granting 
all this, but assuming, that at last some of the Adepts, at all events, have 
come to the conclusion that some of their knowledge is ripe for presentation 
to the world, why do they not present as much as they do present, under 
guarantees of a more striking, irresistible, and conclusive kind than those 
which have actually been furnished ? " I think the answer may be easily 
drawn from the consideration of the way in which it would be natural to 
expect that a change of policy amongst the Adepts in a matter of this kind 
would gradually be introduced. By the hypothesis we conceive them but just 
coming to the conclusion that it is desirable to teach mankind at large some 
portions of that spiritual science hitherto conveyed exclusively to those who 
give tremendous pledges in justification of their claim to acquire it. They will 
naturally advance, in dealing with the world at large, along the same lines 
they have learned to trust in dealing with aspirants for regular initiation. 
Never in the history of the world have they sought out such aspirants, 
courted them or advertised for them in any way whatever. It has been found 
an invariable law of human progress that some small percentage of mankind 
will always come into the world invested by Nature with some of the 
attributes proper to adeptship, and with minds so constituted as to catch 
conviction as to the possibilities of the occult life, from the least little sparks 
of evidence on the subject that may be floating about. Of persons so 
constituted some have always been found to press forward into the ranks of 
chelaship, to resort, that is to say, to any devices or opportunities that 
circumstances may afford them for fathoming occult knowledge. When thus 
besieged by the aspirant the Adept has always, sooner or later, disclosed 
himself. The change of policy now introduced prescribes that the Adept shall 
make one step towards the disclosure of himself in advance of the aspirant's 
demand upon him, but we can easily understand how the Adept, in first 
making this change, would argue that if many chelas have hitherto come 
forward in the absence of any spontaneous action from his side, it might be 
that an almost dangerous rush of ill qualified aspirants would be invited by 
any manifestation from him that should be more than a very slight one. At 
any rate, the Adept would say it would be premature to begin by too 
sensational a display of faculties inherent in advanced spiritual knowledge 
with which the world at large is as yet unfamiliar. It will be better at first to 
make such an offer as will only be calculated to inflame the imagination of 
persons only one step removed beyond those whose natural instincts would 
lead them into the occult life. This appears actually to have been the 
reasoning on which the Adepts have proceeded so far, and this may help us to 
understand how it is that, as I began by saying, no one person amongst those 
outer students, who have been called lay-chelas, has yet been enabled to say 
that of his own personal knowledge he knows all about any of the Adepts.  
On the other hand, putting together the various scattered revelations 
concerning the Brothers which have been distributed amongst various people 
in India belonging to the Theosophical Society, so much can be learned about 
the Adepts as to put us in a very strong position in regard to estimating their 
qualifications for speaking with confidence as they do about the actual facts 
of Nature on the superphysical plane. These scattered revelations -if my 
reasoning in what has gone before may be accepted -have been broken up and 
thrown about in fragments designedly, in order that as yet it should only be 
possible to arrive at a full conviction concerning Adeptship after a certain 
amount of trouble spent in piecing together the disjointed proofs. But when 
this process is accomplished we are provided with a certain block of 
knowledge concerning the Adepts, out of which large inferences must 
necessarily grow. We find, to begin with, that they do unequivocally possess 
the power of cognizing event and facts on the physical plane of knowledge 
with which we are familiar, by other means than those connected with the 
five senses. We find also that they unequivocally possess the power of 
emerging from their proper bodies and appearing at distant places in more or 
less ethereal counterparts thereof which are not only agencies for producing 
impressions on others but habitations for the time being of the Adepts' own 
thinking principles, and thus in themselves, if the proof went no further, 
demonstration of the fact that a human soul is something quite independent 
of brain matter and nerve centres. I do not stop now to enumerate instances. 
The record of evidence must be dissociated from its manipulation in 
arguments like the present, but the records are abundant and accessible for 
all who will take the trouble of examining them. Now, if we know that the 
Adept's soul can pass at his own discretion into that state in which its 
perceptive faculties are independent of corporeal machinery, it is not 
surprising that he should be enabled to make, of his own knowledge, a great 
many statements concerning processes of Nature, reaching far beyond any 
knowledge that can be obtained by mere physical observation. Take for 
example, the Adepts' statement that certain other planets besides this earth, 
are concerned with the growth of the great crop of humanity of which we form 
a part. This is not advanced as a conjecture or inference. The Adepts tell us 
that once out of the body they find they can cognize events on some other 
planets as well as in distant parts of our own. This is not the exceptional 
belief of an exceptional!y organised individual, who may be regarded by 
doubters as hallucinated; there is no room for doubting the fact that it is the 
concurrent testimony' of a considerable body of men engaged in the constant 
experimental exercise of similar faculties. In this way the fact becomes as 
much a fact of true science, as the fact that the great nebula Orion, for 
instance, exhibits a gaseous spectrum, and is therefore a true nebula. All of 
us who have star spectroscope can ascertain that fact for ourselves, if we 
make use of a clear night when the conditions of observation are possible. To 
doubt it, would not be to show greater caution than is exercised by those who 
believe it, but merely an imperfect appreciation of the evidence. It is true that 
in regard to the condition of the other planets our acceptance of the Adepts' 
statement must be governed by our impressions concerning the bona fides of 
their intention in telling us that they have made such and such observations. 
So far it is a matter of inference with us whether the Adepts are saying what 
they believe to be true-when they speak of the septenary chain of planets to 
which the earth belongs -or consciously deluding us with a rigmarole of 
statements which they know to be false. I think it can be shown in a variety 
of ways, that the latter supposition is absurd. But an exhaustive examination 
of its absurdity would be a considerable task in itself. For the moment the 
position I am endeavouring to establish is one which does not depend upon 
the question whether the Adepts are telling us, in reference to the planets, 
what they know to be true, or something which they know to be untrue. My 
present position is that at all events the Adepts themselves know what is 
true In the matter, and that position, it will be observed, is not vitiated by the 
fact that, as yet, we, their most recent pupils, are unable to follow In their 
footsteps and repeat the experiments on which their teaching rests.  
The same train of reasoning may be applied to the whole body of teaching 
which the Theosophical Society is now concerned in endeavouring to 
assimilate. As offered now to the uninitiated world, it can only take the form 
of a set of statement on authority. And that sort of statement is not one which 
is most agreeable to our methods or to the Adepts' habitual methods of 
teaching. For there is no chemical laboratory in England where the system of 
teaching Is more rigidly confined to the direction of the learner's own 
experiments, than that same system is adopted with occult chelas following 
the regular course of initiation. Step by step, as the regular chela is told that 
such and such is the fact in regard to the inner mysteries of Nature, he is 
shown how to apply his own developing faculties to the direct observation of 
such facts, But those developing faculties carry with them, as pointed out a 
while ago, fresh powers over Nature which can only be entrusted to those 
from whom the Adepts take the recognised pledges. In teaching outsiders as 
they are trying to do now, the Adepts must depart from their own habitual 
methods,- we must depart, if we wish to understand what they are willing to 
teach, from our habitual methods of inquiry. We must suspend our usual 
demand for proof of each statement made, in turn as it is advanced. We must 
rest our provisional trust in each statement on our broad general conviction 
which can be satisfied along familiar lines of demonstration, -that such men 
as the Adepts certainly exist, even though we cannot visit them at pleasure, 
that they must understand an enormous block of Nature's laws outside the 
range of those which the physical senses cognize, that in any statement they 
make to us they must be in a position to know absolutely whether that 
statement is or is not true.  
This much fully realised-, the truth is that each inquirer in turn becomes 
satisfied, pari passu with his realisation of the case so far, that reason revolts 
against the notion that the Adepts can be engaged in their present attempt to 
convey some of their own knowledge to the world at large in any other than 
the purest good faith. It may be concluded that we who have come to the 
conclusion that their teaching is altogether to be accepted, are rearing a large 
inverted pyramid upon a small base. But the logical strength of our position 
is not impaired by this objection. In every branch of human knowledge, 
inferences far transcend the observed facts out of which they grow. And even 
in the most exact science of all, a theorem is held to be proved if any 
alternative hypothesis is found, on examination to be irrational. Moreover, 
the doctrine even of legal testimony recognises the value of secondary 
evidence where in the nature of the case It is impossible that primary 
evidence can be forthcoming. That is exactly the state of the case in regard to 
the present attempt to bridge the gulf that separates the school of physical 
research from the from the school of spiritual knowledge. As long as we of 
this side were justified in doubting whether there was anywhere on earth 
such a thing as a school of spiritual knowledge, it may have been hardly 
worth while to worry ourselves with the stray fragments of its teaching which 
now and then broke loose in barely intelligible shapes. But to doubt the 
existence of such a school now is equivalent, really to doubting the statement 
about the nebula in Orion, according to the illustration I adduced just now. It 
can only arise from inattention to the facts of the whole case as these now 
stand, -from reluctance to take that trouble to examine these thoroughly, 
which still, as a sort of hedge, separates the Theosophical Society from the 
general community in the midst of which it is planted. Regarded in the light 
of an occult barrier, -as an obstacle which corresponds, in the case of the lay
chela to the really serious ordeals which have to be crossed by the regular 
chela, - the necessity of taking this trouble can hardly be regarded as a hedge 
that it is difficult to traverse. And on the other side there lies a wealth of 
information concerning the mysteries of Nature which clearly lights up vast 
regions of the past and future hitherto shrouded in total darkness for critical 
intelligences, and the prey for others of untrustworthy conjecture. For those 
who once thoroughly go into the matter, and obtain a complete mastery over 
all the considerations I have put forward, -who thus obtain full conviction the 
Brothers certainly exist, that they must be acquainted with the actual facts 
about Nature behind and beyond this life, that they are now ready to convey 
a considerable block of their knowledge to us, and that it is ridiculous to 
distrust their bona fides in doing this, -for all such true Theosophists of the 
Theosophical Society, nothing, at present, connected with spiritual success is 
comparable in importance with the study of the vast doctrine now in process 
of delivery Into our hands.  