This page intentionally left blank
THE HAMMEROFWITCHES
 The Malleus Maleficarum, first published in 1486, is the standard
 medieval text on witchcraft and it remained in print throughout
 the early modern period. Its descriptions of the evil acts of witches
 and the ways to exterminate them continue to contribute to our
 knowledge of early modern law, religion and society. Mackay’s
 highly acclaimed translation, based on his extensive research and
 detailed analysis of the Latin text, is the only complete English
 version available, and the most reliable. Now available in a single
 volume, this key text is at last accessible to students and scholars
 of medieval history and literature. With detailed explanatory notes
 and a guide to further reading, this volume offers a unique insight
 into the fifteenth-century mind and its sense of sin, punishment
 and retribution.
 Christopher S. Mackay is Professor in the Department of
 History and Classics at the University of Alberta. He is the author
 of, among many books and articles, Ancient Rome: A Military and
 Political History (Cambridge University Press, 2005).

THE HAMMEROFWITCHES
 A Complete Translation of the Malleus Maleficarum
 CHRISTOPHER S. MACKAY
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS
 Cambridge, New York, Melbourne, Madrid, Cape Town, Singapore, São Paulo
 Cambridge University Press
 The Edinburgh Building, Cambridge CB2 8RU, UK
 Published in the United States of America by Cambridge University Press, New York
 www.cambridge.org
 Information on this title: www.cambridge.org/9780521747875
 © Christopher S. Mackay 2006, 2009
 This publication is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception and to the 
provision of relevant collective licensing agreements, no reproduction of any part
 may take place without the written permission of Cambridge University Press.
 First published in print format
 ISBN-13 978-0-511-53982-4
 ISBN-13    978-0-521-74787-5
 2009
 eBook (EBL)
 paperback
 Cambridge University Press has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy 
of urls for external or third-party internet websites referred to in this publication, 
and does not guarantee that any content on such websites is, or will remain, 
accurate or appropriate.
Kelliae meae
 Coniugi atque adiutrici
 optimae

Contents
 Maps pageviii
 Introduction 1
 Authors 2
 Purposeofthework 6
 Compositionandpublicationofthework 7
 Outlineofthework 12
 Sources 16
 Disputedquestions 17
 Intellectualcontext 19
 Roleofwomeninsorcery 25
 Historicalbackground 27
 OverallassessmentoftheMalleus 31
 Suggestionsforfurtherreading 39
 Notesonthetranslation 42
 (a) Methodofmakingreferencestothetext 42
 (b) Sourcesnotfromcanonlaw 42
 (c) Citationsofcanonlaw 52
 (d)Outliningofthedisputedquestions 55
 (e) Remarksoncertainwordsinthetranslation 56
 (f) Difficultieswithgrammaticalgender 58
 the hammer of witches (malleus maleficarum) 59
 vii
ine
 se
 4°E 8 °E
 Lüttich
 (Liège)
 50°N
 48°N
 N
 le
 el
 M
 Ill
 S
 a
 os
 ôn
 e
 46°N
 h
 Rh
 u
 Lausanne
 n
 Me
 Map 1
 6°E
 10°E
 Cologne
 Aachen
 SEE DETAIL
 HESSE
 Marburg
 ai
 Nuremberg
 Metz
 Rohrbach
 Lendelbrunn
 Wiesenthal
 Strasburg
 Schlettstadt
 Freiburg
 Basel
 M
 12°E
 ch
 14°E
 sc
 Et
 50°N
 Tachov
 Regensburg
 In
 e
 Landshut
 Augsburg
 Lake
 Constance
 L
 Lindau
 Berne
 Boltigen
 Geneva
 SAVOY
 ne
 hô
 e
 100
 150
 0 50
 200
 R
 4°E
 0
 ub
 50
 100
 Einsiedeln
 Bormio/
 Wormserbad
 Isar
 Como
 250 km
 150 miles
 Füssen
 Freising
 Innsbruck
 Brixen
 Trent
 Adriatic
 Sea
 10°E 1
 2°
 48°N
 46°N
 E 14
 °E
 D
 an
 S
 en
 m
 i
 n
 m
 Southern Germany and surrounding areas
Map 2
 9°E 1 0
 °E 1 1
 0
 0
 49°N
 48°N
 F O R E S T
 Ill
 Rhine
 20
 N
 40
 20
 Zaberne
 60
 40
 Reichshofen
 80
 100 km
 60 miles
 Landau
 Lendelbrunn
 Hagenau
 Strasburg
 Schlettstadt
 Kinzheim
 (Ribeauville)
 Rappolsweiler
 Königsheim
 (Königsburg?)
 Bühl
 Gübweiler
 Thann
 Breisach
 C K
 Rohrbach
 Wiesenthal
 S
 W A
 °E
 Nuremberg
 Eningen
 B I
 Hohenzollern
 Castle
 Freiburg
 B L A
 Oberweiler
 Rötenbach
 Waldshut
 Basel
 7°E
 8°E
 Fürstenberg
 Weingarten
 Constance
 R
 hi
 ne
 9
 Ravensburg
 Lake
 Constance
 Lindau
 Augsburg
 A
 Mindelheim
 Eisenberg
 Le
 Füssen
 °E 1
 0°
 49°N
 48°N
 E 11
 °E
 e
 b
 u
 D
 ch
 an
 Southern Germany

Introduction
 The Malleus Maleficarum is undoubtedly the best known (many would
 say most notorious) treatise on witchcraft from the early modern period.
 Published in 1486 (only a generation after the introduction of printing
 by moveable type in Western Europe), the work served to popularize
 the new conception of magic and witchcraft that is known in modern
 scholarship as satanism or diabolism, and it thereby played a major role
 in the savage efforts undertaken to stamp out witchcraft in Western
 Europe in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries (a series of events
 sometimes known as the “witch craze”). The present work offers the
 reader the only full and reliable translation of the Malleus into English,1
 andthis introduction has a very specific purpose: to set out for the reader
 the general intellectual and cultural background of the Malleus, which
 takes for granted and is based upon a number of concepts that are by no
 means self-evident to the average modern reader, and to explain some
thing of the circumstances of the work’s composition and the authors’
 methods and purposes in writing it. That is, the aim here is the very
 restricted one of giving the reader a better insight into how the work
 would have been understood at the time of its publication. Hopefully,
 this will help not only those who wish to understand the work in its own
 rightbutalsothosewhoareinterestedinthelatereffectsofthisinfluential
 work.
 At the outset, a word about terminology. As is explained later (see
 below in section e of the “Notes on the translation”), for technical rea
sons relating to the Latin text, male and female practitioners of magic
 are called “sorcerers” and “sorceresses” respectively in the translation,
 1 There is another modern English translation in the form of P. G. Maxwell-Stuart, The Malleus
 Maleficarum (Manchester and New York: Manchester University Press, 2007). This is only a
 partial translation (it merely summarizes large portions of the text in order to stay within some
 arbitrary length prescribed by the publisher) and is based on a late edition of the text (Frankfurt,
 1588).
 1
2
 The Hammer of Witches
 and the term for their practices is “sorcery.” In the preceding para
graph, the term “witchcraft” was used, but this term comes with a lot of
 unwelcome modern baggage that can only serve to confuse the strictly
 historical discussion that follows. Accordingly, “sorceress” and “sorcery”
 will henceforth be usedinplaceof“witch”and“witchcraft”toemphasize
 the point that what we are dealing with are the notions that were held
 about magic and its practitioners in the late medieval and early modern
 periods.
 In view of the intended audience, the material here is largely laid out
 very briefly as a straightforward discussion without elaborate footnotes
 or citation of relevant authorities. Apart from the further reading given
 at the end, the reader who wishes to learn more detail about the various
 topics or to find out specific citations of sources is directed to the far
 more elaborate General Introduction to be found in volume i of my
 bilingual edition entitled Malleus Maleficarum (Cambridge University
 Press, 2006).
 authors
 According to the Author’s Justification of the Malleus, there were two
 authors– Jacobus Sprenger and an unnamed collaborator– whose
 respective roles in the composition of it are not specified. In the public
 declaration thatconstitutestheApprobationofthework,HenricusInsti
toris indicates that he and his colleague as inquisitor, Jacobus Sprenger,
 wrote the Malleus. There is some dispute about this joint authorship in
 modern scholarship, but, before turning to this, we should look at what
 is known of these two men.
 AsbothmenwereDominicanfriars,afewwordsaboutthisinstitution
 may be helpful. The Order of Preachers (the official name of the order)
 was founded in the early thirteenth century to combat heresy. Though
 Dominicans took the same sort of vows of poverty as monks, these friars
 did not withdraw from the secular world by joining a monastery, but
 lived in society as part of their mission to root out heresy and enforce
 orthodoxy among the laity. Since the Order was intended to subvert
 heretical opposition to Church teachings, the Dominicans soon became
 involved in theological studies in order to sharpen their skills in spotting
 and rebutting heretical views. Hence, there was often a close connection
 between the local Dominican convent and the theological faculty at a
 neighboring university. These skills made it natural for the papacy to
 appoint Dominicans as inquisitors into heretical depravity.
Introduction
 3
 Jacobus(theLatinizedformofJacob)Sprengerwasborninabout1437,
 andpresumablycamefromtheareaofBasel,asheisfirstattested joining
 the Dominican convent in that city in 1452. He went on to become an
 important figure in the Dominican Order, and was mostly associated
 with the convent of Cologne and the university of that city. Sprenger
 eventually became a professor of theology, serving as an administrator
 in both the theological faculty and the university as a whole. Sprenger
 was also interested in practical piety. He actively promoted the reform
 movement within the Order, which advocated a return to a simpler
 way of life among the residents of Dominican convents, and he was
 assigned the task of imposing reform in a number of these, even in
 the face of opposition from the residents. Sprenger would have been
 most famous in his lifetime for playing a prominent role in the spread
 of the practice of reciting the Rosary. Though he was appointed as
 an inquisitor in the Rhineland in 1481, there is no evidence for any
 active participation in this activity on his part (he is attested as being
 consulted in a few cases). Sprenger also showed little inclination for
 writing. Apart from an unpublished theological commentary written in
 connection with his early academic studies, his only composition was a
 short work aboutthesociety he founded to promotetheRosary.Hedied
 in 1495.
 HenricusInstitoris (the Latinized form of theGermannameHeinrich
 Kramer) was born around 1430 in the Alsatian town of Schlettstadt
 (modern S´ el´ estat). He joined the local Dominican convent, but went
 ontobeattachedtoanumberofotherconventsinthesouthernGerman
speaking lands. Like Sprenger, he became a professor of theology, but
 unlike Sprenger he did not pursue an academic career. Instead, Institoris
 was more interested in missions among the laity, and he tended to work
 on his own. He was deeply involved in the sale of indulgences, and in
 particular he undertook a number of tasks connected with the defense
 of papal privileges and the enforcement of orthodoxy. He spent his
 last years combatting the Hussite heresy in Bohemia, where he died
 in 1505.
 Institoris clearly had a strong personality, and was something of an
 individualist. He got into a certain amount of strife with his fellow friars,
 and at one time went so far as to rebuke the Holy Roman Emperor
 Frederick III in a sermon, for which he himself was censured by the
 Order. But none of this undermined the clear trust that was placed in
 Institoris by his superiors, who continued to employ him on important
 tasks. Institoris was a respected figure, who preached before the king of
4
 The Hammer of Witches
 Bohemia, was entertained by the wealthy Fuggers family in Augsburg,
 and was consulted by the city council of Nuremberg on the correct
 method of prosecuting sorceresses. Institoris was apparently a man who
 enjoyed writing. In addition to the Malleus, the Memorandum written
 for the bishopofBrixen,andtheNurembergHandbook (forthelattertwo
 works, see below), he composed works in defense of papal supremacy
 and against the Hussites.
 Institoris enjoyed the support of Popes Sixtus IV and Innocent VIII,
 and was appointed by them as inquisitor into heretical depravity in a
 number of German dioceses. Unlike Sprenger, Institoris enjoyed the
 task of acting as an itinerant inquisitor. In the Malleus, he claims to have
 had 48 women condemned for the crime, and in the later Nuremberg
 Handbook the number rises to 200. Oddly, there is little evidence for
 this activity, even in the Malleus. There are several references in the
 text to the trial and execution of Agnes the bath keeper and Anna of
 Mindelheim for sorcery as the result of an inquisition conducted in
 Ravensburg in 1484. As it happens, a report on this inquisition written
 by the burgermasters and city council of the town is preserved, and this
 indicates that the inquisition was conducted by a “Brother Heinrich,”
 and confirms the general outline of events as laid out in the Malleus.
 Another inquisition that is reported in some detail in the Malleus took
 place in Innsbruck in late 1485 and early 1486. Institoris investigated
 sorcery among the population of Innsbruck and neighboring towns,
 and eventually laid charges against eight women. There were objections
 to his handling of the case from the start, and eventually Bishop George
 of Brixen, in whose diocese Innsbruck lay, took over the proceedings.
 At first, Bishop George took the line that, even though he took some
 exception to his methods, Institoris’s credentials as inquisitor meant
 that there was no choice but to assist him. In late October, however,
 the bishop had to intervene directly in the case, which was basically
 allowed to lapse. Even though the bishop made it clear to Institoris that
 there were objections to his involvement, he did so diplomatically, and
 Institoris turned over to the bishop the protocol of his investigations and
 a memorandum (the Memorandum cited above) on the legal method of
 prosecutingsorceresses,apparentlyundertheassumptionthatthebishop
 would go on with prosecuting the cases. In February, the bishop had to
 write a letter demanding that Institoris leave the diocese. Nonetheless,
 he wrote in such a way as to avoid direct criticism of the friar, who,
 to judge from the positive terms in which the bishop is mentioned in
Introduction
 5
 the Malleus (95A, 136D2), bore the bishop no ill-will as a result of his
 dealings with him.
 The argument is frequently made that the description of the work
 as a joint composition is a falsehood perpetrated by Institoris, who in
 fact wrote the whole thing himself. For this claim, there is little solid
 evidence. The argument was first made by the nineteenth-century Ger
manhistorian Joseph Hansen, who took a dim view of the late medieval
 and early modern Hexenwahn (“witch craze”) and of those who carried
 it out. He based his case on certain procedural irregularities in the draw
ing up of the Approbation, the fact that the Approbation was initially
 published separately from the main text of the Malleus, and an unsub
stantiated statement in a later source that two of the signatories of the
 Approbation asserted that they had not in fact signed it. The procedural
 irregularities signify nothing (after all, if the text were a forgery, why
 would it include proof of its own falsehood?) and the separate publica
tioniseasilyexplained(seebelow).Asfortheevidenceofalaterdisavowal
 on the part of some signatories, this is indeed interesting, but since we
 know of this only from a short and much later remark and the records
 of the university have mostly been lost, there is not much that can be
 made of this (even if true, the two men may have had their own reasons
 for dissociating themselves from the proceedings that had nothing to do
 with a forgery on the part of Institoris). Later scholars have attempted
 to add small pieces to the argument, but it is fundamentally nugatory.
 Only an imbecile would have fabricated a claim to joint authorship in
 a sworn document that would be included with the forgery and which
 it would be impossible to keep from coming to the notice of the man
 whowasbeing falsely associated with the work. In any event, what good
 would it do Institoris? He was clearly a man of no little prominence in
 his own right as both inquisitor and theologian, and he did not need to
 steal the name of a scholar from Cologne who was most noted for his
 propagation of the Rosary to validate his work about sorcery.
 Is it then possible to divide up the composition among the two
 authors? Comparison with the Memorandum shows very close parallels
 with Pt. 3, which clearly must be attributed to Institoris. The numer
ous references in Pt. 2 to the prosecutions in Ravensburg and Inns
bruck also suggest that it too is the work of Institoris. In addition, that
 part deals mainly with the practices of sorcery and the cures for these,
 and such topics are far more likely to be ascribable to the inquisitor
 2 Forthemethodofcitingthetextusedhere,seebelowinsectionaofthe“Notesonthetranslation.”
6
 The Hammer of Witches
 Institoris than the academic Sprenger. That leaves Pt. 1, which is mainly
 taken up with the demonstration of the existence of sorceresses and of
 a particular theological interpretation of sorcery, a demonstration that
 is presented in the special form of argumentation (the “disputed ques
tion,”whichisdiscussedbelow)characteristicofcontemporaryacademic
 practice (scholasticism). While Institoris’s academic background must
 have made him familiar with the discourse of scholasticism, surely this
 mode of argumentation would have been most familiar to the academic
 Sprenger (one might also note that the question at the start of Institoris’s
 Pt. 3 is drawn up in a clumsy manner). As already noted, Sprenger was
 not particularly given to writing, so it is conceivable he either restricted
 himself to Pt. 1, or perhaps simply vetted the arguments. This is mere
 speculation, but whatever the exact nature of Sprenger’s participation,
 the arguments adduced in support of Institoris’s supposed concoction
 of such participation out of whole cloth are not at all cogent.
 purpose of the work
 There was no single audience for whom the Malleus was intended, and
 the three parts served different purposes. Numerous references in Pt. 1
 indicate that it was meant to provide material for the correct method of
 preaching on the topic of the reality of sorcery. The reason for this was
 the perceived needtocounteractthepreachingofpriestswhodeniedthis
 reality. Though it may have been thought that any priest could benefit
 from reading the work, presumably the main audience foreseen for the
 scholastic argumentation of the Malleus were other members of the
 Dominican Order, who were specifically obligated to study theology
unliketheratherpoorlyeducatedsecular(i.e.,parish)clergyofthetime
and whose very purpose was to spread this learning through sermons.
 The case is not so clear with Pt. 2, which deals with the procedures
 of the sorceresses and the ways to counteract these. At one point, it is
 stated that a certain explanation has been provided for the purposes of
 preaching (106D), but at another it is indicated that some of the matter
 should not be preached (142C). Finally, Pt. 3 seems to have a distinct
 and separate purpose of its own. It lays out the method of prosecuting
 heretical sorceresses, and an introductory passage (193D) indicates that
 it is addressed to both ecclesiastical and secular judges for their practical
 use.
 Thus, the general purpose of the work is to demonstrate the view
 about sorcery held by Institoris (and presumably also Sprenger), against
Introduction
 7
 the opposition of unspecified critics both secular and ecclesiastical. The
 work attempts to prove the reality of sorcery, delineates the practices of
 sorceresses, andlaysoutthewaytodirectlycounteractthosepracticesand
 to deal with the problem as a whole by exterminating the practitioners
 of sorcery through their conviction in court and execution. This overall
 conception is reflected in the title of the work.
 The phrase malleus haereticorum (“hammer of heretics”) was a term
 of approbation dating back to antiquity to designate those zealots of
 orthodoxy who were noteworthy for their efforts to “smash” heretics
 (adherents of Christian doctrines rejected by the Church). The term
 was transferred to a literary work with the Malleus Judeorum (“Hammer
 of Jews”) of the inquisitor John of Frankfurt, which appeared around
 1420. Thissettheprecedentforthetitle ofourMalleus,withtheheretical
 sorceresses (maleficae) replacing the traditional heretics as the object of
 its attack. The Malleus Maleficarum is thus a hammer to be used to
 smash the conspiracy of sorceresses that was thought to be threatening
 the very existence of Christendom (this belief is treated below).
 composition and publication of the work
 Byahappycoincidence,it wasdiscovered in the 1950s that some internal
 business records of Peter Drach, the man whose press in the western
 German town of Speyer issued the first edition of the Malleus, had been
 reused as part of the backing of a book, and some of these records
 relate to the Malleus. The book was already being dispatched for sale
 in February 1487, and another record refers to an unnamed treatise on
 sorcery being dispatched in an unspecified December; since the later
 records refer to the work by name, it would seem that the December
 in question was in 1486. The Malleus itself refers to events from 1485
 pertaining to Institoris’s abortive inquisition in Innsbruck. Since the
 task of typesetting and actually printing the work would have taken
 some time, it would seem that the clean copy must have been submitted
 by the fall of 1486. The actual composition of the work may date to
 an earlier period, with the anecdotes about Innsbruck being added in a
 f
 inal revision (it’s hard to imagine such a long work being put together
 in just a few months in 1486).
 The first edition of the Malleus is peculiar in that two short sections
 from the front of what was meant to be a single work were actually pub
lished separately and were added to the main text only with the second
 edition. Before discussing the reason for this seemingly odd procedure,
8
 The Hammer of Witches
 it would be useful to discuss the content of the various sections of the
 work in the order in which they appear here.
 Justification
 The first section of the main body of the first edition is the Author’s
 (Self-)Justification (apologia). This section is the equivalent of a modern
 introduction and/or preface. Here, it is stated in the first person plural
 that Jacobus Sprenger and an unnamed co-author had produced the
 work because of their realization that sorcery forms a particular element
 in Satan’s final assault on God during the End Times. The fact that the
 word “author” appears in the singular has been cited as evidence that
 Institoris was the real author and made up Sprenger’s participation, but
 not much should be made of this. In the first place, it may simply be a
 clumsy conversion into Latin of a German form (note the confusion in
 English as to whether it’s Veterans’ Day or Veteran’s Day). In any event,
 Institoris would have been a pretty clumsy forger if he himself left such
 blatant evidence of his own fraud.
 Bull
 A papal bull is a form of official letter issued by the pope and authen
ticated with a special seal (bulla). The bull reproduced here (known
 as summis desiderantes after its opening words in Latin) was issued
 by Pope Innocent VIII in 1484 to help Institoris and Sprenger over
come opposition that they had met in connection with exercising the
 office of inquisitor. This bull follows the standard format. After the
 sterotyped salutation, the document lays out the situation that led to its
 issuance, and then specifies the actions that the pope authorizes or man
dates. In this instance, the general harm that sorceresses are inflicting in
 Germany is first described at some length, and the connection of these
 activities with Satan is emphasized. It is then noted that Institoris’s and
 Sprenger’s efforts to stamp these activities out had met with opposi
tion in the form of technical objections relating to the specific offenses
 that were covered by their appointment as inquisitors, which the pope
 then overrides by reiterating and amplifying the terms of the inquisitors’
 appointment.
 Whywasthis document included? Clearly, Institoris believed it to be
 a papal validation of the view of sorcery that he advocated. Not only
 is the bull cited several times in the Malleus in these terms, but he still
Introduction
 9
 referred to it for the same purpose in the Nuremberg Handbook of 1491.
 For the same reason, modern critics who wish to ascribe the views in the
 Malleus to the Catholic Church (and censure the Church for approv
ing these views) not surprisingly cite this bull. Given the procedures
 for the production of papal bulls, the body of the text giving the back
ground to the order at the end was taken more or less verbatim from
 the petition in which the bull was requested.3 This means that both the
 conception and phraseology go back to Institoris. The pope presum
ably knew nothing independently about the matter, though obviously
 he raised no objections since he granted the request (and borrowed its
 language).
 Approbation
 The “Approbation” is an official certification of the orthodoxy of the
 Malleus plus a validation of four specific points relating to sorcery that
 represent the general thrust of the work’s argument. This approbation
 takes the form of a public document drawn up on May 19, 1487,atthe
 request under oath of Institoris, on behalf of himself and Sprenger as
 the authors of the Malleus. The proceedings are then carried out under
 the careful guidance of Lambertus de Monte, the head of the theological
 faculty of the University of Cologne, who first states his own approval
 of the questions to be approved, and is then followed with greater or
 lesser enthusiasm by other members of the faculty who were present.
 The proceedings were based on the faculty members’ prior reading of
 the work.
 Joseph Hansen made much of the fact that the notary public who
 drew up the document states that he had to leave at one point, and
 combined this with the now lost notice that two of the other theology
 professors later objected that theyhadnotinfactbeenpresent.Asalready
 noted, we have no idea what these objections actually consisted of, and
 it hardly makes sense to use the evidence of the document itself to prove
 that the proceedings were invalid (why would someone who concocted
 such proceedings put in irregularities to undermine their credibility?).
 It is sometimes misunderstood that Hansen claimed that the document
 was a forgery, but what he actually claimed was that the proceedings
 were flawed. As it is, Hansen could give no explanation of why Institoris
 should have engaged in such an effort to produce a false document to
 3 Interestingly enough, the text of the petition was recently found in the papal archives (this appears
 as an appendix to the bilingual edition).
10
 The Hammer of Witches
 claim Sprenger as a co-author, much less why the head of the theological
 faculty and the notary should have co-operated in such a pointless and
 dangerous fraud.
 As for the actual purpose of the exercise, while Institoris could only
 produce implicit papal confirmation of the views propounded in the
 Malleus via the background information in the bull of 1484, here he
 acquired direct validation of the work itself in the form of theapprovalof
 oneofthemostprestigioustheologicalfacultiesinGermany–one,more
over, that had a reputation as a staunch upholder of standard orthodoxy.
 After an elaborate table of contents, the main body follows. This consists
 of three parts known as books. The work has a large number of cross
references, which for the most part hold true. There are, however, a
 few that indicate that there was some reordering of the material before
 the work reached its final form, and the table of contents shows a few
 deviations from the actual content. On the whole, such inconsistencies
 are few, and given the elaborate structure of the work and the conditions
 under which it was produced, it is commendable that the signposting
 of the work is so accurate.
 Part 1
 Part 1ismeanttodemonstrate,againstskepticismonthepartofbothlaity
 and certain clergymen, the reality of sorcery. After a general proof of the
 reality of sorcery, the bookisorganizedinthreesectionscorrespondingto
 theelementsconsideredtobenecessaryinthecommissionofsorcery:the
 sorceress herself, the demon, and the permission of God. The argument
 in this book is mostly theoretical discussion based on Thomas Aquinas,
 and it consists almost exclusively of disputed questions characteristic of
 scholastic argumentation (see below).
 Part 2
 Part 2 treats the actual practices of sorceresses and is itself divided into
 two parts, the first dealing with the actions of the sorceresses themselves
 and the second with legitimate methods of counteracting them. There
 is some evidence that the original intention was that the second part
 of this book was to be combined with Pt. 3 as a general treatment of
 how to counteract sorcery by undoing the act in practical terms and
 by exterminating the sorceresses themselves judicially. There are still
Introduction
 11
 a number of disputed questions in this book, but it gives the most
 anecdotal information about supposed contemporary reality.
 Part 3
 Part 3 is a discussion of the judicial method of investigating and convict
ing sorceresses, and is almost wholly based on the Directorium inquisi
torum (Guide Book for Inquisitors) of Nicholas Eymeric. Eymeric dealt
 with the investigation of heretics in general by inquisitors, but Pt. 3 is
 meant to be a guide to secular judges. Given the heavily ecclesiastical
 nature of the procedures in Eymeric (particularly the long list of the final
 sentences set out at the end of the book), one has to wonder how useful
 anysecular judgewouldhavefoundthissection.Thisbookprovidesper
hapstheleastinformationaboutactualcontemporaryprocedurebecause
 of its being such a close adaptation of the source material. In the Nurem
berg Handbook, where Institoris speaks more directly in his own voice
 and is in a better position to shape the material to express his own views,
 he talks at much greater length about the way in which the investigator
 (inquisitor) is able, in fact obligated, to use his faculties of logical reason
ing to divine the truth of an accusation of sorcery via conjecture on the
 basis of the supposed facts of the case. This conception of the investiga
tor’s role is certainly present in the Malleus, but it tends to get obscured
 amidst all the tiresome technical minutiae deriving from Eymeric.
 Separate publication of the bull and approbation
 Nowwecanreturn to the peculiarity of the bull and approbation being
 published separately in the first edition.4 This separate publication ends
 with the words “here follows the table of contents,” which shows that
 the two sections contained in it were to intervene between the Author’s
 Justification and the table of contents, the first two sections of the main
 bodyofthetext in the first edition. Let us start by noting that, according
 to Drach’s business records, the main body was clearly in existence by
 the winter of 1487 (and probably earlier), while the approbation was
 drawn upinmidMayofthatyear. Now,the purpose of the approbation
 was not to secure an attestation of orthodoxy before publication (why
 should an inquisitor consider the orthodoxy of his own book dubious?),
 4 Indeed, these sections were published in a small book by an entirely different (and inferior) press.
 Presumably, Drach (the publisher of the main text) was simply busy with other work when it
 came time to put out this small addition to the main work.
12
 The Hammer of Witches
 but to bolster the validity of its views. The approbation makes it clear
 that the whole text was available for consultation by the members of the
 theological faculty, so presumably the good theologians had been given
 a copy of the printed book (this would have been cheaper and easier
 than providing a manuscript version before publication). But even if
 the approbation was secured after the initial publication, why was the
 bull, which had been issued back in 1484, not published with the main
 text? Perhaps the explanation is simply a desire to make sure that it
 would be read before the approbation, which might otherwise seem
 more significant by virtue of its separate publication.
 Hansenincorporatedtheseparatepublication of theapprobationinto
 his argument for a defective procedure in drawing it up,5 but now it
 can be seen that this odd procedure was dictated by the exigencies of
 giving the text to the theological faculty in the most convenient manner.
 Certainly, the second and third editions, both issued by Drach, give the
 unobjectionableorder(a)author’sjustification,(b)bull,(c)approbation,
 (d) table of contents, (e) main text, and this order is adopted in the
 present translation as most representative of the authorial intention.
 outline of the work
 The Malleus has a very elaborate organization with each book being
 carefully divided into a number of “questions” (Pt. 2 is actually divided
 into two major subsections called “questions,” which are in turn
 divided into “chapters” corresponding to the questions of the other two
 books).Thoughformallycorrect,thismethodoforganizationsomewhat
 obscures the logical progression of the arguments made in the work as
 indicated by numerous introductory passages and cross-references. The
 following outline gives a better sense of the overall organization of the
 material.
 I) Proof of the existence of sorcery (1.1)
 II) The elements involved in the performance of sorcery
 A) Demon
 1) Demons necessarily co-operate with sorceress (1.2)
 2) Demonsbegethumanstoincrease numberofsorceresses (1.3)
 5 Supposedly, the separate publication of the false approbation formed part of a plan to keep it
 out of Cologne, but this is an absurd theory. There is no way that the subsequent circulation
 of the small book could have been controlled (quite apart from the fact that the theory rests on
 inaccurate information about the locations in which the two sections were published). Also, given
 this theory, what sense did it make to incorporate the approbation into the second edition?
Introduction
 13
 3) Only low-ranking demons have sex with humans (1.4)
 4) Sorcery cannot be ascribed to astrological influences or to
 human evil or to the utterance of magic formulas, to the
 exclusion of demonic assistance (1.5)
 B) Sorceress
 1) Why women engage in sorcery more than men do (1.6)
 2) What sorts of sorcery women engage in
 a) Women turn humans’ minds to love or hatred (1.7)
 b) They impede procreation (1.8)
 c) They seemingly remove penises (1.9)
 d) They seemingly turn people into beasts (1.10)
 e) Midwives kill fetuses and newborns (1.11)
 C) God’s permission
 1) Proof that God permits sorcery (1.12)
 2) Incidental discussion of why God allows sin (1.13)
 3) Thesins of sorceresses are worse than those of Satan or Adam
 and than those of regular heretics (1.14)
 4) WhyGodallows the innocent to be harmed by sorcery (1.15)
 5) Sorcery is worse than other sorts of magic (1.16)
 6) Sorcery is a worse sin than the fall of the demons (1.17)
 7) Refutation of seven laymen’s arguments against God allowing
 the existence of sorcery (1.18)
 III) The practice of inflicting and curing forms of sorcery
 A) Certain people are exempted from being harmed by sorcery
 (unnumbered)
 B) Methods of inflicting sorcery
 1) Recruitment and initiation of sorceresses
 a) Methodsofenticementoftheinnocentthroughsorceresses
 (2.1.1)
 b) Avowal and homage to Satan (2.1.2)
 c) How they move from place to place (2.1.3)
 d) How they have sex with demons (2.1.4)
 2) Methods of infliction
 a) The use of sacraments in sorcery (2.1.5)
 b) Impeding procreation (2.1.6)
 c) Removal of penises (2.1.7)
 d) Turning people into beasts (2.1.8)
 e) How demons can exist inside people (2.1.9)
 f) How demons can possess people (2.1.10)
 g) General method of inflicting illness (2.1.11)
14
 The Hammer of Witches
 h) Specific methods of inflicting illness (2.1.12)
 i) How midwives kill babies or offer them to Satan (2.1.13)
 j) How sorceresses cause bad weather (2.1.14)
 k) Harm to domestic animals (2.1.15)
 l–n) Male sorcerers (archers, enchanters, users of grimoires)
 (2.1.16)
 C) Methods of curing sorcery
 1) Demonstration that curing sorcery is permissible
 (unnumbered)
 2) Cures for incubus/succubus demons (2.2.1)
 3) Cures for impeded procreation (2.2.2)
 4) Cures for irregular love/hatred (2.2.3)
 5) Cures for removed penises and for people turned into beasts
 (2.2.4)
 6) Cures for demonic possession (2.2.5)
 7) Cures for illnesses inflicted through sorcery (2.2.6)
 8) Cures for bad weather caused by sorcery (2.2.7)
 9) Cures for those who seek temporal gain (2.2.8)
 IV) Judicial extermination of sorceresses
 A) Thatsorceresses and their accomplices are subject to both eccle
siastical and civil jurisdiction, and that inquisitors do not have
 to involve themselves in such cases (unnumbered)
 B) Initiating proceedings
 1) How to begin proceedings (3.1)
 2) Number of witnesses (3.2)
 3) How to examine the witnesses (3.3)
 4) Who is allowed to give testimony (3.4)
 5) Exclusion of mortal enemies (3.5)
 C) Investigation
 1) Continuation of proceedings (3.6)
 a) Non-legalistic nature of the proceedings
 b) List of questions (Step 1)
 i) General
 ii) Specific
 2) Number of witnesses (3.7/Step 2)
 3) When the suspect is to be considered guilty (3.7/Step 3)
 4) Detention and arrest of suspects (3.8)
 5) How to conceal names of the witnesses from the accused
 (3.9/Step 4)
 6) Assigning a suitable advocate to the accused (3.10/Step 5)
Introduction
 15
 7) The advocate is not allowed to cite any defense apart from
 enmity on the part of the witnesses (3.11/Step 6)
 8) Investigating such charges of enmity (3.12/Step 7)
 [Omittedissueofdemandbytheaccusedthatthejudgerecuse
 himself (would have been 3.13/Step 8)]
 9) Considerations of the feasibility of extracting a confession
 through torture (3.14/Step 9)
 10) Sentencing the accused to questioning under torture and
 initiating it (3.15/Step 10)
 11) Precautions against the sorcery of silence (3.15/Step 11)
 12) Ruses to facilitate confession (3.16/Step 12)
 V) Twenty methods of passing sentence
 1) (1) Rejection of judgment by ordeal (3.17)
 2) (2) Generalities about how to pass sentence (3.18)
 3) (3) The kinds of suspicion that result in passing of sentence
 (3.19)
 4) Methods of passing sentence if the accused is found:
 a) (4) to be innocent (3.20/Method 1)
 b) (5) to have a bad reputation (3.21/Method 2)
 c) (6) to be subject to questioning under torture (3.22/
 Method 3)
 d) (7) to be lightly suspected of heresy (3.23/Method 4)
 e) (8) to be vehemently suspected of heresy (3.24/Method 5)
 f) (9) to be violently suspected of heresy (3.25/Method 6)
 g) (10) to have a reputation for heresy and to be generally
 suspected of it (3.26/Method 7)
 h) (11) to have confessed to heresy and to be penitent but not
 relapsed (3.27/Method 8)
 i) (12) to have confessed to heresy and to be penitent and
 relapsed (3.28/Method 9)
 j) (13) to have confessed to heresy and to be impenitent but
 not relapsed (3.29/Method 10)
 k) (14) to have confessed to heresy and to be impenitent and
 relapsed (3.30/Method 11)
 l) (15) not to have confessed but to be legally convicted
 (3.31/Method 12)
 m) (16) to have confessed to heresy but to be a fugitive
 (3.32/Method 13)
 n) (17) to have been denounced by a convicted sorceress and
 not to have confessed (3.33/Method 14)
16
 The Hammer of Witches
 o) (18-20) not to have inflicted but to have broken sor
cery unlawfully; to have inflicted death through affecting
 weapons with sorcery; to have offered babies to Satan as
 a midwife; also how to deal with those who obstruct the
 inquisition (3.34/Method 15)
 5) How to deal with legal appeals (3.36)
 sources
 The Malleus contains citations by name of seventy-eight authors (some
times cited for multiple works) or anonymous works. This gives a
 sense that the work rests on a wide-ranging reading of orthodox
 authorities. After all, the Justification claims that the content of the work
 is largely borrowed from earlier writers. As it turns out, this plethora of
 citations gives an entirely misleading sense of the sources used in the
 composition of the work.
 Despite the flurry of names that are cited through the work, there
 are basically three main authors whose works form the basis of the
 vast majority of the text. The distribution of these three sources cor
responds roughly to the three main divisions of the work. Pt. 1 is a
 demonstration of the reality of sorcery, and as this is basically a philo
sophical, metaphysical and theological issue, it is not surprising that
 the main source here is Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas wrote his mon
umental corpus of works on theology-cum-philosophy in the thir
teenth century, and later he became the most respected representa
tive of one of the two schools of late-medieval scholasticism, namely
 realism, which was associated with the Dominicans (Aquinas himself
 was a Dominican). Aquinas was a very widely read man, and the large
 majority of the many citations in the Malleus come from him. These
 range from philosophers such as the ancient Greek Aristotle and the
 medieval Jew Maimonides through the gamut of Church Fathers from
 Jerome and Augustine into figures of the middle ages. These are purely
 tralaticious citations. That is, they are merely carried over from the
 earlier text, and this procedure means, of course, that it is unlikely
 that Sprenger or Institoris ever read a word of any of those authors
 directly.
 In Pt. 2, which discusses the deeds of sorceresses, Aquinas con
tinues as the sources for theoretical issues, but the main source is
 JohannesNider.HewasaprominentDominicanreformerfromtheearly
Introduction
 17
 f
 ifteenth century, and two works of his are used. The main source is the
 Formicarius or Ant Hill, which was a work advocating a moral and spir
itual reformation in Christendom. Book Five of this work deals with
 sorcery, and this is one of the four works (and the only one to appear
 in print) prior to the Malleus that describes the satanic interpretation of
 sorcery (see below). Nider also treated some of the same topics in his
 Praeceptorium, a textbook on divine law, which is also quoted. While
 a lot of the material from Nider discusses his own personal knowl
edge of sorcery, he also has argumentation, which sometimes includes
 Aquinas. Thus, in such sections, where both the ultimate and the imme
diate source may not be indicated as such, we can have a passage that
 gives a philosophical argument that goes back to Aquinas but is copied
 out of Nider and cites earlier authorities (including Aquinas) in the
 expected way.
 Part 3 is based on yet another Dominican, the Spanish inquisitor
 Nicholas Eymeric, who lived in the middle of the fourteenth century
 and wrote a handbook, the Directorium inquisitorum, that was meant to
 show other inquisitors how to track down and deal with heretics. The
 Directorium provides the great majority of the content of Pt. 3 (with
 appropriate adaptation to show how to deal specifically with the “heresy
 of sorceresses”). Eymeric is never mentioned by name, and in only one
 instance does the title of the Directorium appear in thetext. Eymericcites
 large amounts of canon law, and mentions numerous canon lawyers by
 name. Once more it is very unlikely that Institoris directly saw any of
 this material himself.
 Theoneothersubstantial source is another Dominican, Antoninus of
 Florence, who wrote anencyclopedic handbookonecclesiastical matters
 in theearly fourteenthcentury.Heisresponsibleforthelargesection(Pt.
 1,Q.6) explaining the character flaws of women that is so unappealing
 to modern tastes.
 A list of all the sources cited in the Malleus is given below in section
 b of the “Notes on the translation.”
 disputed questions
 Nowthat the sources have been discussed, this is a good place to look at
 a major effect of one source on the mode of argumentation, namely the
 scholastic methodology of Thomas Aquinas. The “disputed question”
 (quaestio disputata) was a standard mode of discourse in the scholastic
18
 The Hammer of Witches
 tradition and had its origins in actual debates that took place under the
 presidency of a senior scholar. After an oral debate on a specific topic, the
 presiding scholar would formally summarize the debate. This mode of
 argumentation was a very convenient way to lay out an issue, and hence
 came to be used without reference to any actual oral debate as a formal
 way to present an issue in a written work. In the Malleus, the purely
 conventional nature of these disputed questions can be seen in the fact
 that the so-called question is sometimes phrased not as a question but
 as a statement. The Malleus uses the form of the disputed question that
 appears in the works of Aquinas. Failure to understand the conventions
 of the disputed question can make the method of argumentation hard
 to follow.
 The disputed question normally begins with an indirect question,
 which describes the issue at hand, and this is called the “title” of the
 question. This title gives the correct answer to the question, which starts
 by giving the incorrect negative answer that the author will eventually
 refute and then presents one after the other various arguments in favor
 of this false initial answer. Each argument is at most a few sentences
 long and is generally based on or corroborated with a quotation from
 someauthority, though sometimes it appeals to some principle of reason
 or to an observation from the natural world. The arguments after the
 f
 irst one typically begin with the words “also” or “besides which.” After
 the arguments in favor of the false answer comes contradictory evidence
 in the form of a quotation or quotations from relevant authorities who
 indicate that the initial answer to the question was not correct. This
 section begins with the phrase “but to the contrary.” After the various
 arguments pro and con have been set out in this way, the presiding
 scholar (or author) gives his “determination” of the issue. Here he gives
 a discussion of some length explaining his reasoning in rejecting the false
 answer to the question and then answering the question affirmatively.
 This section is called the “body” of the question, and is introduced
 with the word“response” or astatement beginning “the response is given
 that . . . ” After this, the question is concluded with a direct refutation
 of the individual arguments made in favor of the false conclusion at the
 beginningofthequestion,andtheserefutationsaretermedthe“solutions
 of the arguments.”
 In the translation, the various sections of each disputed question
 are marked out with the symbols used in modern editions of Thomas
 Aquinas (these symbols are explained below in section d of the “Notes
 on the translation”).
Introduction
 19
 intellectual context
 Satanism
 The great persecutions of sorcery that lasted from the fifteenth until the
 early seventeenth centuries were based upon a newnotionofsorcerythat
 can be termed “satanism” (or “diabolism”). This view saw the supposed
 “witch” as participating in a malevolent society presided over by Satan
 himself and dedicated to the infliction of malevolent acts of sorcery
 (maleficia) on others. This new conception is known in modern schol
arship as the “elaborated concept of witchcraft,” which is characterized
 by six basic beliefs about the activities of those considered guilty of this
 form of sorcery:
 (1) A pact entered into with the Devil (and concomitant apostasy from
 Christianity),
 (2) Sexual relations with the Devil,
 (3) Aerial flight for the purpose of attending:
 (4) An assembly presided over by Satan himself (at which initiates
 entered into the pact, and incest and promiscuous sex were engaged
 in by the attendees),
 (5) The practice of maleficent magic,
 (6) The slaughter of babies.
 Thegeneralareaandtimeinwhichthisconceptaroseareclearenough,
 but the process by which this new conception developed from earlier
 interpretations of sorcery and magic is still obscure. The new conception
 is firstattestedinfourworkswritteninLatinandGermanwithinadecade
 or so of the 1430s. There is, however, some indication that already in
 the late fourteenth century certain supposed activities associated with
 sorcery were being conceived of in terms of the elaborated theory.
 The new conception of sorcery as a form of direct worship of Satan
 that involves the infliction of harm though sorcery can be derived from
 the revolting lies told about the heretical sect known as the Waldensians
 by their orthodox foes.6 The logical development seems to have been
 6 Theorigins of the Waldensians can be traced to a spiritual movement that was started in the late
 twelfth century by Peter Waldo, a wealthy merchant in the French city of Lyon. Waldo gave away
 his possessions and began to preach without ecclesiastical authorization. He was condemned
 for this, but nonetheless gathered a number of adherents. At first, the dispute between them
 and the established Church concerned authority rather than doctrine, but the rejection of the
 movement by the Church as heresy led to a radicalization of its adherents, who for their part
 refused to recognize the universal pretensions of the established Church. At the same time, the
 Waldensians were grossly misrepresented by their orthodox opponents as practicing heinous
 crimes in their rites, and they were bitterly persecuted by Catholic officialdom. The Waldensians
20
 The Hammer of Witches
 as follows. First, the heretical Waldensians were conceived of as tools of
 Satan, and thus the traditional calumnies about heretics, including the
 murder of babies and the practice of maleficent sorcery, were ascribed to
 the Waldensians. Eventually, the Waldensians became so associated with
 sorcery that deformed versions of their name could become terms for
 “witch” in Romance languages. In the next step, the sect that practices
 witchcraft was no longer associated specifically with the Waldensians.
 Instead, the notion developed that there was a deviant group of renegade
 Christians who renounced Christianity in favor of the worship of Satan,
 who were led by him, and who practiced the most extreme form of
 maleficent sorcery for its own sake. The texts cited above present the
 earliest attestation of this new conception.
 Onemightaskwhetheritisnotpossiblethat there were in fact satanic
 sects that subjectively believed that they were carrying out the will of
 Satan (whatever the metaphysical truth of the matter). To this the simple
 answer is no, on the basis of the following considerations.
 (1) There is absolutely no independent corroboration of any such
 activity on the part of anyone. The sole evidence for this activity comes
 from the theoretical discussions and judicial investigations conducted
 by men who believed in the existence of a form of maleficent sorcery.
 (2) All confessions to such activity are of no evidentiary value as they
 were extracted through the use or the threat of (often extreme) torture.
 (3) The stories told about the practitioners of the elaborated concept
 of witchcraft were also told about any number of previous heretics in the
 past, and there is no reason to believe that anyone actually engaged in
 these activities. Rather, the self-image of the official forms of Christianity
 necessitated the corollary notion that any deviation from orthodoxy
 could only be based on adherence to Satan, and thus it was natural to
 imagine that the most unspeakable crimes were being carried out by
 perceived heretics.
 (4) The demonological works make much of the supposed fact that
 the confessions of the accused are concordant in the details given about
 the practices of maleficent sorcery, but it should be emphasized that
 wereforcedtopractice their religion in secret, and set up their own ecclesiastical organization. The
 Catholic persecution was largely successful, though a small group of Waldensians (later associated
 with Protestantism) survived in the Piedmont region of northern Italy. It was here and in the
 neighboring area of France (the Dauphin´ e) that the theory of sorcery first took hold on the model
 of Catholic beliefs about the Waldensians as members of a secret heretical cult that practiced
 magic. For the Waldensians in general, see Gabriel Audisio, The Waldensian Dissent: Persecution
 and Survival, c. 1170–c. 1570, trans. C. Davison (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999),
 and for the belief in particular that they were heretical practitioners of magic, see pp. 72–78.
Introduction
 21
 there is in fact a great deal of variation in the specifics. While the general
 outline of the practices of the “sect of sorceresses” was known in various
 locations, the details were made up according to the notions held by
 the local investigators. That is, there was no single “elaborated theory,”
 but a number of local variations that reflect the overall notion. Unless
 there were a number of such sects that operated by different (physically
 impossible) methods,thelogicalconclusionisthattheself-contradictory
 nature of the various versions of the elaborated theory derives from the
 fact that there was in fact no such sect at all, and that the variations
 reflect the fundamental disconnect between the theory and reality.
 Elaborated theory of sorcery as described in the Malleus
 TheMalleus should be allowed to speak for itself in terms of the detailed
 version of the elaborated concept of witchcraft that is advocated in it,
 but a short summary of the views of Henricus Institoris on the subject
 is worthwhile.
 First, a matter of terminology. In the German text of the Nurem
berg Handbook, Institoris uniformly uses the term Unhold for a “witch”
 belonging to the “Heresy of Sorceresses.”7 This term is in turn always
 rendered in the Latin (of both the Malleus and the Nuremberg Hand
book)asmalefica. This terminology is significant in that this usage shows
 an invariable preference over the many synonyms for “witch” in both
 German (Zauberin and Giftmischerin in addition to Hexe) and Latin
 (lamia, striga, venefica). As noted repeatedly in the Malleus (in the form
 of the etymology of the word given by Isidore of Seville), the literal
 meaning of maleficus is “evil-doer,” and it is the inherent necessity to
 inflict evil through sorcery that distinguishes adherents of the sect from
 meredabblersinmagic.The“HeresyofSorceresses”(heresismaleficarum)
 appears several times in the German in the literal translation ketzerei der
 unholden.
 The characteristics of the elaborated concept of witchcraft all appear
 in the Malleus, but the Nuremberg Handbook gives a simpler definition:
 “this depravity of sorceresses consists of two elements: the heresy and
 apostasy from the Faith and the temporal loss that she inflicts.” The
 reference to heresy signifies adherence to the tenets of the sect as a
 result of the homage that they pay to Satan, while apostasy signifies the
 rejection of the Christian faith that the sorceress adopted at baptism.
 7 In the cover letter to the Handbook, Institoris gives as a variant the term Hexe, which is the usual
 term that survives in modern German.
22
 The Hammer of Witches
 The second element consists of the harm that is obligatorily inflicted
 by the sorceresses as a result of their adherence to the sect. Thus, the
 other elements of the modern definition of the elaborated concept of
 witchcraft are simply subsumed into this twofold scheme. The pact with
 Satan is simply an element of giving allegiance to him, and the other
 elements (flying to attend meetings with Satan and the specific forms of
 sorcery) are aspects of belonging to the sect.
 Sorcery is viewedaspartofaconstantwarthatisbeingwagedbetween
 God and his fallen angel Satan.8 This bipolar struggle of good and evil
 is so pervasive in the Malleus that one could conceive of it as reflect
ing a form of manichaeism, that is, the view that the cosmos is divided
 between the opposing and equal forces of good and evil. Yet, such a view
 is fundamentally incompatible with the Christian view of the absolute
 omnipotence of God, and the Malleus reconciles the apparent incom
patibility by emphasizing repeatedly that the practices of sorcery are
 themselves useless and seem to work only because God allows Satan to
 carry out the effects that are ostensibly “caused” by those practices. Not
 only is sorcery to be understood within the context of the titanic struggle
 between God and his arch-enemy, but the offense that God is said to
 suffer as a result of such practices is at once a prime motive in Satan’s
 promotion of them and a major argument in the effort to persuade the
 secular authorities to take all necessary (and drastic) steps to uncover and
 exterminate the Heresy of Sorceresses. In particular, sorcery was thought
 to play a special role in Satan’s war against God during the End Days.
 The Book of Revelation (Apocalypse) was included in the canon of
 orthodox books of the New Testament because of the erroneous belief
 that its author was the same as that of the Gospel of John. In any event,
 the author of Apocalypse was steeped in the tradition of the prophetical
 books of the Old Testament like Ezekiel, Isaiah and Daniel, and thus
 Apocalypse follows them in giving a rather fanciful vision (with much
 bizarre imagery and numerology) of the End Days. First, Satan will
 triumph (as the Antichrist in later medieval interpretation), but after
 he is vanquished by Christ, there will be a thousand-year period of
 direct rule by the latter (the Millennium). Next, Satan will be released
 from his prison to wage a final, futile battle against God, at the end of
 which the world will end, Satan being cast into eternal torment and the
 Last Judgment taking place. The attempt to establish the thousand-year
 8 Satanwasthoughttohaveanarmyofsubordinatedemons(lesserfallenangels),andthesorceresses
 are often conceived of as acting in collaboration with one of these demons rather than with Satan
 himself.
Introduction
 23
 kingdom of God on earth is known as millenarianism, but what we are
 dealing with here is the somewhat toned down version of the End Days
 that prevailed in more or less official medieval dogma. For the sake of
 convenience I call this apocalypticism, and the understanding of sorcery
 in the Malleus is firmly set within the context of this apocalypticism.
 This context is referred to from the very start of the work in the
 Author’s Justification, whichnotesthatwhileSatanhasalwaysattempted
 to underminethechurchofJesuswithheresy, he is redoubling his efforts
 at the present, since he knows that he has little time left, as the world is
 nowdeclining towards its end and human evil is increasing. The notion
 that Satan angrily realizes the shortness of his remaining time comes
 from Apocalypse 12:12, and the reference in the text to the cooling of
 charity is derived from Matthew 24:2. Thus, the introduction suggests
 that the plague of sorceresses is part of Satan’s efforts in the End Days,
 and this connection is spelled out in later passages.
 The crimes of “present-day” sorceresses is said to surpass all those of
 the past (71C–D). The dating of this present day seems to be indicated
 in a passage in which the sexual depravity of sorceresses is discussed.
 In response to the disbelief of certain contemporaries that present-day
 sorceresses doengageintheactsallegedagainstthem,itisasserted(108A
B) that, whatever may be the case of those who existed before 1400,
 experience shows that since that date sorceresses have in fact engaged in
 sexual misconduct with demons. Thereasongivenforuncertainty in the
 earlier period is that the literary record does not attest similar behavior
 (though the existence of demons then is undeniable), but it is noted
 that, whereas the sorceresses at that time apparently had to be forced to
 engage in such acts, in the present day they do so willingly. Seemingly,
 Institoris was aware of a novelty in the sorts of activity that he classified
 as the Heresy of Sorceresses, and dated the start of this development
 to the beginning of the fifteenth century. Thus, his own century was
 the start of the final assault of the Antichrist predicted in the Book of
 Apocalypse, and the rise of the new heresy and the unspeakable horrors
 supposedly perpetrated by its adherents was the main weapon in the
 hands of the Antichrist.
 This sense of the approaching apocalypse brought in its wake a novel
 interpretation of the common idea that sorceresses murder children. A
 medievalnotionheldthat,atthetimeofSatan’sfallfromgrace,onetenth
 of the“good”angelsfellwithhim,becomingdemons(“badangels”),and
 the world will be “consummated”whenthenumberoftheelectwhorise
 to heaven equals that of the angels who remained there (see Caesarius
24
 The Hammer of Witches
 of Heisterbach, Dialogue of Miracles 5.8). The Malleus directly notes this
 conception in terms of the horrific notion that midwives intentionally
 (and even unwillingly) murder newborns at the insistence of demons.
 The reason for this is that the Devil knows that unbaptized children are
 not allowed into the kingdom of heaven and thus the consummation of
 the worldandthedayofjudgmentthatwillseetheDevilcastintoeternal
 perdition will be put off (138C). Thus, the idea that the contemporary
 world is destined to see the terrible tribulations predicted by the Book of
 Apocalypseexplainsnotonlywhysorceryisapparentlygettingworsebut
 also the specific rationale for some of the most heinous crimes attributed
 to it.
 Role of omnipotent God in sorcery
 Finally, let us look at the role of God in the practice of sorcery. The
 Malleus deals repeatedly with the question of how to reconcile the exis
tence of a sect dedicated exclusively to the commission of the most
 extreme evil with the presupposition of an omnipotent and wholly good
 God. Not surprisingly, the answer is given in terms of the traditional
 explanation that God’s grant of free will to mankind makes it perfectly
 just (and necessary) for him to tolerate evil deeds (whose perpetrators
 will of course then be suitably punished after death). The argument is
 madeseveral times that Satan has no power except to the extent that this
 is granted to him by God, and that the magical procedures of the sorcer
esses themselves had no inherent efficacy and “work” simply because of
 Satan’s execution of the deeds that the sorceresses ostensibly bring about
 through their rites and procedures. This conception of how the magic
 involved in sorcery operates is necessitated by the premise that God is
 omnipotent and that nothing can be done without his permission, but
 this direct involvement of God in the granting or withholding of per
mission with reference to specific acts of sorcery means that something
 more than a broad granting of free will is needed to explain how such
 evil can exist in a world governed by this omnipotent and good God.
 It is occasionally asserted that God’s purposes are inscrutable, which
 serves to defer judgment on the question of why he allows evil with the
 assumption that there must be some greater good at issue which is sim
ply unknown to the human observer (126A, D). Much more frequent,
 however, is the idea that the existence of sorcery is tolerated by God as
 a form of retribution on the human race as a whole for previous acts
 of sorcery. Indeed, Satan himself is aware of this reaction on the part
Introduction
 25
 of God and therefore seeks both to instigate the commission of such
 acts and to bring about a human failure to punish them (on account of
 the false notion that sorcery does not actually exist), because he knows
 that this will enrage God, who will then give continued permission for
 further, more heinous crimes. In effect, the situation is a downward spi
ral of human crimes, the penalty for which is the commission of even
 worse crimes. This situation would seem to have no end but the human
 race being overwhelmed under this mounting wave of crime, and the
 conception fits in with the idea that the apocalyptic end of the world is
 near and that the perceived recent upsurge in sorcery plays a central role
 in the downfall of humanity.
 The modern view of the Christian God tends to emphasize his role
 as a figure of compassion and love. This is certainly not the main char
acteristic of the God of the Malleus, who is portrayed as a stark and
 inflexible figure, who exacts the severest penalties for acts that offend
 him. He demands absolute loyalty from those dedicated to his worship
 (i.e., baptized Christians) and expects to take precedence over anything
 and anyone else in their affections. Disloyalty to God is equated with
 treason against a secular prince, and this act deserves to be punished
 with the same savage penalty on earth that the Roman emperors decreed
 against traitors in the Code of Justinian. This vengeful God not only
 visits punishment on the descendants of malefactors removed from the
 crime by three or four generations, but also feels so affronted by the
 insult made against him through the commission of the crimes asso
ciated with satanism that he allows the innocent to be harmed (Pt. 1,
 Q.15 is devoted exclusively to proving the point). Given this conception
 of the dire results to be expected from the failure to suppress sorcery,
 it is not surprising that Institoris felt such outrage on account of his
 perception that there were both laymen and priests who endeavored to
 underminetheefforts toexterminate thesorceresses through their denial
 of the reality of the phenomenon.
 role of women in sorcery
 The Malleus has been characterized as a thoroughly misogynistic work,
 and (to borrow a mode of argument from scholasticism) this is true or
 not depending on what one means by misogyny. In the proper meaning
 of the term, it signifies a self-conscious literary attack on the female
 gender as a whole. This genre of literature is exemplified in the Greek
 poet Semonides’ attack on women or the Sixth Satire of the Roman poet
26
 The Hammer of Witches
 Juvenal. By this standard, the Malleus is not misogynistic in that even the
 main passage discussing what is taken to be the flawed nature of females
 is prefaced with an overt statement that the negative characterization of
 women as a group does not apply to all of them (42B), and the work
 contains references to pious womenwhoresisttheallurements of sorcery
 or fall victim to it.
 Nonetheless, even if the Malleus is not misogynistic in a narrow sense,
 the work is clearly permeated with a hostile and negative view of women
 as a whole. Given the often negative characterization of women in both
 the Old and the New Testaments, it is not surprising that Christian
 thought of antiquity and the medieval period adopted a similar attitude.
 What Sprenger’s thoughts along these lines may have been is unknown,
 but Institoris’s statements in other works make it clear that the anti
female premises of the Malleus are fully attributable to him. While he no
 doubthadnoqualmsaboutadheringtothispointofview,thesectionsof
 the Malleus that most directly cover the topic are derived from previous
 authors. The section on why women practice sorcery more frequently
 than men (Pt. 1,Q.6) is based on several passages. Exactly the same
 topic is treated in Nider’s Praeceptorium, and this material is expanded
 through the addition of another passage from Nider’s Formicarius (Ant
 Hill) at the beginning and a heavily reworked section of the Summa of
 Antoninus of Florence that treats the mental and moral inferiority of
 women.9 Thus,inInstitoris’s own mind there could have been no doubt
 as to the orthodoxy of the very negative view of women that underlies
 his conception of sorcery.
 It mightbeobjectedthatmendogetincludedintheHeresyofSorcer
esses, particularly in the form of men who use incantations to improve
 their archery (these are discussed in the last few questions of Pt. 1). In
 fact, it would appear that these men are mentioned more as a logical
 reflexofthefactthatsorceryisconceivedofintermsofheresyratherthan
 because such men form any integral part of the Heresy of Sorceresses as
 understood in the work. At any rate, these archers are not mentioned
 at all in the later Nuremberg Handbook. As for the Malleus itself, what
 Institoris specifically has in mind is the sort of sorcery that he believed
 to be practiced among uneducated peasant women, which is overtly
 distinguished (91C) from the educated magic practiced by men (mainly
 clerics). Another element in the portrayal of sorcery that distinguishes
 9 Infairness to Institoris, it should be pointed out that the ridiculous etymology of the word femina
 (Latin for “woman”) from the words fides and minus (“faith” and “less”), for which the Malleus is
 often derided, is borrowed verbatim from Antoninus.
Introduction
 27
 the Malleus from the Nuremberg Handbook is the strong association of
 female sorcery with love affairs that have turned out badly for young
 women who have used their sexual wiles to entice a man into marriage
 but were ultimately rejected for a more suitable spouse. This focus in the
 Malleus may reflect Institoris’s recent experiences in Innsbruck, where
 amatorymagicseemstohaveplayedamajorroleinthesupposedsorcery
 that he investigated.
 historical background
 Nowwecanturntothehistoricalrealitiesthatliebehindthetext,andwe
 will start with the legal framework. This will be discussed first in terms of
 the ecclesiastical institution for dealing with sorcery, and contemporary
 judicial methods.
 Inquisition
 Institoris and Sprenger were both inquisitors, and a large number of
 the anecdotes about prosecuting sorcery involve the activities of inquisi
tors. The words “inquisition” and “inquisitor” are derived from Latin
 terms meaning “investigation” (cf. the alternative English derivation
 “inquest”) and “investigator.” The institution of the inquisition arose
 in the early thirteenth century in connection with efforts to stamp out
 the so-called “Albigensian heresy” (whose adherents are also known as
 Cathars) in southern France.10 There wasdissatisfaction with the unwill
ingness or inability of local bishops to stamp out heretical activities in
 their dioceses, and the practice arose of appointing mendicant friars
 (especially Dominicans but also Franciscans) to hunt out heretics. At
 f
 irst such appointments were made on an adhocbasis, but soon the pro
cedure became institutionalized. Appointments could be made either by
 provincials (regional administrators of the mendicant orders) or directly
 by the pope, and in either case the inquisitor would act with dele
gated papal authority. Both Institoris and Sprenger were inquisitors by
 papal appointment (as made clear in the bull summis desiderantes). The
 inquisitor was empoweredtoconductafullinvestgiation onhisownand
 to seek the assistance of the secular authorities (“secular arm”) for this
 10 The regular medieval inquisition is not to be confused with the much more famous Spanish
 inquisition, which was set up in 1478 by the Spanish crown and operated under the state control,
 or the Roman inquisition, which was set up by the papacy in the sixteenth century to stamp
 out any Protestant tendencies in Italy.
28
 The Hammer of Witches
 purpose. If the suspected heretic was deemed unrepentant or convicted
 of being a relapsed heretic (that is, someone who returned to the heresy
 after having previously been found out in it and having abjured or pub
licly renounced it), the inquisitor could turn over (“relax”) the heretic
 to the secular arm. The inquisitor would hypocritically state in the sen
tence that he asked the secular arm not to execute the heretic, but it was
 understood by everyone that the heretic was to be executed (normally
 by being burned alive) in accordance with secular laws against heresy.
 Though the inquisitors had full authority to deal with an accusation
 as they saw fit, and could keep someone imprisoned for years if they
 suspected that a person who refused to confess was guilty, they were also
 entitled to make use of questioning under torture. This practice was a
 standard procedure in contemporary legal procedure, so it is worthwhile
 to consider it in some detail.
 Torture in the “inquisitorial” method of investigation
 The use of torture arose in conjunction with the revival of Roman law
 that started in the eleventh century in Italy and gradually spread to
 the north. In the autocratic administrative structure of the later Roman
 Empire, the governor conducted criminal investigations and trials him
self, and was authorized to use torture under certain circumstances as
 an investigative tool. This system was laid out in the criminal proce
dure described in the law code of Justinian that formed part of the
 Roman legal texts that were taught in the Italian universities, and as
 the elaborate procedures of Roman law began in continental Europe to
 drive out earlier medieval jurisprudence, which lacked any comparable
 theoretical texts, the so-called “inquisitorial” procedure took root. (Here
 “inquisitorial” means simply that the magistrate in charge conducts the
 investigation and trial himself, and the term applies to the practices of
 both secular courts conducted along such lines and those of inquisitors.)
 The Roman jurists were fully aware that questioning under torture
 could well lead to false answers (the innocent might admit to something
 they had not done as a result of the pain, while guilty people with
 strong constitutions could endure the pain without confessing), and the
 medievaljurists cameupwithcomplicatedprocedurestoovercomethese
 difficulties. Basically, torturewasprohibitedunlesstherewasareasonably
 strong prima facie case against the suspect, and it could be applied only
 twice. If the suspect survived two sessions without confessing, he or she
 had to be absolved. In addition, the suspect was supposed to give factual
Introduction
 29
 details that only the criminal could have known. In practice, however,
 the supposed procedural protections were useless if the magistrate was
 convinced of the suspect’s guilt. The traditional method of examination
 (knownasthe“strappado”)wastotiethesuspect’shandsbehindhisback,
 thenhaulhimoffthegroundwithapulleyattachedtohishands;thishad
 the effect of putting all the weight of the body on the shoulders, which
 would eventually become disjointed (an effect that could be hastened
 by either attaching weights to the feet or letting the suspect drop and
 then precipitously halting the fall before he hit the ground). This simple
 but brutal method could be effective enough in extracting a confession
 from anyone, but in the mania to extract confessions during the major
 periodsofwitchhunting,theaccusationofsorcerywastreatedasacrimen
 exceptum, that is, a charge exempted from the usual legal precautions,
 and extreme measures were taken to ensure that the suspects admitted
 the “truth.”
 But these pitfalls were not what concerned Institoris. Quite the con
trary. He was concerned that the use of torture in criminal investigation
 would lead to the release of genuine sorceresses. In the first place, it was
 thought that the sorceresses were able to make themselves immune to
 pain through the so-called “sorcery of silence” (see Pt. 3,Q.15), and thus
 wouldescape the torture without confessing. The reliance on Eymeric as
 the mainsourceinPt.3somewhatobscuresthepoint,buttheNuremberg
 Handbook makes it clear that Institoris was very impatient with secular
 courts that absolved those of whose guilt he was certain because of what
 heviewedasameretechnicality(theabilitytoenduretwosessionsoftor
ture without confessing), particularly as he thought that the very fact of
 their practicing sorcery allowed them to thwart the procedure. Instead,
 he advocated the use of conjecture to divine who is guilty, and argued
 at some length in the Nuremberg Handbook that it is better to convict
 on the basis of conjecture than on the basis of a confession extracted
 through torture.
 Theuseofconjecturetodetermineguiltisalsorootedintheprocedure
 outlined by Eymeric. With regular heretics, their crime had to do with
 the beliefs hidden in their mind, which they would try to conceal with
 evasions and misrepresentations, and the inquisitor had to outsmart
 them by formulating questions that would trap them into revealing the
 truth of the heresy that was concealed in their heads. With sorceresses,
 the act that caused the harm was physically removed from the effect
 (and, indeed, according to the theory had no direct physical connection
 with the harm, which was simply inflicted by a demon to make it seem
30
 The Hammer of Witches
 as if sorcery were actually effective). Thus, Institoris was applying to a
 new, but in some ways comparable, situation the method of judgment
 through conjecture that Eymeric advocated.11
 Contemporary magical practices
 Now it is time to turn to the question of the realities of practicing
 witchcraft that Institoris confronted in his inquisitorial activities. First,
 we have to be specific about the concept that is understood by the
 terms “witchcraft” and “magic.” For present purposes, we will take it to
 mean the manipulation of the physical world through the use of special
 words and procedures. It could easily be argued that the practices of the
 medieval Church would fall under this definition, but since most con
temporaries would have excluded such practices from the category, we
 will also ignore these here, and consider as “magical” only such practices
 as would not have been considered legitimate rites of the Church.
 In considering pre-modern beliefs about manipulation of the physical
 world, we have to try and “think away” the category of “science” that
 comes so naturally to our minds. Today, we think of ourselves as having
 a clear and substantive understanding of the principles that underlie the
 behavior of matter around us and of the objects (living and inanimate)
 that are made of matter. In the medieval period, while there was some
 understanding of such principles among the educated, even for them
 much of the operations of the world was mysterious, and this would
 have been all the more true of the general populace. The belief that
 the use of mysterious words and procedures could cause real effects in
 the physical world dates back to well before Classical antiquity, and
 in the medieval period often involved formulas, items and procedures
 “borrowed” from Christian rites. At best, such practices were considered
 superstitious by the ecclesiastical authorities, and to a greater or lesser
 degree they could be thought to involve demonic invocation (implicit
 or tacit).
 A major distinction of magical practices in the medieval period con
cerns a division on the basis of the status of the practitioners. There was a
 sort of “high” magic that involved the educated, which in medieval real
ity tended to mean renegade priests. This magic was practiced with
 11 The necessity of “flushing out” uncooperative heretics also explains the use of lies and deceit to
 trick them. This distasteful procedure is clearly present in Eymeric and adopted without qualm
 by Institoris. Clearly, the need to defend the true faith legitimized any means to unmask the
 enemies of orthodoxy (who were, after all, the tools of Satan).
Introduction
 31
 grimoires or books of learned enchantments. The Malleus indicates
 overtly (91C) that it does not deal with this sort of magic. Instead, it
 treats the variety of magic practiced by illiterate, mostly female members
 of the lower orders of society. To some extent this refers to the peasantry,
 as is indicated by the many incidents involving farm activities in Pt. 2.
 Ontheotherhand,theamatorysorceryinvolvingimpotenceandrelated
 phenomena that figures prominently in the Malleus is often an aspect of
 urban life.
 Now, we have to distinguish between the objective and subjective
 interpretation of the situation. Many people today (though by no means
 all) would reject the reality of producing physical effects in the material
 worldthroughsorcery.Butthequestionofwhetherpeoplecouldactually
 achieve anything through magic is entirely different from the question
 of whether they thought they could. There can be no doubt that there
 were people at the time of the Malleus who engaged in magical practices.
 For our purposes, the issue is the extent to which the Malleus gives an
 accurate picture of contemporary practices.
 On the basis of modern research on sorcery, we can be sure that the
 association of magical practices with satanism, that is, a heretical cult
 under the direct supervision of the Devil himself, is false. The study of
 actual interrogations shows that the dealings with the Devil that suspects
 were eventually compelled to admit to are actually foisted onto them by
 the investigators. That is, there is no external evidence to indicate that,
 even when people were involved in magical practices, they conceived of
 themselves as acting in accordance with the conception of sorcery laid
 out intheMalleus. Rather, the sorts of views propagated bytracts like the
 Malleus were imposed on the traditional nonsystematic magical beliefs
 of popular culture. Basically, the peasants may well have thought that,
 with the right procedures, one could steal the milk from the neighbor’s
 cow or make someone impotent or give him the evil eye. What did not
 exist, either objectively or subjectively, was a heretical cult of evildoers
 who inflicted pointless harm at the instigation of Satan.
 Nowthat we have discussed the reality of magical practices, it is time
 to turn to the dark interpretation placed on such practices by the theory
 advocated in the Malleus.
 overall assessment of the malleus
 The Malleus is a work that rouses strong, often emotional reactions,
 and these may take a multiplicity of forms. Since at least the nineteenth
32
 The Hammer of Witches
 century, it has beenviewedbymanyasanexampleofmedievalignorance
 and superstition, being associated with the later witch hunting of the
 sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries that seemed to have been insti
gated by it. For those who view as innocent victims the large numbers
 of men and (predominantly) women who were burned alive for crimes
 that are now considered to be completely bereft of substance, the work
 epitomized everything that was wrong with what was thought to be a
 medieval mentality. Such an evaluation is at times associated with vari
ous extraneous attitudes, both positive and negative, such as a positive
 assessment of modern neo-paganism and wicca or hostility towards the
 modern Catholic Church, which is held to be responsible for the witch
 hunts. Those who are favorably disposed towards the Catholic Church
 may themselves have rather divergent attitudes.12 Some choose to disso
ciate the Church from medieval beliefs that were thought legitimate in
 the past but are no longer considered respectable, such as anti-semitism,
 and the witch hunts can fit into this category. But the Church contin
ues to recognize the validity of exorcism, and some Catholics, far from
 disowningtheMalleus,viewtheworkasavalidreflectionofSatan’sinter
ference in human affairs.13 Given that all these views relate to people’s
 attitudes aboutreligion,andthatsuchattitudesaremattersoffaithrather
 than demonstrable truth, it would be arather perilous and probably vain
 matter to try and assess the Malleus in such terms. The reader is perfectly
 entitled to evaluate the work in light of his or her religious beliefs, but
 the following assessment is based on a materialist understanding of the
 12 While the modern Roman Catholic Church is the linear descendant of the official state religion
 established in the Roman Empire over the course of the fourth century and has inherited the
 pretensions to it being the sole recognized religion laid out in Imperial legislation, it should
 be borne in mind that the Church has undergone a great deal of change over the succeeding
 millennium and a half. The universal Church as it existed in the medieval period has a large
 amountofoverlapwithitsmodernmanifestation,butthereisalsoafairamountofdivergence.In
 particular, it was only with the Council of Trent, which was held in the mid sixteenth century to
 counterthechallengeposedbythespreadofProtestantrejectionoftheCatholicChurch,thatthe
 latter’s doctrine and ceremonial were given a full systemization, which was then enforced by the
 administrative apparatus of the states that remained Catholic, and such enforcement of a more
 or less uniform understanding of Catholicism had been impossible during the medieval period.
 Thus, it is historically difficult to posit an absolute continuity between medieval doctrine and
 that of the present-day Church. Of course, those who have a monolithic conception of Catholic
 doctrine over the centuries may feel differently.
 13 Inanemail,IwastakentotaskbyadevoutCatholicforseemingtocastdoubt,intheintroduction
 to the bilingual edition, on the view presented in the Malleus that the world is “a place where
 demons inhabit [the area above] the earth ...and plot to ensnare humans ...guide them in
 their evil-doing and have sex with them.” I was then invited to a “Catholic Charismatic Prayer
 Breakfast” at which “personal testimony” would be given in proof of the reality of such demonic
 intervention in the world.
Introduction
 33
 worldinwhichthesupernaturalingeneralandthedemonicinparticular
 play no role in the affairs on earth.
 The major significance of the Malleus lies in the role it played in the
 dissemination and widespread acceptance of the elaborated theory of
 witchcraft. Certainly, the basic elements of this theory– sorcery, heresy
 and Satan’s attempt to undermine God’s world order– had existed since
 antiquity, as had the notion that Satan was involved to greater or lesser
 degree in both sorcery and heresy. What was new was the notion that
 sorcerybyitselfrepresentedaspecialformofheresythatplayedanimpor
tant part in Satan’s plans for the Final Days. This connection was already
 in existence in the early fifteenth century, but only one printed work (the
 Formicarius or Ant Hill of Johannes Nider) had discussed this notion,
 and then only tangentially and without drawing out the full implica
tions. The Malleus takes this notion and fully argues it in terms of the
 cosmological interpretation of the world (that is, the understanding of
 the universe in terms of Christian theology) as propounded by Thomas
 Aquinas. Thus, this notion, which had previously been inchoate, was
 given full academic justification as understood by the scholastic method
ology that held sway in the universities of late-medieval Europe. The
 twelve reprintings of the Malleus that were undertaken in Germany and
 Franceintheyears1486–1519attesttoaregulardemandforthework,and
 while, in the later sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, it was the works
 of other authors (e.g. Jean Bodin and Martin del Rio) that whipped up
 the frenzy for witch hunting, those works were effective only because
 of the shift in paradigm that the Malleus had brought about in the late
 f
 ifteenth and early sixteenth centuries.
 The notion of “shifts in paradigm” comes from Thomas Kuhn’s book
 TheStructureofScientificRevolutions.14 Inthatwork,Kuhnarguesagainst
 the modern conception of science as a gradual process consisting of
 the cumulative building up of factual knowledge that comes incremen
tally closer and closer to describing the natural world. Instead, scientists
 work on the basis of “paradigms,” that is, overarching conceptions of
 the nature of the issue in question. This paradigm is far more than
 simply a theory regarding a given set of phenomena. It is a fundamental
 understanding of the nature of the issue and of the very phenomena that
 are covered by it. In effect, the paradigm gives the general intellectual
 framework in which the investigation of the natural world is conducted.
 The paradigm holds sway to such an extent over the intellects of the
 14 Thomas S. Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, 3rd edn. (Chicago and London: Uni
versity of Chicago Press, 1996).
34
 The Hammer of Witches
 scientific investigators that, when phenomena arise that do not fit in
 with the dominant paradigm, at first these are often either misconstrued
 or even not perceived as anomalous at all in that they are interpreted,
 and indeed conceived of, only in terms of the paradigm. An example of
 such a paradigm-generated “distortion” comes from the late seventeenth
 and most of the eighteenth centuries, when astronomers on numerous
 occasions observed what we now know of as the planet Uranus. On
 the basis of the paradigm that held that a set of six planets circled the
 sun, however, either no motion was observed at all, in which case the
 object was conceived of asastar, or, if the motion wasperceived, abortive
 attempts were made to explain the object as a comet. Only in 1781 was
 the old paradigm rejected, when it was finally recognized that there were
 more planets out there.15 When new phenomena are recognized as call
ing the dominant paradigm into question, there can be a more or less
 prolonged crisis in which attempts are made either to salvage the old
 one or to come up with a new conception, and if the new conception
 wins out and a general consensus accepting it is formed, then there is a
 “shift in paradigm,” and the new paradigm then serves as the basis for
 further research.
 Though Kuhn’s insight on the nature of human conceptualization
 was put forward specifically in the context of scientific investigation, it
 seems fruitful to apply the notion to other spheres of activity in which
 people attempt to make sense of the world around them. After all, the
 Malleus strives to explain sorcery within the context of scholastic under
standing of the natural world, and thus is scientific by contemporary
 standards (at that time, the study of the natural world was at most an
 elementin“naturalphilosophy”). Indeed,oneofthereasonsforthegreat
 influence of the Malleus was the very fact that it does not simply argue
 for the existence of Satanic sorcery but gives the notion an ontological,
 phenomenological and teleological basis in the scholastic interpretation
 of the world. That is, the Malleus gives an all-encompassing explana
tion of what sorcery is, how we can perceive its effects, and what role
 it plays in the cosmic struggle between omnipotent God and his arch
enemySatan.Whereaspreviouslysorceryhadbeenviewedasadistasteful
 and illicit activity, it had not been viewed as having much significance
 beyond the commission of the act of sorcery itself; now, the Malleus
 15 See the discussion in Kuhn, Structure, 115–116. It is worth noting that the previously dominant
 paradigm of six planets (Mercury, Mars, Earth, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn) revolving around the sun
 was itself a new (Copernican) paradigm that had replaced the medieval/ancient paradigm that
 saw the five visible planets plus the sun and the moon revolving around the earth.
Introduction
 35
 seemed to prove in a detailed theoretical fashion that maleficent sor
cery was a major element in Satan’s assault on the very fabric of God’s
 creation. In effect, the full formulation of the diabolic interpretation of
 sorcery in terms of Thomastic scholastic demonstration created a new
 paradigm– one that had very menacing implications for those who
 accepted it.
 Kuhn provocatively suggests that:
 when paradigms change, the world itself changes with them. Led by a new
 paradigm, scientists adopt new instruments and look in new places. Even more
 important, during revolutions [i.e., the breakdown of the old paradigm and its
 replacement by a new one] scientists see new and different things when looking
 with familiar instruments in places they have looked before. It is rather as if
 the professional community had been suddenly transported to another planet
 where familiar objects are seen in a different light and are joined by unfamiliar
 ones as well.16
 He quickly grants that no such physical transformation takes place
 but maintains that “paradigm changes do cause scientists to see the
 world of their research-engagement differently,” and surely this overall
 characterization is applicable to the conceptual revolution propagated
 by the Malleus. What had previously been simply random instances
 of misguided activity now took on a far darker significance, and any
 such activities could readily be taken as proof of adherence to this liter
ally demonic conspiracy. If one truly believes that sorcery does produce
 effects in the natural world, that sorceresses engage in their malevolent
 activities as an integral part of Satan’s final attempt to overthrow the
 divine order, that the thwarting of Satan’s evil purposes can only be
 carried out through the physical destruction of his evil minions, and
 that the defense of Christendom is inextricably intertwined with the
 necessity of taking any steps required to track down and eradicate the
 practitioners of these evil arts, then clearly the most drastic measures
 would be called for. Given that the early modern method of criminal
 investigation in continental Europe involved the use of torture to extract
 information from the accused, it is hardly surprising that, if the officials
 in charge of investigations were already convinced of the existence of
 these heinous crimes and predisposed to take the guilt of the accused
 for granted, the accused were often compelled not only to confess to
 their supposed misdeeds but to implicate others who would in turn be
 subject to the same treatment. The only problem of course was that
 16 Kuhn, Structure,p.111.
36
 The Hammer of Witches
 the whole new paradigm was simply a figment of the imagination of
 f
 ifteenth-century ecclesiastics.
 Theissueofwhythewitchcrazedieddownintheseventeenthcentury
 is not exactly germane to a discussion of the Malleus in its own right,
 but since the Malleus is in large part responsible for the new paradigm of
 sorceresses, a few words may be warranted. One should begin by noting
 that the view advocated in the Malleus never attained universal accep
tance, and there were always voices speaking out against it. Nonetheless,
 a number of prominent individuals in both intellectual and administra
tive positions came to adopt the new paradigm wholeheartedly, and so
 long as the paradigm held some sway, it was likely to lead to excesses.
 In any event, the Malleus itself is deeply rooted in the scholastic under
standing of the cosmos, and this understanding came to be increasingly
 untenable with the various scientific discoveries that suggested a mecha
nistic universe, particularly the complete undermining of the Ptolemaic
 conception of the heavens that gradually followed upon the publica
tion of Copernicus’s De revolutionibus orbium caelestium in 1543.Now,
 it took many decades for the old system to give way, but the old tidy
 arrangement of an immutable cosmos circling majestically around the
 earth eventually yielded to the new heliocentric system, and with that
 the seemingly central role that demons and angels played in the cosmos
 was likewise called into serious question. There was clearly far more to
 the shift in intellectual understanding of the world that resulted in the
 rejection of the paradigm advocated in the Malleus, and it would be
 beyond present purposes to discuss this topic.
 Inadditiontotheseexternalfactors,theparadigmalsocollapsedunder
 the weight of its own inherent implausibility. If the new conception was
 true, thenthereweresatanicsorceresseslurkingeverywhere,andtheearly
 seventeenthcenturysawcertainsmalljurisdictionsinsouthernGermany
 carry out large-scale efforts to uproot sorcery in major campaigns that
 fed upon the accusations of the innocent made under torture by those
 already accused. One of the most famous books written against these
 campaigns was the Cautio Criminalis (1631) of Friedrich von Spee, a
 Jesuit priest who had acted as a confessor to those about to be burned
 alive for sorcery. The work is a general denunciation of the legal abuses
 that led to convictions, and while Spee does not deny the existence of
 sorcery, he notes his disbelief that any of those supposed sorceresses for
 whom he acted as confessor had actually been guilty.
 Thus,whatunderminedtheparadigmoutlinedintheMalleus wasthe
 combination of a number of factors, such as the contradiction between
Introduction
 37
 the scientific underpinnings of the work in medieval scholasticism and
 new understandings of the functioning of the universe, the declining
 desire to see Satan as an active participant in the world around us, and
 the inherent lack of substance to the great conspiracy that was presup
posed by the paradigm. While it is easy to adopt an attitude of smug
 self-satisfaction when considering the widespread adherence to views
 that now seem (for most people) to be incompatible with a rational
 understanding of the world, it is preferable to understand the work in
 its own context. At the time, the views advocated in it were firmly based
 in the most authoritative texts. Demons and Satan figure prominently
 in the Gospels, and other parts of the Bible had been interpreted in
 light of this. Demons were taken for granted in the orthodox works
 of the Church Fathers of antiquity and the middle ages. Perhaps most
 importantly, the role of demons and sorcery in the world was demon
strated in some detail by Thomas Aquinas, perhaps the most respected
 intellectual figure in scholasticism (and certainly the most respected in
 the eyes of Dominicans). And as for being caught up in a frenzy of
 seemingly irrational behavior on the basis of some delusional belief in
 a demonic conspiracy, one does not have to go back to the anti-semitic
 madness of NaziGermanytofindaparallelphenomenoninthemodern
 world. Less than thirty years ago in the United States, an unwarranted
 belief that satanic cults were abusing children, combined with an anxiety
 that children were being mistreated in daycare centers, led to egregious
 miscarriages of justice in highly publicized trials involving completely
 unbelievable accusations and testimony. In fact, one famous victim of
 such a trial (Gerald Amirault) was released only in 2004 after spending
 eighteen years in prison following his conviction for accusations that
 had not the least merit. So perhaps what can be said for the modern
 world is that it takes only a few years to dispel the sort of frenzy that
 went on for a century and a half in early modern Europe.
 Malleus as evidence for contemporary practices
 To shift the question of the significance of the Malleus, it is worthwhile
 to consider how far the work can be viewed as a valid reflection of
 contemporarysorceresses. It is a basic conceptinmodernculturalstudies
 to make a distinction, in dealing with the pre-modern Europe, between
 the “elite” culture of the educated upperclasses andthe“popular”culture
 of the general populace. This distinction is not without difficulties– the
 elite did not live in a vacuumthat isolated them frominfluencesderiving
38
 The Hammer of Witches
 from the beliefs of the lower orders, while for their part the non-elite
 members of society could not be entirely immune from the ideas that
 mainly circulated among the elites– but it nonetheless holds generally
 true. In particular, most knowledgeofpopularculturederives inoneway
 or another from sources of information that either were produced by
 members of the elite or at the least are preserved in media that reflected
 elite rather than popular culture. What then to make of the Malleus?
 Does it in any way give us access to actual practices of sorcery among
 the general populace? Obviously, it is a work of the intellectual elite,
 yet it overtly treats a topic that relates to the lower orders. For the most
 part, the understanding of sorcery presented in the work rests on the
 theoretical discussions of Thomas Aquinas, and hence sheds little light
 on contemporary beliefs. Even the arguments against sorcery that are
 attributed to contemporary opponents of the view advocated in the
 work actually derive from the negative position that in various disputed
 questions are attributed by Aquinas to the advocates of the false view
 before he rebuts it, so that the Malleus is to a large extent simply an
 intellectual exercise based on earlier literary precedents rather than a
 reflection of the world around it.
 On the other hand, the work cites a number of anecdotes from the
 personal experience of (almost certainly) Institoris. To the extent that
 these derive from judicial proceedings, there is no reason to doubt their
 accuracyinthatregard.Thatis,thestatementsaboutInstitoris’sactivities
 in Ravensburg and Innsbruck seem to be reasonable enough accounts of
 the proceedings (taking into account that he was dealing from memory
 with events that took place several years before). But that says absolutely
 nothing about the accuracy of the description of the activities that were
 investigated and for which people like Anna of Mindelheim and Agnes
 the bath keeper were burned to ashes. For instance, was the old woman
 whowasconvictedofcausingahailstormoutofspitebecauseshehadnot
 been invited to a wedding party (104B–C) actually guilty of doing so? In
 a metaphysical sense, of course not. On the other hand, it is not beyond
 the realm of possibility that she did in fact use magical procedures to
 do so. But it is very unlikely that the activity even subjectively involved
 the invocations of a demon in a self-aware act of satanism (much less
 the actual participation of a demon, though again it cannot be ruled
 out that the woman imagined such a thing). It is far more likely that
 she was either falsely accused in the first place (the evidence that led
 to her arrest is hardly compelling, and the confession is based on the
 application of judicial torture). The satanic interpretation of her alleged
Introduction
 39
 behavior is almostcertainly a construct imposedonthesituationbecause
 of theauthor’s adherencetotheparadigmofsatanicsorcery.Thatis,even
 when there was subjective use of sorcery by peasants, this would have
 been simply old-fashioned magical practice that had nothing to do with
 a diabolic conspiracy. Such a process of reinterpretation on the basis of
 the paradigm can be seen in the discussion of the seemingly innocuous
 peasant cures for sorcery discussed towards the end of Pt. 2. These cures
 are simply part of the to-and-fro of peasant magic for the purpose of
 some sort of personal gain or vengeance and subjectively do not have
 anything to do with the evil designs of Satan, but given the hold of
 the paradigm on Institoris’s imagination, it was very difficult for him
 to conceive of “innocent” magic outside of this conception. Thus, the
 Malleus cansafely be usedasaguidetotheunderstandingofsorceryheld
 in the mid to late fifteenth century by certain members of the elite. It is
 very difficult to consider the anecdotal material in the work as shedding
 unfiltered light on popular beliefs and practices.
 suggestions for further reading
 Ankarloo, Bengt, and Stuart Clark (eds.), Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: The
 Period of the Witch Trials (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press,
 2002).
 Audisio, Gabriel, The Waldensian Dissent: Persecution and Survival, c. 1170
c. 1570, trans. by C. Davison (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
 1999).
 Behringer, Wolfgang, Shaman of Oberstdorst: Chonrad Stoeckhlin and the Phan
tomsoftheNight,trans.byH.C.ErikMidelfort(Charlottesville:University
 of Virginia Press, 1994).
 ——,Witchcraft Persecutions in Bavaria: Popular Magic, Religious Zealotry and
 Reason of State in Early Modern Europe, trans. by J. C. Grayson and
 D. Lederer (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1997).
 Behringer, Wolfgang, G¨ unter Jerouschek and Werner Tschacher (eds. and
 trans.), Der Hexenhammer: Malleus Maleficarum (Munich: Deutscher
 Taschenbuch Verlag, 2000).
 Borst, Arno, “The Origins of the Witch-craze in the Alps,” in his Medieval
 Worlds: Barbarians, Heretics and Artists in the Middle Ages (Chicago: Uni
versity of Chicago Press, 1992), 101–122.
 Brundage, James A., Medieval Canon Law (London and New York: Longman,
 1995).
 Cohn,Norman,PursuitoftheMillennium,rev.edn.(Oxford:OxfordUniversity
 Press, 1973).
 ——,Europe’sInner Demons:TheDemonizationof Christians in Medieval Chris
tendom, rev. edn. (London: Pimlico, 1993).
40
 The Hammer of Witches
 Enders, Rudolf, “Heinrich Institoris, sein Hexenhammer und der N¨ urnberger
 Rat,” in Peter Segl (ed.), Der Hexenhammer: Entstehung und Umfeld des
 Malleus maleficarum von 1487 (Cologne and Vienna: B¨ ohlau Verlag, 1988),
 195–216.
 Frankfurter, David, Evil Incarnate: Rumors of Demonic Conspiracy and Satanic
 AbuseinHistory (PrincetonandOxford:PrincetonUniversityPress,2006).
 Gracia, Jorge J. E. and Timothy B. Noone, A Companion to Philosophy in the
 Middle Ages (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2003).
 Hamilton, Bernard, The Medieval Inquisition (London: E. Arnold, 1981).
 Hansen, Joseph, Zauberwahn, Inquisition und Hexenprozess im Mittelalter
 und die Entstehung der grossen Hexenverfolgung (Munich and Leipzig: R.
 Oldenbourg, 1900).
 ——,Quellen und Forschungen zur Geschichte des Hexenwahns und der Hexen
verfolgungen im Mittelalter (Bonn: Universit¨ ats-Buchdruckerei, 1901).
 ——, “Heinrich Institoris, der Verfasser des Hexenhammers, und seine
 T¨ atigkeit an der Mosel im Jahre 1488,” Westdeutsche Zeitschrift f¨ ur
 Geschichte und Kunst 26 (1907) 110–118.
 Hinnebusch, William A., The History of the Dominican Order, 2 vols. (New
 York: Alba House, 1966–1973).
 Hopkin, Charles Edward, The Share of Thomas Aquinas in the Growth of the
 Witchcraft Delusion [1940] (New York: Ams Press, 1982).
 Jerouschek, G¨ unter, Malleus Maleficarum 1487 von Heinrich Kramer (Institoris):
 Nachdruck des Erstdrucks von 1487 mit Bulle und Approbatio (Hildesheim,
 Z¨ urich and New York: Georg Olms Verlag, 1992).
 ——, N¨ urnberger Hexenhammer 1491 von Heinrich Kramer (Institoris): Fak
simile der Handschrift von 1491 aus dem Staatsarchiv N¨ urnberg, Nr. D 251
 (Hildesheim, Z¨ urich and New York: Georg Olms Verlag, 1992).
 Kieckherfer, Richard, European Witch Trials: Their Foundations in Popular
 and Learned Culture, 1300-1500 (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of
 California Press, 1976).
 ——,Forbidden Rites: A Necromancer’s Manual of the Fifteenth Century (Uni
versity Park: The Pennsylvania State Press, 1997).
 Lambert, Malcolm, Medieval Heresy: Popular Movements from the Gregorian
 Reform to the Reformation, 3rd edn. (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2002).
 Langbein, John H., Prosecuting Crime in the Renaissance: England, Germany,
 France (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1974).
 ——,Torture and the Law of Proof: Europe and England in the Ancient R´ egime
 (Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1977).
 Lawrence, Clifford H., Medieval Monasticism: Forms of Religious Life in Western
 Europe in the Middle Ages (London and New York: Longman, 1984).
 Mackay, Christopher S., Malleus Maleficarum, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Cambridge
 University Press, 2006).
 Midelfort, H. C. Erik, “Were there Really Witches?” reprinted in Brian Levack
 (ed.), Witch-Hunting in Early Modern Europe: General Studies, vol. 3 (New
 York and London: Garland Publishing, 1992), 141–157.
Introduction
 41
 Oldridge, Darren (ed.), The Witchcraft Reader, 2nd edn. (London and New
 York: Routledge, 2008).
 Ostorero, Martine, Agostino Paravicini Bagliani, Kathrin Utz Tremp with
 Catherine Ch` ene, L’imaginaire du sabbat (Lausanne: University of Lau
sanne, 1999).
 Peters, Edward, Torture (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1985).
 ——, Inquisition (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press,
 1988).
 ——,“TheMedievalChurchandStateonSuperstition,MagicandWitchcraft:
 FromAugustine totheSixteenth Century,” in Bengst Ankarloo and Stuart
 Clark (eds.), Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: The Middle Ages (London:
 The Athlone Press, 2001), 173–245.
 Piltz, Anders, The World of Medieval Learning, trans. by D. Jones (Oxford: Basil
 Blackwell, 1981).
 Pitz, Ernst, “Diplomatische Studien zu den p¨ apstlichen Erlassen ¨ uber das
 Zauber- und Hexenwesen,” in Peter Segl (ed.), Der Hexenhammer: Entste
hung und Umfeld des Malleus maleficarum von 1487 (Cologne and Vienna:
 B¨ ohlau Verlag, 1988), 23–70.
 Rashdall, Hastings, The Universities of Europe in the Middle Ages, new edn. by
 F. M. Powicke and A. B. Emden (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1936).
 Ridder-Symoens, Hilda de (ed.), A History of the University in Europe: Volume 1,
 Universities in the Middle Ages (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
 1992).
 Roper, Lyndal, Witch Craze (New Haven and London: Yale University Press,
 2004).
 Schnyder, Andr´ e, Malleus Maleficarum von Heinrich Institoris (alias Kramer)
 unter Mithilfe Jakob Sprengers aufgrund der d¨ amonologischen Tradi
tion zusammengestellt: Widergabe des Erstdrucks von 1487 (Hain 9238)
 (G¨ oppingen: K¨ ummerle Verlag, 1991).
 ——, Malleus Maleficarum von Heinrich Institoris (alias Kramer) unter
 Mithilfe Jakob Sprengers aufgrund der d¨ amonologischen Tradition zusam
mengestellt: Kommentar zur Wiedergabe des Erstdrucks von 1487 (Hain 9238)
 (G¨ oppingen: K¨ ummerle Verlag, 1993).
 Segl, Peter, “Heinrich Institoris. Pers¨ onlichkeit und literarisches Werk,” in Peter
 Segl (ed.), Der Hexenhammer: Entstehung und Umfeld des Malleus Malefi
carum von 1487 (Cologne and Vienna: B¨ ohlau Verlag, 1988), 103–126.
 Senner, Walter, “How Henricus Institoris became Inquisitor for Germany: The
 Origin of SummisDesiderantis [sic] Affectibus,” in Praedicatores, Inquisitors
 I: The Dominicans and the Medieval Inquisition. Acts of the 1st International
 SeminarontheDominicansandtheInquisition,23–25February,2002(Rome:
 Istituto Storico Domenicano, 2004), 396–406.
 Stephens,Walter,DemonLovers:Witchcraft,SexandtheCrisisofBelief (Chicago:
 University of Chicago Press, 2002).
 Tester, S. Jim, A History of Western Astrology (Woodbridge and Wolfeboro: The
 Boydell Press, 1987).
42
 The Hammer of Witches
 Thomas, Keith, Religion and the Decline of Magic (London: Weidenfeld &
 Nicolson, 1971).
 Walther, Hans, Proverbia sententiaeque latinitatis medii aevii (reprint edn.,
 G¨ ottingen: Vanhoeck & Ruprecht, 1963).
 Wander, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm, Deutsches Sprichw¨ orter-Lexikon (reprint edn.,
 Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1964).
 Wilson, Eric, “Institoris at Innsbruck: Henrich Institoris, the Summis Desider
antes, andtheBrixenWitch-Trialof1485,”inR.W.ScribnerandT.Johnson
 (eds.), Popular Religion in Germany and Central Europe, 1400–1800 (New
 York: St. Martin’s Press, 1996), 87–100.
 Winston-Allen, Anne, Stories of the Rose: The Making of the Rosary in the Middle
 Ages (University Park: The Pennsylvania State University Press, 1997).
 notes on the translation
 (a) Method of making references to the text
 For ease of citation, I have assigned notations to the text that appear
 in the margin. These notations are based on the modern method of
 pagination used in Schnyder’s facsimile of the first edition, which gives
 each page its own arabic number.17 Schnyder then inserts capital letters
 to designate the halves of the two columns that appear on each page,
 so that A and B represent the start of the top and bottom halves of the
 f
 irst column and C and D the corresponding halves of the second. The
 use of these designations not only facilitates consultation of the Latin
 text (both the bilingual edition from which this translation is derived
 and the facsimile of the first edition) but also gives a much more specific
 reference than simply quoting the book and question from which a
 quotation derives.18
 (b) Sources not from canon law
 The Malleus is filled with a vast number of citations of earlier works,
 but most of these citations are borrowed from the main sources for the
 work. If necessary, the full citation of the work (or further citation if
 17 Schnyder uses an arabic number followed by an asterisk for the few pages of the separate
 publication containing the Bull and Approbation.
 18 Jerouschek’s facsimile employs the bibliographically accurate but cumbersome procedure of
 numbering the folios (separate pieces of paper comprising two modern “pages” each) and indi
cating the front and back sides with the superscript letters r and v, for “recto” and “verso” (i.e.,
 “front” and “back” page). The two columns on each page are simply designated as a and b. It is
 simple enough to convert Schnyder’s numbers to Jerouschek’s. If the number is even, one simply
 divides by two and appends the letter v (thus, 102 becomes 51v). If the number is odd, one adds
 one and then divides by two, appending the letter r (thus, 101 becomes 51r). Thus, Schnyder’s
 102C and 102D comprise the top and bottom halves of Jerouschek’s 51vb.
Introduction
 43
 the citation in the Malleus is inadequate or incomplete) is provided in
 square brackets (these always indicate an editorial addition that does not
 appear in the original). If the Malleus provides only the book number,
 this is repeated along with the chapter division in the modern method
 of citation (i.e., “Physics, Book 4 [4.2]” indicates that the reference is to
 book4,chapter2).NotethattheBibleisquotedonlybychapternumber
 in the Malleus, so verse numbers always appear in square brackets. At
 the end of each question (chapter in Pt. 2), the main primary sources
 for that section are given in square brackets.
 To avoid repetitious footnotes, below is given a list (arranged alpha
betically by author’s first name) of the works cited in the Malleus, which
 also provides a brief description of the authors and their works. “Legists”
 are scholars who study Roman civil law, and “canonists” are scholars of
 canon law.
 Albert (Albertus Magnus or “The Great,” ca. 1200–1285) German
 Dominican and prominent scholastic. He undertook the mon
umental task of commenting upon all the works of Aristotle and
 played a crucial role in winning for the Greek philosopher a promi
nent place in scholastic philosophy.
 Alexander of Hales (ca. 1185–1245) English friar who was both a
 prelate and theologian. He became a favorite scholastic for Fran
ciscans, and his Summa theologica was the text for which he was
 best known.
 Algazel (Abu Hamid Muhammedal-Ghazali,1058–1111) AMoslem
 theologian. The references to him in the Malleus come from
 Aquinas.
 Ambrose,St.(ca.340–397) BishopofMilan,hewasastrictdefender
 of orthodoxy.
 Anselm (†1109) An Italian monk who was eventually made arch
bishop of Canterbury. Though his writings were influential, he
 wrote at the very beginning of the scholastic movement and his
 works were largely superseded by those of more mature scholastics.
 Antoninus (1389–1459)
 Dominican archbishop of Florence, he
 wrote the Summa theologica moralis towards the end of his life.
 A popular work on various aspects of moral and ecclesiastical life,
 it providedthesourceoftherathernegativeviewofwomenadopted
 in the Malleus (see above in section on “Sources”).
 Archdeacon, the (Guido de Baysio, ca. 1250–1313) Italian canonist.
 He was best known for the Rosarium, a commentary on Gratian’s
 Decretum, but his relevance to the Malleus comes from his having
 written an apparatus (collection of glosses) on the Liber sextus.
44
 The Hammer of Witches
 Aristotle (384–322 bc) One of the pre-eminent philosophers of
 ancient Greece, he advocated the rigorous use of logic. Large num
bers of his writings on various topics of philosophy and what we
 would call science (natural philosophy) survived antiquity, and the
 rediscovery of these works through Latin translation, first of Arabic
 translations and then of the Greek originals, had a profound influ
ence on scholasticism (because of his seminal role in the develop
ment of scholastic thought he was known simply as “the Philoso
pher”). Tralaticious references to the Eudemian Ethics and Nico
machean Ethics are given simply as the Ethics without distinction.
 Thepseudo-Aristotelian Properties of Elements is attributed to him.
 Augustine (354–430) Far and away the most intellectually sig
nificant figure among the Latin-speaking Christian thinkers of
 late antiquity; very large numbers of his writings survive and
 these formed the basis of western theology until the time of
 the scholastics. His City of God (De civitate dei) provided the
 framework for the medieval understanding of history.
 Authentic (Authenticum) Medieval term for the Novels (Novellae),
 the subsequent Imperial decisions of Justinian that were issued
 after the promulgation of his Code. These decisions were never
 officially issued as a collection, and two separate private collections
 survived in the West at the time of the revival of the study
 of Roman law in the eleventh century. The term Authenticum
 signifies the famous legist Irnerius’s erroneous belief that one
 collection represented the “authentic” or official version.
 Avicenna (980–1037) Moslem interpreter of Aristotle, and in
 Latin translation his work had an influential impact on scholastic
 thought, especially that of Aquinas (from whom the references in
 the Malleus derive).
 Azo (ca. 1150–1230) Famous early legist.
 Bede (672/3–735) A learned English monk who composed a large
 number of works on a variety of topics. His famous Histories of the
 Angles treated the history of the Germanic population of England.
 Bernard (de Botone of Parma, †1266) Canonist whose apparatus
 (collection of glosses) entitled the Commentary on the Decretals of
 Gregory VII became the Ordinary Gloss on the Liber extra.
 Bernard, St. (of Clairvaux, 1090–1153) An early leader of the
 Cistercian movement, he is cited only in passing in the Malleus.
 The Birth of the Sciences A work by Robert Kilwardby (ca.
 1215–1279), an English scholastic (and high-ranking Dominican
Introduction
 45
 prelate). This work was a theoretical treatment of the nature of
 speculative philosophy.
 Boethius (480–524/5) Important Christian author. While impris
oned, he composed the Consolation of Philosophy (De consolatione
 philosophiae), and even though this work is inspired by purely
 pagan philosophical thought and bears no trace of Christian
 influence, it was popular in the middle ages. His translation of
 and commentary on Porphyry’s Isagoge was one of the foundations
 of Christian logic until the scholastic age. The Malleus also has a
 reference to his treatise Music (De institutione musica).
 Bonaventure, St. (1217–1274) An Italian Franciscan, he was a
 scholastic theologian.
 Book of Examples of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary (Liber exemplorum
 Beatissime Virginis Marie) Presumably an alternative title for
 some collection of edifying anecdotes; its identity is unknown.
 Book of the Saintly Fathers See “Lives of the Fathers.”
 Book on Causes (Liber de causis) An Arabic compilation of the
 Greek Stoicheiosis theologica of the Neo-Platonic philosopher
 Proclus, this work was taken to be Aristotelian. It was commented
 on by Aquinas (from whom the reference comes).
 Caesarius (of Heisterbach, ca. 1170– ca. 1240) Cistercian monk
 of the monastery of Heisterbach in Germany. He was a prolific
 author, and his Dialogus miraculorum (“Dialogue on Miracles”)
 was an extremely popular work in late medieval Germany.
 Cassian (ca. 360– ca. 435) Important figure in the spread of the
 monastic movement in the West during late antiquity. He wrote
 the Collationes (“Conferences”), a collection of conversations that
 he and a companion had with famous ascetics in Egypt. This work
 is quoted extensively in the Malleus through citations of it in Nider.
 Catholicon A popular medieval dictionary of Latin.
 Cato A collection of one- and two-line moral aphorisms was made
 at an indeterminate date under the Roman Empire on the basis
 of sententious statements in the mimes of Publilius Syrus. One
 version came with a preface purporting to be addressed by
 Marcus Cato to his son, and the work was very popular in the
 middle ages under the title Catonis Distich (“Cato’s couplet”).
 The putative author was presumably meant to be Cato the Elder
 (M. Porcius Cato, 234–149 bc), who had a reputation for strict
 morality and was a prolific author (rather than his great-grandson
 Cato Uticensis).
46
 The Hammer of Witches
 Chancellor, the (1166/85– 1236) Philip the Chancellor was an
 academic known for his position as chancellor of the cathedral of
 Notre Dame in Paris. While his definition of the cardinal virtues
 in Summa de bono was influential, he is little studied apart from
 that work, and the identity of the Flowers of Moral Rules (Flores
 regularum moralium) is unclear.
 Chrysostom, St. (ca. 347–407) His actual name was John, but he
 posthumouslycametobecalledChrysostom(“Golden-mouthed”)
 on the basis of his oratorical skills. He was not a great thinker
 but his excellence as a preacher resulted in the preservation of a
 large number of his works, especially homilies and commentaries
 on various books of the Bible. The Unfinished Work on Matthew
 is the composition of a Late Antique Arian that was spuriously
 ascribed to Chrysostom.
 Cicero (Marcus Tullius Cicero, 106–43 bc) The most famous
 orator of ancient Rome. In addition to many speeches, a number
 of philosophical works survive. To him was falsely ascribed the
 Rhetoric, an anonymous treatise on rhetorical practice from the
 early first century bc that is known today as the Ad Herennium.
 Code of Justinian Official collection of decisions of Roman
 emperors that was compiled by order of the late Roman Emperor
 Justinian (527–565).
 Dionysius the Areopagite Acts 17:34 states that someone of this
 name was converted to Christianity by Paul’s speech about the
 “unknown god,” and several works written in Greek purport to be
 by this man. Internal evidence shows that the author who adopted
 this persona lived around 500 and was probably a Syrian monk.
 Directorium [Inquisitorum] Handbook on inquisitorial procedure
 written by Nicholas Eymeric (ca. 1320–1399) that was the main
 source for Pt. 3 of the Malleus (see above in section on “Sources”).
 Ecclesiastical Dogmas (Liber de ecclesiasticis dogmatibus) A work
 falsely ascribed to Augustine; the reference comes from Aquinas.
 Geoffrey (Gotfridus or Goffredus de Trano, †1245) An early
 canonist. His Summa on the Titles of Decretals (Summa super
 rubricis decretalium) was a major source for the Ordinary Gloss,
 but knowledge of him in the Malleus is tralaticious.
 Gregory, St. (“The Great”) (ca. 540–604) The first monk elected
 pope (590), which lent prestige to his writings.
 Guido of the Order of Carmelites (Guido Terrena, †1342) French
 scholastic and prelate, he wrote a number of works on theology.
Introduction
 47
 Haguccio (†1210) Italian canonist who wrote a Summa super
 corpore decretorum (“Summa on the body of decretals”), which is
 considered one of the most important treatises on canon law but
 has never been published.
 Heraclides The story of this reference is somewhat complicated.
 There is a work about early Egyptian monasticism known as the
 Lausiac History (because it was dedicated to Lausus, the chamber
lain of the late Roman Emperor Theodosius II) that was written
 by someone named Palladius, who may or may not be the same
 as a fifth-century bishop of Helenopolis of the same name. This
 work circulated in the middle ages in a short Latin version known
 as the Paradise of Heraclides (Paradisus Heraclidis) and, on the basis
 of its content, was also called Vitas Patrum (“Lives of the Fathers”).
 In any case, the references in the Malleus come from Nider.
 Hostiensis (Henry of Susa or Henricus de Segusio, 1190/1200– 1271)
 Influential canonist (the name by which he is generally known
 refers to his position as the cardinal-bishop of Ostia), whose
 Copious Summa (Summa copiosa, also known as the Aurea summa
 or “Golden Summa”) was a greatly respected legal treatise.
 Isidore, St. (ca. 560–636) Isidore, the bishop of Seville in Spain,
 was a prolific writer and his Etymologies (Etymologiae) was popular
 in the later middle ages as an encyclopedia.
 Itinerary of Clement (Itinerarium Clementis) This work (also known
 as the Recognitions of Clement) was written early in the history of
 Christianity (third century?) and purports to be the personal story
 of St. Clement, who was supposedly bishop of Rome ca. 100. The
 work was originally written in Greek but survives only in a Latin
 translation from late antiquity.
 Jerome, St. (ca. 340–420) A dyspeptic Christian ascetic, who was
 also a prolific author. He is best known for drawing up in its
 f
 inal form the Vulgate Latin text of the Bible. He wrote large
 numbers of commentaries on various books of the Bible. He also
 wrote several vitriolic treatises against those whose orthodoxy he
 disputed, and the Malleus quotes from the work Against Jovinianus,
 a heated defense of the superiority of celibacy over married life.
 Towards the end of Book One, Jerome has an extended passage in
 which he disparages wives as a group, and this became a favorite
 anti-female text in the middle ages and served as a source for
 Walter Map in his spurious To Rufinus of Valerius (see below
 under Valerius).
48
 The Hammer of Witches
 John Monachi (Johannes Monachus or Monachi, or Jean LeMoine,
 ca. 1250–1313) Wroteanumberofinfluentialworksoncanonlaw.
 John (Johannes) Nider (ca. 1380–1438) High-ranking Dominican,
 whose Formicarium or Ant Hill and Praeceptorium are important
 sources for the Malleus (see above in section on “Sources”).
 John of Andrea (Johannes Andreae or Giovanni d’Andrea, ca. 1270
1348) Important canonist whose apparatus (collection of glosses)
 on the Liber sextus and the Clementines was soon adopted as the
 Ordinary Gloss. He also wrote the Book on Jerome (Hierominianus),
 a treatise on the cult of St. Jerome.
 John of Damascus (St. John Damascene, ca. 675– ca. 750) The last
 of the Greek Fathers, he was a vigorous opponent of iconoclasm.
 His Exposition of the Orthodox Faith (Expositio fidei orthodoxae),
 which was the third part of his Fount of Knowledge (Pege gnoseos),
 was a collection of pronouncements by earlier Greek patristic
 authors on a variety of topics. The work is similar in conception
 to Peter Lombard’s Pronouncements and is referred to by this title
 in the Malleus.
 Lactantius (Lucius Caecilius Firmianus Lactantius, fl. 300–320)
 Christian apologist whose Divine Institutes (Divinae institutiones)
 was the first attempt at systematic theology composed in Latin.
 “Lives of the Fathers” (Vitas Patrum) This compilation of stories
 from various sources about the early Egyptian hermits was falsely
 ascribed to Jerome.
 Lucan (Marcus Annaeus Lucanus, 39–65) Ancient Roman poet
 whose Civil War treated the war that broke out in 49 bc between
 Julius Caesar and the defenders of the Roman Republic.
 Master, The See Peter Lombard and Scholastic History.
 Moses (Maimonides, 1135–1204) Famous Jewish philosopher from
 Spain. The reference to him is borrowed from Aquinas.
 Nicholas of Lyra (1270–1340) French Franciscan well known for
 his commentary (Postilla literalis) on the Bible. He is cited merely
 because of Paul of Burgos’s correction of him.
 Ordinary Gloss (glossa ordinaria) Strictly speaking, a “gloss” is a
 note explaining a single word, but it came to be used collectively
 to describe a collection of such glosses on a single work. Thus,
 the “ordinary gloss” signifies the “standard commentary.” The
 Ordinary Gloss on the Bible consisted of excerpts from the
 recognized exegetes of the past. Later, an Ordinary Gloss was
 established for the canon law (a different commentator providing
 the commentary for each of the successive codes).
Introduction
 49
 Origen (185–253/4) An extremely prolific and original author on
 various Christian topics (comparatively few of his works survive).
 He was highly respected in his lifetime, but in late antiquity
 certain groups in the Greek East were condemned for adherence
 to beliefs attributed to him and “Origenism” fell into disrepute.
 Pandect This was a medieval term for the Digest, which constituted
 one of the three sections of the final codification of Roman law
 promulgated under the late Roman Emperor Justinian (527–565).
 The work consists of extracts from the jurists of Roman civil law
 arranged under various rubrics in fifty books.
 Paul of Burgos (ca. 1365–1435) Spanish biblical scholar whose
 Additions (Additiones) or marginal notes on the Postilla of Nicholas
 of Lyra was published several times in the 1480s.
 Peter Damian, St. (1007–1072) Italian prior who was deeply
 involved in papal politics.
 Peter de Palude (also Peter Paludanus, ca. 1280–1342) Prolific
 Dominican author whose works include a Commentary on
 Pronouncements.
 Peter Lombard (ca. 1100–1160) Little is known of the man who
 produced one of the most influential books in the history of
 scholastic theology. His Pronouncements (generally known as
 Sentences) is a collection of excerpts from recognized Church
 authorities that are arranged under logical rubrics in four books.
 The work thus showed little originality but was a very convenient
 summary of views on a given topic. This collection was the stan
dard introduction to theology throughout the scholastic period,
 and later theologians frequently wrote commentaries on the
 work.
 Peter of Bonaventure See Bonaventure.
 Peter of Tarentaise (1245–1277) French Dominican who became
 Pope Innocent V. He wrote a Commentary on Pronouncements.
 Philosopher, The See Aristotle.
 Pronouncements See Peter Lombard.
 Ptolemy (Claudius Ptolemaeus, fl. 127–147) Ancient astronomer
 whose Almagest (known by its Arabic name) is a clear exposition of
 the heliocentric astronomical theory, and as the standard textbook
 on the subject in the medieval period it provided the basis for
 scholastic thought on the subject.
 Raymund (of Penyafort, or Raymundus, 1180/85–1275) An influen
tial Spanish canonist, he received from Pope Gregory IX the task
 of drawing up the collection of decretals knowns as the Liber extra.
50
 The Hammer of Witches
 Remigius (†908) The commentary on the letters of Paul written by
 Haimo of Auxerre was attributed to Remigius of Auxerre, a Bene
dictine monk who wrote a number of works of biblical exegesis.
 Saintly Doctor, The See Thomas Aquinas.
 Scholastic History This work of the twelfth-century ecclesiastic
 Peter Comestor (“The Master”) was a sort of historical exegesis of
 the non-didactic books of the Bible that enjoyed great popularity
 in the late middle ages. Hence, the abbreviated form of reference
 to both the title and author (though the straightforward “Master”
 would more naturally be taken as referring to Peter Lombard).
 Scotus (John Duns Scotus, ca. 1266–1308) Of Scottish origin
 (hence the name Scotus, which means “the Scotsman”), he was a
 Francisan friar who became one of the most influential scholastic
 theologians, but, since he was a Franciscan, it was somewhat
 unusual for Dominicans to follow his views.
 Seneca (Lucius Annaeus Seneca, 4bc/ ad 1– ad 65) Roman Stoic
 philosopher and author, he composed several tragedies, which
 were known in the middle ages. The one (tralaticious) quotation
 in the Malleus comes from his play Medea, but another quotation
 attributed to his tragedies actually comes from Publilius Syrus.
 Severus (Sulpicius Severus, ca. 360– ca. 420) Born to a high
 position in Gaul, he attached himself to St. Martin of Tours and
 wrote a number of works about his esteemed mentor.
 Six Principles This work is an anonymous elaboration on the six
 of Aristotle’s ten “categories” which he described less fully than
 the other four (the regular Latin translation of “category” was
 praedicamentum, but here it was rendered as principia, which is
 translated here as “principles”). This work came to be ascribed
 to Aristotle, but it was often considered by later scholastics to
 be the work of Gilbert of Porr´ ee (a twelfth-century scholastic of
 dubious orthodoxy). Many people continued to consider the work
 anonymous, however, and this seems to be the case in the Malleus.
 Strabus (Walafridus Strabus, †849) Monk of the famous monastery
 of Fulda, he was traditionally considered the author of the biblical
 Ordinary Gloss, though this attribution is no longer accepted.
 Terence (Publius Terentius Afer, ca. 190 bc– 159 bc) Roman
 playwright.
 Thomas Aquinas, St. (1224/6–1274) Italian scholastic (“Aquinas”
 means “of Aquino,” his birthplace). A Dominican, he produced a
 very large number of works on theology, which eventually came to
Introduction
 51
 be accepted as the standard exposition of Catholic doctrine (and
 were particularly esteemed in Dominican circles). He is frequently
 mentioned in the Malleus simply as the “Saintly Doctor” (doctor
 sanctus), which refers to his canonization. Though a number
 of his works are cited, the most frequent references are to his
 Commentary on Pronouncements, and to the Summa theologica.
 The peculiar method of citing the latter needs comment. The
 work is divided into three parts (the last completed, on the basis
 of his outline, by students, from material in the Commentary on
 Pronouncements), and the second part is itself divided into two
 parts. Due to its great prestige, the Summa theologica was quoted
 only by reference to the part without explicit mention of the title.
 References to Part One and Part Three are simple enough, but
 the second part was cited as First or Second of the Second without
 explicit mention of the word “part.”
 ThomasofBrabant (Thomas de Cantinpr´ e, 1201–1271) Dominican
 scholastic. Among the works attributed to him is the Universale
 bonum de apibus (“Universal Good regarding Bees”), an allegorical
 treatment of moral precepts and the appropriate behavior of
 superiors and subordinates that deals with its subject through the
 image of bees.
 Valerius The tract Ad Rufinum (“To Rufinus”) is a work of humor
 that has been removed from its context and taken seriously. It was
 written by Walter Map (ca. 1140–1208/10), an English ecclesiastic
 with a rather secular sense of humor, and appeared in his De nugis
 curialium (“Jokes for Courtiers,” 3.3-5). It was supposedly an earlier
 effort to show the evils of marriage to a friend called Johannes
 Rufus, with Map using the pseudonyms Valerius for himself and
 Rufinus for his addressee. The work was then detached and circu
lated separately, and in this guise enjoyed much popularity among
 those who favored celibacy. Its spurious argumentation is based on
 both Classical authors and Jerome’s polemic against marriage enti
tled Against Jovinianus, but it contains much fictional elaboration.
 Vincent (of Beauvais, ca. 1190– ca. 1264) A Dominican friar who
 produced a massive encyclopedia of human knowledge. The
 whole work is known as the Greater Mirror (Speculum majus), and
 it is divided into four subsections, the first of which, the Mirror
 of Nature (Speculum naturale), covers the natural world, while the
 third, the Mirror of History (Speculum historiale), treats human
 history down to 1250.
52
 The Hammer of Witches
 William (of Auvergne, 1180/90–1249) A prolific writer on theologi
cal matters in the scholastic manner, and his The Universe (De uni
verso) discusses philosophical questions about the created universe.
 William Durand (Guilhelmus Durantis, 1231–1296) Important
 canonist whose Speculum iudiciale (“Judicial mirror”) was a
 comprehensive treatment of legal procedure that remained a
 standard reference for centuries.
 William of Montlezun (Guilhelmus de Monte Lauduno, †1343)
 Minor canonist.
 (c) Citations of canon law
 The very large number of references to canon law contained in the
 Malleus has resulted in a special treatment of them. The method of
 citing the texts used in the Malleus reflects medieval practice, which is
 somewhat different from modern usage. Since the Decretum of Gratian
 was the first authoritative book of canon law, it was generally cited
 without mention of the title at all. The sections of the first part are cited
 as “dist(inction),” while the “causes” of the second part are cited merely
 by number; then the relevant question is listed. For the later collections
 of decretals, these are cited by name(thoughthe Liberextra(Decretum)is
 referred to simply as the Extra), along with the relevant book and title. In
 modern texts, the canons are numbered sequentially, but the medieval
 practice was to quote the first word(s) of the text to indicate which
 specific canon was meant. In the translation, the titles are translated,
 since they could be understood even in the abbreviated way in which
 they were cited. On the other hand, the first word or words quoted from
 the canon itself were meaningless when quoted out of context, and so
 have been left untranslated. Instead of endlessly repeating the references
 for the commonly cited canons, I provide a list of the Latin words used
 to cite the canons with the corresponding numerical citations used in
 modern editions of the medieval canon law.
 A recta: Decretum 2.24.1.9
 Ab eo: Liber Sextus 2.15.6
 Accepimus: Liber Extra 5.34.16
 Accusatus: Liber Sextus 5.2.8
 Ad abolendam: Liber Extra 5.7.9
 Ad conditorem: Extravagants of John XXII 14.3
 Ad ejus: Decretum 1.5.4
 Afferte: Liber Extra 2.23.2
Alieni: Decretum 2.3.4.1
 Introduction
 53
 Anteriorum:19 Decretum 2.2.6.28
 Audi: Decretum 2.11.3.21
 Cessante: Liber Extra 2.28.60
 Constitueretur: see ut constitueretur
 Consuetudinis:20 Decretum 1.11.5
 Consuluisti: Decretum 2.2.5.20
 Cumcontumacia: Liber Sextus 5.2.7
 Cumdilectus: Liber Extra 5.34.11
 Cuminfirmitas: Liber Extra 5.38.13
 Cumlitteris: Liber Extra 2.20.33
 Daemonium sustinenti: Decretum 2.26.7.18
 De his vero: Decretum 2.33.2.12
 Decrevimus: Decretum 2.3.9.10
 Dixit: Decretum 2.32.1.221
 Dixit apostolus: Decretum 2.24.3.29
 Episcopi: Decretum 2.26.5.12
 Erubescant: Decretum 1.32.11
 Ex tenore: see Ex tuarum
 Ex tuarum: Liber Extra 5.21.2
 Excommunicamus: Liber Extra 5.7.13 and 15
 Excommunicamus itaque: Liber Extra 5.7.13
 Filii: Liber Sextus 5.2.3
 Gravem: Liber Extra 5.37.13
 Haec est fides: Decretum 2.24.14.1
 Haec tria: actually, the commentary to Decretum 2.3.7.1
 (Infamis), which begins with “tria sunt”
 Heresis: Decretum 2.24.3.27
 Igitur: Decretum 2.26.3.1
 Illud: Decretum 2.26.2.6
 In fidei favorem: Liber Sextus 5.2.5
 Indutiae: Decretum 2.3.3.3
 Inquisitionis: see Inquisitores
 Inquisitores: Liber Sextus 5.2.16
 Inter sollicitudines: Liber Extra 5.34.10
 Legi non debet: erroneous citation; perhaps Decretum 2.16.1.36 “Legi
 epistolam?”
 19 In the modern edition, § Biduum appears separately as Ch. 29.
 20 Consuetudinem in the official version.
 21 Ait in the modern text.
54
 The Hammer of Witches
 Licet Heli: Liber Extra 5.3.31
 Litteras: Liber Extra 2.23.14
 Menna: Decretum 2.2.5.7
 Monomachiam: Decretum 2.2.5.22
 Multorum querela: Clementines 5.3.1
 Nec miris: see Nec mirum
 Nec mirum: Decretum 2.26.5.14
 Nec qui fidem:22 Liber Extra 4.1.30
 Non licet: Decretum 2.26.5.3
 Non observabitis:23 Decretum 2.26.7.16
 Non oportet: Decretum 2.26.5.4
 Non potest: Decretum 2.2.7.24
 Nos in quemquem: Decretum 2.2.1.1
 Noverit: Liber Extra 5.39.49
 Per tuas: Liber Extra 2.20.48
 Pervenit: Liber Extra 2.21.5
 Presbyter: Decretum 2.2.4.524
 Primo: Decretum 2.2.1.13
 Priusquam: Decretum 1.28.4
 Pro dilectione: Decretum 3.2.95
 Proposuisti: Decretum 1.82.2
 Qualiter et quando: Extra 5.1.17 and 24
 Quanto: Extra 2.23.8
 Quantumlibet: Decretum 1.47.9
 Qui contra pacem: Decretum 2.24.1.32
 Qui illorum:25 Decretum 2.24.3.32
 Qui in ecclesia: Decretum 2.24.3.31
 Qui viderit: Decretum 2.32.5.13
 Quicumque: Decretum 2.23.7.1
 Quicumque (haereticos): Liber Sextus 5.2.2
 Quid ergo: Decretum 2.23.5. 6
 Quisquis nec:26 Decretum 2.2.8.3
 Quisquis per pecuniam: Decretum 2.1.1.5
 Quo jure: Decretum 2.8.1
 Quorundam: Decretum 1.34.1
 22 Is qui fidem in the official version.
 23 Non observetis in the official version.
 24 Strictly speaking this is in Q. 5, but this question is placed directly after Q. 3 because of the
 similarity in content.
 25 Qui aliorum in the official version.
 26 This should be quisquis ille. Perhaps there has been some confusion in citation, as the relevant
 section follows a sentence beginning with nec.
Introduction
 55
 Quotiens: Decretum 2.24.1.12
 Sacius: Decretum 2.32.4.8
 Saepe contingit: Clementines 5.11.2
 Sciendum: Decretum 26.4.2
 Si a sacerdotibus:27 Decretum 2.15.6.1
 Si aliquis: Liber Extra 5.12.5
 Si autem: Decretum 2.11.3.11
 Si de rebus: Decretum 2.23.7.2
 Si peccatum: Decretum 2.33.3 (“Penance”)
 Si per sortiarias (et maleficas artes): Decretum 2.33.1.4
 Si quando: Decretum 2.2.6.40
 Statuta: Liber Sextus 5.2.20
 Statutum: Liber Sextus 5.2. 9
 Statutum Felicis: Liber Sextus 5.2.15
 Super eo: Liber Sextus 5.2.4
 Super quibusdam: Liber Extra 5.40.26
 Testes: Decretum 2.4.2/3.1
 Tua: Liber Extra 3.2.8
 Ut commisi: Liber Sextus 5.2.12
 Ut constitueretur: Decretum 1.50.25
 Ut inquisitionis: Liber Sextus 5.2.18
 Ut officium: Liber Sextus 6.2.11
 Vergentis: Liber Sextus 5.2.10
 Verum: Liber Sextus 5.2.11.1
 (d) Outlining of the disputed questions
 To aid the reader in following the argument in disputed questions (dis
cussed above), the standard abbreviations (based on the Latin terminol
ogy) that are used in modern editions of Thomas Aquinas to mark the
 separate sections are added in square brackets at the start of the relevant
 section of the translation:
 [TT] = Titulus or “heading.”
 [AG1 etc.] = “argument” 1 etc.; designates the arguments adduced in
 favor of the false initial answer to the question.
 [SC1 etc.] = Sed contra or “to the contrary.”
 [CO] =Corpus or “body.”
 [RA1 etc.] = Ratio or “reason” 1 etc.; designates the rebuttals of the
 corresponding argument at the beginning.
 27 Should be si sacerdotibus.
56
 The Hammer of Witches
 (e) Remarks on certain words in the translation
 While I have onthewholetried to translate the Malleus with the normal
 diction of modern English (e.g. “incidental” for accidentalis, since “acci
dental” gives a rather different sense in regular usage), at times I have
 used words that give the flavor of the medieval thought of the work but
 maybesubject to confusion if the sense is not explained. Sometimes this
 is accomplished with a footnote in the text, but there are certain such
 terms that crop up so frequently that it is more efficient to give a single
 discussion of them at the outset.
 Breach of the Faith The Latin perfidia literally signifies the act of
 breaking one’s pledge or faith, and in the ecclesiastical context it
 refers to someone who has abandoned or corrupted the Christian
 faith. Since the English derivate “perfidy” normally lacks this reli
gious connotation, I have rendered it with a more literal phrase.
 Doctor In normal English, this signifies someone with recognized
 medical competence, but the Latin word from which it comes sim
ply signifies “teacher.” In an ecclesiastic context, the word describes
 anyrecognized orthodox authority (knowncollectively as the “doc
tors of the church”). To avoid confusion, medicus (the Latin term
 for a medical authority) is translated as “physician.”
 Experimentum This was a medieval term for a procedure that expe
rience has proven to be effective. The term often referred to a mag
ical “spell” but was also used in other spheres of life like medicine
 (the distinction between what we would call “magic” and “science”
 being far from clear). I have chosen to retain the Latinate form in
 order to avoid any possible confusion through use of the modern
 derivate “experiment,” which has become specialized to indicate
 a self-conscious (scientific) attempt to determine the efficacy of a
 procedure.
 Nigromancer, nigromancy This is the medieval form for the Greek
 term necromancy, which literally signifies “corpse divination,” a
 compound noun whose first element derives from the noun necros
 (“corpse”). Once knowledge of Greek was lost in Western Europe
 in the early medieval period, this element was confused with the
 Latin niger (“black”). Since the color black was associated with
 evil because of the blackness of night-time darkness, the use of the
 color to describe what was taken to be the evil practices of magic
 and witchcraft would have been perfectly natural, and the skills by
 which magic was practiced came to be known as the “black arts.”
Introduction
 57
 Given these associations with the black arts inherent in the form
 “nigromancy,” I have decided to retain the medieval version rather
 than adapt it to the modern “necromancy,” which has different
 connotations.
 Pronouncement This is the more idiomatic translation used for the
 Latin sententia. This term is usually translated with its English
 derivative “sentence,” which is normally restricted to the meaning
 “grammatically complete utterance” or “penal judgment in court.”
 The Latin word more broadly signifies a pronouncement uttered
 by a person possessing some sort of prestige or authority (hence,
 the legal meaning), and in the religious context designates a state
ment of recognized validity issued with reference to some aspect of
 doctrine or dogma, in contradistinction to an “opinion” (opinio),
 which signifies a similar statement that is rejected by the speaker
 as a recognized pronouncement.
 Sorcerer, sorceress, sorcery These words are used to translate the
 Latin maleficus, malefica and maleficium, the uniform terms used
 in the Malleus to describe malevolent magic and its practitioners.
 To some extent, “witch” and “witchcraft” would be the natural
 translations, but two considerations necessitated the choice of
 “sorcery” and related terms. First, there is no natural male equiv
alent in English to “witch,” and some sort of directly related male
 term is needed both because of the not infrequent discussion in the
 work of male practitioners and because the work often slips into
 the masculine gender when speaking in generalities.28 In addition,
 “witchcraft” similarly seems to be a female-oriented word, and so a
 gender-neutral term for practicing malevolent magic was called for.
 The terms related to “sorcerer” seemed best suited for the require
ments.Afurtherproblemarisesinreferencetothetermmaleficium,
 which can signify not simply the practice of magic in the abstract
 but aspecific instance of the practice. Furthermore, in this concrete
 usage, the term can designate both the physical item that causes
 the magical result and the physical manifestations in the victim.
 Since no single English word can convey these meanings, I have
 translated them respectively as “instrument of sorcery” and “spell of
 sorcery.”
 28 “Male witch” is too cumbersome and would be misleading in generalizing contexts. “Wizard”
 and “warlock” suffer from the same disadvantage, and in any case these words connote the
 practitioners of learned magic, who are most certainly not the people intended when the term
 maleficus is used.
58
 The Hammer of Witches
 Virtue In addition to the meaning of “moral excellence,” which
 is the normal meaning of the English derivate, the Latin virtus
 also has the sense of an inherent (and often secret) “power” or
 “capacity” to do something. The wordalways has this sense here, so
 that the “virtue of demons” has nothing to do with their morality.
 Work, to work The Latin noun opus and the derivate verb operari
 are basic elements in the medieval conception of religious action.
 These words refer to the “works” that bring merit or demerit in
 a person’s life, and while at times English idiom would seem to
 suggest other translations like “deed” or “to do,” I have regularly
 stuck to “work” in order to make the religious implications clear.
 (f) Difficulties with grammatical gender
 In Latin, the masculine and feminine genders are clearly distinguished,
 and the difference between the two forms is often marked by changing a
 single letter (e.g. malefici “sorcerers” vs. malefice “sorceresses” in medieval
 orthography). In the manuscript for the Nuremberg Handbook, which
 preserves the clean copy submitted by Institoris to the city council and
 gives direct evidence for his usage, Institoris frequently writes one gender
 (masculine orfeminine)andthenrepeatstheendingfortheothergender
 in superscript letters (e.g. maleficie for “sorcerers/sorceresses”). The first
 edition of the Malleus has no direct correspondence to this usage, but
 onefrequently finds masculine forms appearing where one wouldexpect
 feminine ones. Sometimes, the masculine forms seem to be generalizing
 (the masculine gender can be used in Latin when no one in particular is
 meant), and sometimes anomalous forms can be ascribed to incomplete
 adaptation of a source (especially Eymeric). But in some instances, the
 context clearly demands the feminine instead of the masculine form
 in the text, and perhaps the incorrect gender can be ascribed to the
 impossibility of rendering in printed format the sorts of superscript
 letters used in the Nuremberg Handbook (though clumsy composition
 can never be excluded as the cause). In any case, the misuse of gender
 is quite noticeable in the Latin, and no effort is made in the translation
 to correct these apparent errors, so that the translation reproduces the
 jarring sound of the original.
The Hammer of Witches

Structure of the text
 Author’s Justification of the “Hammer for Sorceresses”
 Text of the Apostolic Bull
 Approbation and Signatures of the Doctors of the Illustrious
 University of Cologne
 part one
 Question 1 (whether claiming that sorcerers exist is such
 a Catholic proposition that to defend the opposite
 view steadfastly is altogether heretical)
 Question 2 (whether it is a Catholic proposition to claim
 that in order to achieve an effect of sorcery the demon
 always has to co-operate with a sorcerer, or that one
 without the other (the demon without a sorcerer or
 the other way around) can produce such an effect)
 Question 3 (that it is a Catholic proposition to claim that
 humans can be begotten by incubus and succubus
 demons)
 Question 4 (it is a Catholic proposition to claim that the
 acts of incubus and succubus demons are appropriate
 for all uncleanspirits equally andwithoutdistinction)
 Question 5 (whether a Catholic can in any way hold the
 view that the origin and increase in number of
 sorcerers’ works derive from the influences of the
 heavenly bodies or from the superabundant evil of
 humans, and not from the filthy acts of incubus and
 succubus demons)
 Question 6 (why a larger number of sorcerers is found
 amongthedelicate female sex than amongmen;what
 page 69
 71
 74
 91
 105
 121
 133
 139
 61
62
 The Hammer of Witches
 159
 sort of women are more often to be found to be
 superstitious and sorceresses)
 Question 7 (whether sorceresses can turn the minds of
 men to love or hatred)
 Question 8 (whether sorceresses can impede the faculty
 to procreate)
 Question 9 (whether sorceresses work on male members
 through the illusion of conjuring as if these limbs
 were completely pulled out of the body)
 Question 10 (whether sorceresses work on humans by
 turning them into the shapes of beasts through the
 art of conjuring)
 Question 11 (that in various ways midwife sorceresses kill
 the fetuses in the womb and cause miscarriages, and
 when they do not do this, they offer the new-borns
 to demons)
 Question 12 (whether the endorsement of divine
 permission in connection with these works on the
 part of sorcerers is so Catholic a proposition that the
 opposite view (rejection of such permission) is
 altogether heretical)
 Question 13 (the two forms of divine permission justly
 granted by God, as a result of which the works of
 sorcerers are justly permitted, namely the Devil’s
 sinning as the originator of every evil and also the fall
 of the First Ancestors)
 Question 14 (whether the criminal deeds of the sorcerers
 surpass all the evil things that God permits and has
 permitted to happen fromthebeginningoftheworld
 untilthepresentdaybothintermsofinstancesofguilt
 and penalties and losses)
 Question 15 (that on account of the sins of sorceresses,
 innocent people are often affected by sorcery, though
 sometimes this is also because of their own sins)
 Question 16 (the foregoing truth is specifically explained
 by comparing the works of sorceresses to other
 varieties of superstition)
 Question 17 (explanation of the fourteenth, comparing
 the seriousness of the crime to any sins on the part of
 demons)
 173
 187
 194
 201
 211
 213
 222
 227
 236
 242
 247
Structure of the text
 63
 Question 18 (the method of preaching against the five
 arguments of laymen, by which various among them
 imagine that they prove that God does not permit
 suchpowertotheDevilandsorceressesinconnection
 with inflicting such acts of sorcery)
 part two
 Introductory Question (whether someone can be so
 benefited by good angels that he cannot be affected
 with sorcery by sorceresses in any of the methods
 described below)
 Question 1
 Chapter 1 (the different methods by which demons
 allure and entice the innocent through
 sorceresses to increase this form of breaking
 the Faith)
 Chapter 2 (the method of making a sacrilegious
 avowal)
 Chapter 3 (the method by which they are transferred
 in location from place to place)
 Chapter 4 (the method by which they subordinate
 themselves to incubus demons)
 Chapter 5 (the general way in which sorceresses
 practice their acts of sorcery through the
 Sacraments of the Church and on the way
 in which they impede the force of
 procreation or produce any other defects in any
 creations, except for the heavenly bodies)
 Chapter 6 (the method by which they impede
 the force of procreation)
 Chapter 7 (the way in which they take away
 male members)
 Chapter 8 (the methods by which they change
 humans into the shapes of wild beasts)
 Chapter9(howdemonsexistinsidebodiesandheads
 without causing harm when they work changes
 involving conjuring)
 Chapter 10 (the method by which demons
 sometimesinhabithumansinsubstancethrough
 the workings of sorceresses)
 250
 261
 262
 275
 281
 292
 302
 315
 320
 323
 330
 334
 343
64
 The Hammer of Witches
 Chapter 11 (the method by which they can inflict
 every kind of illness (in general terms about the
 more serious illnesses))
 Chapter 12 (the method by which they
 inflict other quite similar illnesses in particular
 on humans)
 Chapter13(themethodbywhichmidwifesorceresses
 inflict greater losses when they either kill babies
 orofferthemtodemonsbydedicatingthemwith
 a curse)
 Chapter 14 (the method by which sorceresses inflict
 various forms of harm on domestic animals)
 Chapter 15 (the method by which they stir
 up hailstorms and rainstorms and also make
 lightning strike humans and domestic animals)
 Chapters 16–18 (the three methods by which men
 andnotwomenarefoundtobetaintedwithacts
 of sorcery)
 Question 2
 Introductory Question (whether it is lawful to
 remove acts of sorcery through other acts of
 sorcery or through other unlawful means)
 Chapter 1 (ecclesiastical remedy against incubus and
 succubus demons)
 Chapter 2 (remedies for those who are affected with
 sorcery in the power of procreation)
 Chapter 3 (remedies for people affected by sorcery in
 terms of irregular love or hatred)
 Chapter 4 (remedies for those from whom the male
 member has been removed through the
 magical art and for the instances when humans
 are transformed into animals)
 Chapter 5 (remedies for those under siege as a result
 of sorcery)
 Chapter 6 (remedies through lawful exorcisms of
 the Church against any illnesses inflicted by
 sorceresses, and the method of exorcizing people
 affected by sorcery)
 Chapter 7 (remedies against hailstorms and for
 domestic animals affected by sorcery)
 353
 361
 366
 375
 380
 386
 398
 413
 421
 426
 431
 435
 443
 462
Structureofthetext 65
 Chapter8(certainhiddenremediesagainstcertain
 hiddenvexationsonthepartofdemons) 470
 partthree
 IntroductoryQuestion(whethersorcerersandthosewho
 abet,receiveanddefendthemaresubjectinsuch
 awaytotheecclesiasticalpassingofjudgmentby
 diocesansandtothecivilpassingofjudgment,that
 theinquisitorsofhereticaldepravitycanberelieved
 ofconductinganinquisitionintothem) 477
 Question1(themethodofinitiatingtheproceedings) 502
 Question2(thenumberofwitnesses) 508
 Question3(whethertheycanbeforcedtogiveanoath) 510
 Question4(thestatusofthewitnesses) 511
 Question5(whethermortalenemiesareallowedtogive
 testimony) 512
 Question6(howtheproceedingsaretobecontinued:
 howthewitnessesaretobeexaminedinthepresence
 offourotherpersons,andthetwowaysinwhichthe
 denouncedwomanistobequestioned) 513
 Question7(variousdoubtsareexplainedaboutthe
 previouslistsofquestionsandnegativeanswers,
 whetherthedenouncedwomanshouldbe
 imprisoned,andwhensheshouldbeconsideredto
 bemanifestlycaughtintheHeresyofSorceresses) 521
 Question8(whethersheshouldbeimprisonedandthe
 methodofarrest) 524
 Question9(whatshouldbedoneafterthearrestand
 whetherthenamesofthosegivingdepositionsshould
 bemadeknowntoher) 526
 Question10(howlinesofdefensearetobegrantedalong
 withtheassignmentofanadvocate) 529
 Question11(whattheadvocatewilldowhenthenames
 ofthewitnessesarenotrevealedtohim) 532
 Question12(furtherexplanationofhowmortalenmity
 istobeinvestigated) 536
 Question14(thethingsthatthejudgehastoconsider
 beforesettingoutthelistofquestionsintheprison
 andtorturechamber) 541
66 TheHammerofWitches
 Question15(thecontinuationofthetortureandthe
 stratagemsandsignsbywhichthejudgecan
 recognizeasorceress,andhowheoughttoforearm
 himselfagainsttheiractsofsorcery,andhowthey
 shouldbeshaved,andthesituationwheretheyhave
 hiddendevicesforsorcery,alongwithvarious
 explanationsofhowtoblockthesorceryofsilence) 548
 Question16(thetimeandsecondmethodofquestioning) 556
 Question17(thevulgarformofpurgation,andespecially
 theexaminationbyglowingiron,towhichsorceresses
 appeal) 560
 Question18(thedefinitivesentenceassuchandhowit
 shouldbepassed) 565
 Question19(howmanymethodscreateasuspicionthat
 resultsinthepassingofsentence) 568
 Question20(themethodofpassingsentence) 576
 Question21(themethodofsentencingadenounced
 womanwhomerelyhasabadreputation) 579
 Question22(themethodofpassingsentenceonawoman
 withabadreputationwhoistobeexposedto
 questioningundertorture) 583
 Question23(themethodofpassingsentenceona
 denouncedwomanwhoislightlysuspected) 587
 Question24(themethodofpassingsentenceonawoman
 vehementlysuspected) 590
 Question25(themethodofpassingsentenceona
 denouncedwomanwhoisviolentlysuspected) 595
 Question26(themethodofpassingsentenceona
 denouncedwomanwhois suspectedandhasabad
 reputation) 602
 Question27(themethodofpassingsentenceonawoman
 whohasconfessedheresybutispenitent) 606
 Question28(themethodofpassingsentenceonawoman
 whohasconfessedheresybutisrelapsed,though
 repentant) 611
 Question29(themethodofpassingsentenceonawoman
 whohasconfessedheresybutisimpenitentandyet
 notrelapsed) 616
 Question30(thewomanwhohasconfessedheresyand
 relapsedandisimpenitent) 618
Structure of the text
 67
 Question 31 (the person who is convicted and caught, but
 denies everything)
 Question 32 (the person who is convicted but who is a
 fugitive or contumaciously absents himself)
 Question33(howtopasssentenceonapersondenounced
 by another sorceress who has been or is to be burned
 to ashes)
 Question34(themethodofpassingsentenceonasorceress
 whobreaks acts of sorcery, and on sorceress midwives
 and sorcerer archers)
 Question35(themethodsofsentencinganysorcererswho
 lodge frivolous or unjust appeals)
 621
 626
 633
 640
 648

2A
 author’s justification of the “hammer for
 sorceresses”
 IN themidst ofthedisastersofthecollapsingsecularworld,which,
 alas, we do not so much read of as experience in various places, the
 Ancient Rising Sun,1 who was perverted through the ineluctable dam
age causedbyhisdownfall,hasneverceased,sincethebeginning,totaint
 the Church, which the New Rising Sun,2 the human Jesus Christ, has
 made fruitful through the shedding of His own Blood, with the poison
 of various heresies. Nonetheless, he attacks through these heresies at that
 time in particular, when the evening of the world declines towards its
 setting and the evil of men swells up,3 since he knows in great anger, as
 John bears witness in the Book of Apocalypse [12:12], that he has little
 time remaining.4 Hence, he has also caused a certain unusual heretical
 perversity to grow up in the land of the Lord– a Heresy, I say, of Sor
ceresses, since it is to be designated by the particular gender over which
 he is known to have power. He contrives these things through countless
 forms of assault, and this one is carried out in the form of individual
 works. This is clearly daunting to conceive of, exceedingly loathsome to
 Godandhateful to all believers in Christ, since in accordance with their
 agreement with Hell and treaty with Death5 they submit themselves to
 the foulest slavery in return for fulfilling their filthy acts of depravity.
 This heresy also consists of losses that are inflicted in the form of daily
 misfortunes on humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth
 through the permission of God and with the co-operation of demons.
 In the midst of these evils, we Inquisitors, Jacobus Sprenger together
 with the very dear associate6 delegated by the Apostolic See for the exter
mination of so destructive a heresy, though very insignificant among the
 ProfessorsofHolyTheologyintheOrderofMilitantPreachers,nonethe
less considered with a pious and grieving mind what remedy or solace
 should be administered to people as a salutary cure, and thought it right 2B
 to set our shoulders to this work7 before all other remedies, confident
 that by the mellifluous generosity of Him Who gives to all plentifully
 and Who, having taken the pebble from the altar with tongs, touches
 1 I.e., Lucifer (cf. Isaiah 14:12).
 2 For this conception, see Luke 1:78.
 3 For this notion, see 16C.
 4 Theideaisthatwhilethedevilhasalwaysattemptedtounderminethechurchthroughpromoting
 heresy, this sort of attack increases as the end of the world approaches (see 138C).
 5 Allusion to Isaiah 28:15, 18, where a “treaty with death and pact with Hell” is mentioned.
 6 I.e., Institoris.
 7 I.e., the Malleus Maleficarum.
70
 The Hammer of Witches 2B
 the lips of the imperfect and cleans them,8 we will bring everything to
 the desired conclusion.
 In the works of men nothing is done that is so useful and lawful that
 no calamity can be inflicted on it, and our meagre intellects are also
 unable to achieve the perfection of truth unless they are greatly polished
 with the file of someone else’s depravity, but it is with confidence that
 weapproach the struggle with him who thinks that we are to be rebuked
 onaccount of the novelty of the work. Let him know that this very work
 is at once new and old, short and at the same time lengthy. It is old
 certainly in content and authority but new in the grouping of its parts
 and in their being brought together; short because of the abridgment of
 a very large number of authors but nonetheless long because of the vast
 extent of the subject matter and the impenetrable evil of the sorceresses.
 Wedonotsaythisarrogantly, belittling the writings of the other authors
 or boastfully and vainly praising our work, since from our intellect little
 or virtually nothing has been added, and hence this work is considered
 to belong not to us but to those men from whosewritings the individual
 sections have generally been woven together.
 For this reason we have likewise undertaken neither to write poems
 nor to drawoutlofty theories,9 but in adopting the procedure of excerp
tors in honor of the highest Trinity and of their individual Unity
 with reference to the three major divisions (beginning, development
 and end), naming the treatise the “Hammer for Sorceresses,” we are
 undertaking the task of compiling the work for an associate10 and the
 implementation for those whom the most severe judgment threatens,11
 because it is obvious that God has set them in authority for the purpose
 of punishing the wicked and of praising the good. To Him be all honor
 and glory for ages of ages! Amen.
 8 Reference to Isaiah 6:6–7. After seeing God, Isaiah remarks upon his misfortune in seeing God
 when his lips are unclean through contamination from his unclean neighbors, whereupon a
 seraph takes coal from the altar and cleans Isaiah’s lips, thereby relieving him of his guilt. When
 God then rhetorically asks who should be his prophet, Isaiah feels free to offer his services. The
 implication is that God has likewise granted to the authors of the text authorization to speak
 on his behalf.
 9 The contrast here is best understood in terms of contemporary university life, where there was
 competition between the arts curriculum, which was associated by its enemies with “poets”
 (meaning all authors of Classical Latin) on the one hand and theology on the other. The sense,
 then, is that the authors are indulging in the composition neither of classicizing poetical works
 nor of abstruse theological treatises. Their work has a more practical purpose.
 10 Presumably, an ecclesiastic; see 2A, where Institoris is characterized as Sprenger’s “associate,” and
 108C, where the Inquisitor of Como is called “our associate.”
 11 I.e., the secular authorities, the phrase coming from the Book of Wisdom (omitted in Protestant
 Bibles) 6:6.
Papal Bull 1A∗–1B∗
 1A*
 71
 the text of the apostolic bull against the heresy
 of sorceresses, together with the approbation
 and subscription of the doctors of the
 beneficent university of cologne concerning the
 following treatise, begins with good fortune
 BISHOP Innocent,12 servant of the servants of God, to preserve the
 memory of this act. Desiring with the greatest yearning, as the care
 dictated by pastoral concern requires, that in Our times in particular
 the Catholic Faith should be strengthened and flourish, and that every
 form of heretical depravity should be driven far from the borders of the
 faithful, We readily proclaim and grant anew those provisions through
 which this pious desire of Ours may receive the longed-for outcome,
 and after all errors have as a result been eradicated through the ministry
 of Our working as if through a repair effected by a foresightful worker,
 the zeal and observance of this Faith may be pressed more firmly into
 the hearts of the faithful.
 It is not without great vexation that it has recently come to Our
 hearing that in somepartsofUpperGermany,aswellasintheprovinces,
 cities, lands, places and dioceses of Mainz, Cologne, Trier, Salzburg
 and Bremen, very many persons of both sexes have forgotten their own
 salvation and deviated fromtheCatholicFaith.Committingabuseswith
 incubus and succubus demons, they have no fear of using their incan
tations, chants and conjurations and other unspeakable superstitions
 and acts of sorcery, as well as excesses, crimes and misdeeds, in order to
 bring it about that the offspring of women, the progeny of animals, the
 produce of the earth, the grapes of the vines and the fruits of the trees
 as well as men, women, work animals, cows, sheep and other animals
 of various kinds, and also the vines, orchards, fields, pastures, wheat,
 grain, and other crops of the earth are killed, suffocated and wiped out.
 They also afflict and torture these men, women, work animals, cows,
 sheep and animals with terrible pains and torments, both internal and
 external, and keep the men from fathering children and the women 1B*
 from conceiving by impeding their ability to render the conjugal act to
 each other. For this purpose, with sacrilegious speech they renounce the
 Faith that they received by receiving Holy Baptism, and they commit
 and carry out very many other unspeakable acts, excesses and crimes.
 TheydothisattheinstigationoftheEnemyoftheHumanRace,andthe
 result is that their own souls are endangered, God’s majesty is offended,
 12 I.e., Pope Innocent VIII.
72
 The Hammer of Witches 1B∗–2A∗
 andascandalousexampleissetforverymanypeople.Wehavealsoheard
 that while Our beloved sons Henricus Institoris and Jacobus Sprenger,
 who belong to the Order of Preachers13 and are Professors of Theol
ogy, were appointed by Apostolic Letter as Inquisitors into Heretical
 Depravity and still exercise this capacity, the former in the aforemen
tioned parts of Upper Germany in which these provinces, cities, lands,
 dioceses and other places are considered to be included, the latter in
 certain regions along the Rhine, nonetheless a certain number of clergy
 and laymen in those regions, seeking to know more than they ought
 to,14 feel no shame at claiming obstinately, that because in the letter
 of appointment these aforementioned provinces, cities, dioceses, lands
 and other places, and these persons and excesses were not mentioned
 specifically by name, those places are by no means contained within
 those regions. On this basis, they argue that it is not permissible for the
 aforementioned Inquisitors to carry out the office of such an inquisition
 in the aforementioned provinces, cities, dioceses, lands and places, and
 that they should not be allowed to punish, imprison, and correct these
 persons for the aforementioned excesses and crimes. For this reason, in
 the aforementioned provinces, cities, dioceses, lands and places, such
 excesses and crimes remain unpunished, not without the obvious loss
 of these souls and the forfeit of their Eternal Salvation. Accordingly, it
 is Our wish– and to this end We are especially impelled by Our zeal
 for the Faith– to get rid of any impediments by which the execution of
 these Inquisitors’ office can in any way be impeded and, as is incumbent
 upon Our office, to use suitable remedies to ensure that the stain of
 heretical depravity and of other such excesses will not spread its poisons
 2A* and cause the destruction of other innocents, Our purpose being that
 the aforementioned provinces, cities, dioceses, lands and places in these
 regions of Upper Germany should not for this reason lack the Office of
 the Inquisition. Therefore, by Apostolic authority We ordain through
 the text of the present letter that these Inquisitors are authorized to carry
 out the Office of the Inquisition in those places and to correct, imprison
 and punish these persons for the aforementioned excesses and crimes in
 all regards and by all means, just as if such provinces, cities, dioceses,
 landsandplacesandsuchpersonsandexcesseshadbeenspecificallymen
tioned by nameintheaforementioned letter. As a further precaution, by
 extendingtheaforementionedletterandappointmenttosuchprovinces,
 13 Official designation of the Dominican Order.
 14 A reference to Romans 12:3, where Paul enjoins members of the church in Rome not to be
 arrogant.
Papal Bull 2A∗–2B∗
 73
 cities, dioceses, lands and places as well as to such persons and crimes,
 Wegrant anew by the same authority to the aforementioned Inquisitors
 full and unrestricted power to carry out the office of such inquisition in
 the aforementioned provinces, cities, dioceses, lands and places against
 whatever persons, of whatever status and pre-eminence they maybe,and
 to correct, imprison, punish and fine according to their demerits those
 persons whom they will find culpable in connection with the foregoing.
 They may do so together, or one of them may do so by summoning
 to act as a second15 Our beloved son Johannes Gremper,16 cleric of the
 diocese of Constance and Master in the arts, who is their notary, or
 any other public notary who is to be deputized temporarily by one or
 both of them. They are also lawfully and without restriction entitled
 to propound and preach the Word of God to the congregation in the
 individual parochial churches of such provinces whenever this will be
 beneficial and they decide to do so. They may carry out and perform
 each and every other act necessary and suitable in connection with and
 concerning the foregoing.
 Nonetheless, We give to Our venerable brother, the Bishop of Stras
burg,17 the written Apostolic order that he should, either personally or
 throughanothercleric or clerics, make the foregoing public when, where
 and as often as he will recognize this to be beneficial and he will have 2B*
 beenlawfullyaskedtodosobytheseInquisitorsoroneofthem.Heisnot
 to permit them to be harassed by any authority or impeded in any other
 waywhatsoever by anypeople in connection with this in violation of the
 text of the aforementionedandthepresentletter, restraining through the
 sentences, censures and punishments of excommunication, suspension
 andinterdict orwhatevermorefearsomepunishmentshewillthinkright
 anyrebelliousharassers,impedersandcontradictors,ofwhateverdignity,
 status, rank, pre-eminence, nobility, excellence or condition they are and
 by whatever privilege of exception they are protected, all right to appeal
 being disregarded. Whenever it will be necessary, by Our authority he
 is to cause these sentences to be aggravated and aggravated again in
 the lawful proceedings that he must follow in these matters, invoking
 the aid of the secular arm for this purpose if necessary. No obstacle is
 provided by the foregoing or by any contrary Apostolic decisions and
 15 I.e., to make sure that two men are present in an official capacity in order to guarantee the
 legality of the proceedings.
 16 Johann Gremper of Laufenburg was an Imperial notary.
 17 Albrecht of Bavaria (in office 1478–1506). The reason for the specific injunction to him is
 unknown. Presumably, he had already obstructed proceedings involving sorceresses or was
 expected to do so.
74
 The Hammer of Witches 2B∗–3A∗
 commands whatsoever, or by the Holy See having perchance granted
 to some people in common or separately the indulgence that they may
 not be interdicted, suspended or excommunicated by Apostolic letters
 that do not make a full, explicit and word-for-word mention of such
 indulgence, or by any other indulgence of said See– whether general or
 specific, of whatever thrust it may be– which could in any way impede
 or postpone the effect of such a grace18 by not being mentioned in the
 present letter or inserted in its entirety in it, and regarding which there
 must be specific mention of each individual throughout the text of Our
 letter. Accordingly, let no one be permitted to violate this text contain
ing Our declaration, extension, grant and order or oppose it with rash
 boldness. If someone does presumetoattemptthis, let him knowthathe
 will incur the outrage of Omnipotent God and of St. Peter and St. Paul,
 His Apostles. Issued in Rome at St. Peter’s, in the year of the Incarnation
 of the Lord 1484, on the Nones [5th] of December, in the first year of
 Our Pontificate.
 3A*
 the approbation of the following treatise and
 the signatures thereunto of the doctors of the
 illustrious university of cologne follows in the
 form of a public document19
 INthename ofOurLordJesusChrist.Amen.Letallthosewhowill
 read, see or hear the present public document know that in the year
 since the Birth of Our Lord 1487, in the fifth indiction,20 on Saturday,
 the nineteenth day of May, at five in the afternoon or thereabouts, in
 the third year of the Pontificate of Our Lord, the Most Holy Father in
 Christ, Lord Innocent VIII, by Divine Providence Pope, in the presence
 of my notary public and of the witnesses written below who had been
 specifically summoned and asked for this purpose, the venerable and
 religious21 Brother Henricus Institoris, Professor of Holy Theology and
 member of the Order of Preachers, who was appointed as Inquisitor
 into Heretical Depravity by the Holy See along with his colleague, the
 venerableandreligiousBrotherJacobusSprenger,alsoaProfessorofHoly
 18 I.e., the grant of authority to Institoris and Sprenger.
 19 A “public document” was one that met the specifications necessary for it to be considered valid
 in official contexts.
 20 I.e., the fifth year of the indiction, which is a recurring cycle of fifteen-year periods that dates
 back to the Roman Empire and was used in dating ecclesiastical documents.
 21 I.e., one who has undertaken a vow as a monk or friar, which is called religio in Latin.
Approbation 3A∗–3B∗
 75
 Theology and Prior of the Convent of Preachers in Cologne, explained
 and stated on behalf of himself and his aforementioned colleague that
 the present Supreme Pontiff (the aforementioned Lord Innocent the
 Pope) by a Bull Patent entrusted to these Inquisitors, the aforemen
tioned Henricus and Jacobus, members of the Order of Preachers and
 Professors of Holy Theology, gave permission to conduct an inquisition
 by Apostolic authority into any heresies whatsoever, but especially into
 the Heresy of Sorceresses, which is flourishing in the present day, par
ticularly throughout five archbishoprics, namely Mainz, Cologne, Trier,
 Salzburg and Bremen, granting them full permission to conduct pro
ceedings against such people until their final extermination according to
 the text oftheApostolicBullthathehadinhishandsandthatwaswhole,
 intact, unharmed and unvitiated and lacked any grounds for suspicion
 at all. The text of this Bull begins, “Bishop Innocent, servant of the
 servants of God, to preserve the memory of this act. Desiring with the 3B*
 greatest yearning, as the care dictated by pastoral concern requires, that
 in Our times in particular the Catholic Faith should be strengthened
 and flourish,” and it ends, “Issued in Rome at St. Peter’s, in the year of
 the Incarnation of the Lord 1484, on the Nones [5th] of December, in
 the first year of Our Pontificate.”
 SomecuratesofsoulsandpreachersoftheWordofGodfeelnoshame
 at claiming and affirming in their sermons to the congregation that sor
ceresses do not exist or that they are unable by any working to bring
 about an effect resulting in harm to creatures, and as a result of these
 imprudent sermons the ability to punish such sorceresses through the
 secular arm is cut off, which results in a very great increase in the number
 of sorceresses and in the strengthening of that heresy, and for this reason,
 the aforementioned Inquisitors, in their desire to block every danger and
 attack with all their strength, put together a certain treatise, not so much
 by thorough study as by hard work. In it, they did not so much strive to
 f
 ight back the ignorance of such preachers in order to save the Catholic
 Faith as toil to exterminate the sorceresses by explaining the appropriate
 methods of sentencing and punishing them in accordance with the text
 of the aforementioned Bull and the regulations of the Holy Canons,
 thereby achieving their extermination. It is consonant with reason that
 those things that are done on behalf of the common good should also be
 confirmedthrough the commonapprovaloftheDoctors, and therefore,
 lest the aforementioned poorly educated curates and preachers think,
 in their ignorance of Holy Scripture, that the aforesaid treatise, which
 was composed in the manner mentioned above, is poorly supported by
76
 The Hammer of Witches 3B∗–4A∗
 the determinations and pronouncements of the Doctors, they offered
 it for examination and comparison against Scripture to the illustrious
 University of Cologne or rather to certain Professors of Holy Theology,
 in order that if any things were found to be worthy of censure or incom
patible with the Catholic Truth, they should be refuted by the judgment
 of those Professors, and that those things found to be compatible with
 the Catholic Truth should be approved. This was in fact done in the
 ways written below.
 4A*
 First, the outstanding Lord Lambertus de Monte22
 signed with his own hand, as follows. I, Lambertus de Monte, hum
ble Professor of Holy Theology, temporary Dean of the Faculty of Holy
 Theology at Cologne, proclaim by this, my own hand, that this three
part treatise, which has been examined by me and carefully compared
 against Scripture with regard to its first two parts, contains nothing, in
 my humble judgment at least, that is contrary to the pronouncements
 of the non-erroneous philosophers, or against the Truth of the Holy,
 Catholic and Apostolic Faith, or against the determinations of the Doc
tors approved or admitted by the Holy Church, and that the third part
 should certainly be upheld and approved in regard to the punishments
 of those heretics whom it treats, in that it does not contradict Holy
 Canons, and also because of the personal experiences described in this
 treatise, which are believed to be true because of the reputation of such
 great men, particularly since they are inquisitors. It should be ensured
 that this treatise will become known to learned and zealous men, who
 will then, on the basis of it, provide various healthy and appropriate
 advice for the extermination of sorceresses, and likewise to the curates
 of churches, that is, to devout and conscientious ones, since on the
 basis of their learning it will be possible for the hearts of those subject23
 to these curates to be incited to hate such a baneful heresy. This will
 serve two purposes: protecting the good on the one hand and prevent
ing the evil from having any excuse and punishing them on the other.
 In this way, mercy will become clearer than daylight in the case of the
 good and justice in the case of the evil, and in all regards God, Him
self being excellent, will be magnified, to Whom be the praise and the
 glory.
 22 Lambertofs’Heerenberg,themostprominentfollowerofThomasandAristotleattheUniversity
 of Cologne. He also held numerous important administrative positions at the university.
 23 Medieval theory held that in church matters the members of the church were “subject” to
 governance by their ecclesiastical superiors in the same way that people were subject to their
 secular rulers in their temporal affairs.
Approbation 4A∗–4B∗
 77
 Next, the venerable Master Jacobus de Stralen24 also signed to
 this effect with his own hand in the following manner. I, Jacobus de
 Stralen, the least important Professor of Holy Theology, have inspected
 theaforementionedtreatise,andmyopinionconformsinallregardswith
 the statements made above by the venerable Our Master Lambertus de
 Monte,DeanofSacredTheology.TothisIbearwitnesswiththiswriting
 of my own hand, for the praise of God.
 Similarly, the outstanding Master Andreas de Ochsenfurt25 also
 signed with his ownhand,asbelow: Itseemstome,AndreasdeOchsen- 4B*
 furt, the newest Professor of Holy Theology, that a similar opinion must
 be given regarding the content of the treatise that has been submit
ted, at least as far as the surface impression that it gave is concerned.26
 This I attest with the writing of my own hand, to promote the purpose
 expressed in it.
 Then the outstanding Master Thomas de Scotia27 similarly signed
 with his own hand, as follows. I, Thomas de Scotia, Doctor of Holy
 Theology (however unworthy), have an opinion that in all regards is
 in conformity with the previous Our venerable Masters concerning the
 content of the aforementioned treatise, which has been examined by me.
 This I attest with my own hand.
 Next, a second signing against the aforementioned incautious preach
ers was made in the following way. First, articles were set out as follows.
 1) The Masters of Holy Theology written below commend the Inquisi
tors into Heretical Depravity appointed by the authority of the Apos
tolic See in conformity with the Canons, and urge that they think it
 right to carry out their office zealously.
 2) The proposition that acts of sorcery can happen with God’s per
mission through sorcerers or sorceresses when the Devil works with
 them is not contrary to the Catholic Faith, but consonant with the
 statements of Holy Scripture. Indeed, according to the pronounce
ments of the Holy Doctors it is necessary to admit that such acts can
 sometimes happen.
 3) It is therefore erroneous to preach that acts of sorcery cannot happen,
 because in this way preachers impede, to the extent that they can,
 the pious work of the inquisitors, to the prejudice of the salvation of
 24 Jacobus Straelen of Noetlinck.
 25 Andreas Schermer of Ochsenfurt.
 26 Note how qualified this approval is. Andreas would seem to be allowing himself a lot of leeway
 if the Malleus was later determined to be erroneous.
 27 Thomas Lyel of Scotland.
78
 The Hammer of Witches 4B∗–5A∗
 souls. Nonetheless, secrets that are heard at any time by inquisitors
 should not be revealed to everyone.
 4) All princes and Catholics should be urged to think it right to assist
 such pious vows on the part of the Inquisitors in defense of the Holy
 Catholic Faith.
 Next, the Doctors of the aforementioned Faculty of Theology, who
 are written above and below, signed with their own hands in the fol
lowing manner, as I, Arnold, the notary mentioned below, heard from
 the report under oath of the respectable Johannes Vorda28 of Mecheln,
 sworn Beadle29 of the illustrious University of Cologne, who reported
 this to me, and saw on the basis of the appearance of the handwriting
 above and below.
 5A*
 I, Lambertus de Monte, humble Professor of Holy Theology and
 temporary Dean, have opinions as is written above, this hand of mine
 serving as witness.
 I, Jacobus de Stralen, the least important Professor of Holy The
ology, have an opinion as is written above. This I attest with my own
 hand.
 I, Udalricus Kridwiss de Esslingen,30 newest Professor of Holy
 Theology, think, by this writing of my own hand, that one should have
 an opinion as is written above.
 I, Conradus de Campis,31 most humble Professor of Holy Theol
ogy, also concur with my elders in this judgment, as above.
 I, Cornelius de Breda,32 the least important Professor of Holy
 Theology, have an opinion as is written above. This I attest with my
 own hand.
 I, Thomas de Scotia, Professor of Holy Theology, though unwor
thy, have an opinion in agreement with the aforementioned venerable
 professors, my own hand serving as witness.
 I, Theodericus de Bunwell,33 most lowly Professor of Holy The
ology, have opinions as is written above by my aforementioned masters.
 This I attest with my own hand.
 In affirmation of the aforementioned articles, I, Andreas de
 Ochsenfurt, Professor of the Faculty of Holy Theology and least
 28 Johann V¨ orde.
 29 Secretary of the rector or dean of the university, the beadle normally certified internal university
 documents.
 30 Ulrich Kridweiss of Esslingen.
 31 Konrad Vorn of Kampen.
 32 Cornelius Pays of Breda.
 33 Dietrich of Balveren (Bummel).
Approbation 5A∗–5B∗
 79
 importantofthetheologiansoftheCollegeoftheUniversityofCologne,
 hold a judgment that conforms with that of the venerable Our Masters,
 my teachers.
 Last and finally, the said venerable friar, Brother Henricus Insti
toris, Inquisitor, had and held in his hands a certain other parchment
 letter34 of the most serene King of the Romans35 sealed with his round
 red seal, which hung down attached to a parchment tag impressed into
 a background of grey wax, this letter being whole, intact, unvitiated,
 uncancelled and not suspect in any part of it, and altogether free of 5B*
 any fault. Its sense was that to expedite this business involving the Faith,
 the same Most Serene Lord, the aforementioned King of the Romans,
 wished and wishes, as a most Christian prince, to protect and uphold
 this same Apostolic Bull mentioned above, takes these Inquisitors under
 his complete protection, ordering and commanding each and every sub
ject of the Roman Empire to render all favor and assistance to these
 Inquisitors and otherwise to act in the manner that is more fully con
tained and included in the letter. The beginning and end of this princely
 letter are noted hereafter in the following way: “Maximilian, by the
 favor of divine clemency King of the Romans, ever August, Archduke
 of Austria, Duke of Burgundy, Lorraine, Brabant, Limburg, Luxemburg
 and Gelder, Count of Flanders” and so on, ending, “Issued in Our town
 of Brussels under Our seal, on the sixth day of the month of November,
 in the year of the Lord 1486, the first year of Our Reign.”
 About and concerning each and every item of the aforementioned,
 the said venerable friar, Brother Henricus, Inquisitor, asked of me,
 the notary public written above and below, on behalf of himself and his
 aforementioned colleague, that one or more public documents be made
 and completed in the better format. These proceedings were transacted
 in Cologne in the house of residence of the aforementioned venerable
 Master Lambertus de Monte, which is placed under the immunity36
 of the Church of St. Andrew, in the room of business and study down
stairs in the same year of the Lord, indiction, month, day, hour and
 pontificate as above, in the presence there of the aforementioned Master
 34 This does not survive.
 35 Maximilian, the son of the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III, had been elected King of the
 Romans (that is, Holy Roman Emperor elect, his father being the last emperor to be crowned
 by the pope in Rome) in 1486, and ruled both in Austria in lands assigned to him by his father
 and in the Lowlands as the husband of the heiress of the Duke of Burgundy.
 36 I.e., the residence was legally protected by the privileges of the church, thereby enjoying exemp
tion from municipal taxation and jurisdiction. As a canon of this church, Lambertus de Monte
 had his residence in this house.
80
 The Hammer of Witches 5B∗–6A∗
 Lambertus andJohannesthebeadle, as well as the respectable gentlemen
 NicholasCuperdeVenrath,theswornnotaryofthevenerableCuria37 of 6A*
 Cologne, and of Christianus Wintzensis of Euskirchen,38 cleric of the
 Diocese of Cologne, all having been asked and requested as trustworthy
 witnesses for the aforementioned.
 Whereas I, Arnold Kolich of Euskirchen, sworn cleric of Cologne, was present,
 together with the named witnesses, for each and every item of the foregoing as
 they were being done and performed in the manner mentioned above, seeing
 them be done in this way, and heard of them from the report of the beadle as is
 stated above, I have by myownhandwrittenandformallydrawnupthepresent
 public document, and then completed, signed and published it, rendering it in
 the public format, and sealing it with my customary and usual seal and name,
 as asked and requested to do, in confirmation and witness to each and every
 item among the foregoing.
 37 I.e., the administrative apparatus of the archbishop.
 38 Christian Wintzen.
Table of Contents 3A–B
 81
 THEREFORE, regarding the Bull very recently issued by 3A
 Innocent VIII against the Heresy of Sorceresses, forty-eight39questions
 are to be discussed. These are to explain three things in particular: first,
 the origin, second, the development, third, the final cure; the origin in
 terms of their increase in number; the development in terms of their
 carrying out works; and the final cure in terms of wiping out this heresy.
 Part One is about the three elements that co-operate to bring about
 sorcery, namely, the demon, the sorcerer and the permission of God.40
 It contains eighteen questions, of which four are about the power of
 the demon, the rest about their41 works. Question One42 is also an
 introduction to the entire work: whether the claim that sorceresses exist
 is considered so Catholic a proposition that it is altogether heretical
 to defend the opposite steadfastly. Question Two43 is whether it is a
 Catholic proposition to claim that a demon always has to co-operate
 with a sorcerer to bring about the effects of sorcery or that the one is
 able to bring about such an effect without the assistance of the other.
 Question Three44 is whether it is a Catholic proposition to claim that 3B
 incubus and succubus demons can produce such effects that real people
 are in fact begotten by these demons in order to create new sorcerers
 and increase their numbers. Question Four45 is whether it is a Catholic
 proposition to claim that the action of incubus and succubus demons
 is appropriate only for the lowest spirits. Question Five46 is whether a
 Catholic can in any way hold the view that the origin and increase in
 numberofsorcerers’worksresultsfromtheinfluencesofheavenlybodies
 without the assistance of demons or from separate substances47 such as
 the movers of the heavenly orbs or from the evil of humans when some
 virtue of the stars co-operates upon the utterance of expressions and
 words. Question Six48 pertains to sorcerers co-operating with demons:
 howit is that womenarefoundtobetainted with this heresy more often
 than men are. What sort of women are involved more than others is
 39 The subsequent description of the contents lists (inaccurately, as the second half of Bk. 2 is
 ignored) seventy-one questions; the reason for the miscount here is not clear.
 40 See 20B.
 41 I.e. sorceresses.
 42 7A–13D.
 43 13D–20B.
 44 21B–26D.
 45 27A–29D.
 46 30A–39C.
 47 A term of scholastic philosophy indicating substances that are separate from physical matter,
 e.g., angels.
 48 39D–45A.
82
 The Hammer of Witches 3B–D
 3C
 3D
 explained in the following five questions.49 Question Seven50 is whether
 sorceresses are able, through the virtue of demons, to turn the minds
 of humans to irregular hatred or love, and about the way to propound
 this topic in sermons to the congregation. Question Eight51 is whether
 they are able to impede the power of procreation (the sexual act), with a
 certain incidental question as to why this act is sometimes impeded with
 respect to one person and not another. Question Nine52 is whether they
 take away male members through a magical illusion as if these members
 have been torn from the body, with certain other related difficulties.
 QuestionTen53 iswhethertheyareabletochangehumansintotheshapes
 of animals, withanotherincidental difficulty. Question Eleven54 is about
 midwife sorceresses, who kill fetuses in the womb and outside in various
 ways. QuestionTwelve55 pertains to the permission of God, whichhasto
 co-operate with the demon and the sorceress: whether it is so Catholic
 a proposition to commend divine permission in connection with the
 deeds of sorceresses, that the opposite position, that is, the rejection
 of the permission of God, is altogether heretical. Question Thirteen56
 is also incidental and concerns the two sorts of God’s permission– in
 the fall of the Devil and of the First Ancestors– on the basis of which
 all acts of sorcerers are justly permitted. Question Fourteen is whether,
 despite the foregoing, the sins of sorcerers are more serious than those
 of the evil angels and of the First Ancestors.57 (The whole topic may be
 preached, with the explanation that they deserve, more than any other
 malefactors in the world, the most severe penalties in the present life
 too.)58 Question Fifteen59 is whether the innocent are often affected with
 sorcery because of the sins of sorcerers. Question Sixteen60 is whether
 the Heresy of Sorceresses surpasses all other varieties of superstition.
 Question Seventeen61 is explanatory of Question Fourteen, comparing
 the severity of the crime in the case of sorcerers with any sins of the
 49 This is an introductory passage (45B–46A).
 50 46A–52B.
 51 52C–55D.
 52 56A–59B.
 53 59B–63C.
 54 63C–64B.
 55 64C–68C.
 56 68C–71A.
 57 71A–75B. The rebuttals to the initial arguments of these questions appear at the end (81A–C) of
 the explanatory Q. 17.
 58 This topic is discussed 74C–75B.
 59 75B–77D.
 60 77D–80A.
 61 80B–81A.
Table of Contents 3D–4A
 83
 demons. Question Eighteen62 is against the five arguments of laymen
 that God does not grant such power to the Devil and to sorcerers (in
 this topic the end is attached to the beginning in that this last question
 is connected to the first).
 Part Two of theworkcontainssixteenchapters63 under the rubric
 of two questions, one64 of which is placed at the beginning and the
 other65 at the end, the former concerning preventive cures and the lat
ter cures that break spells of sorcery. The intervening chapters treat the
 sorcerers’ procedure in inflicting spells of sorcery. The first66 question
 is whether someone can receive such benefit through good angels that 4A
 he cannot be affected by the sorcery of sorcerers and demons. Chapter
 One67 is about the various methods by which demons entice innocent
 and respectable girls through sorceresses in order to increase this breach
 of the Faith. Chapter Two68 is about the method of their sacrilegious
 avowal, with an explanation of the giving of homage to the Devil. Chap
ter Three69 is about the method by which they are bodily transferred
 fromoneplacetoanother.ChapterFour70 isaboutthemethodbywhich
 they subordinate themselves to incubus demons. In this chapter, there is
 also a treatment of how their numbers are increased as a result of them71
 andwhetheritisalwayswithanemissionofseedthattheincubusaccosts
 the sorceress,72 and whether at one time rather than another, and like
wise about the location,73 and whether they visibly carry out these filthy
 acts,74 with greater or lesser sexual enjoyment, and whether incubi accost
 only women begotten of the filthy acts of sorceresses.75 Chapter Five76
 is about the general method by which they perform their acts of sorcery
 through the Sacraments of the Church, and about the six methods by
 62 81D–85C.
 63 This refers only to the chapters of Q. 1. It was apparently forgotten to include those of Q. 2.
 64 86B–152A.
 65 152A–184A.
 66 I.e., an unnumbered introductory question (86B–92D).
 67 92D–98B.
 68 98C–100D.
 69 101A–105C.
 70 105D–111C.
 71 108A–109C. Comparison with the relevant heading in the text (108A) suggests that “them” refers
 to “carnal acts” with demons, a phrase omitted here.
 72 109C–D.
 73 Time and place are discussed together in 110A–110D.
 74 110D–111A.
 75 The issues of whether demons accost the daughters of sorceresses and of their sexual pleasure
 are discussed together in 111B–C.
 76 111C–114A.
84
 The Hammer of Witches 4A–C
 4B
 4C
 which they are able to use natural virtue to inflict real illnesses, though
 not real cures, on all bodily creations with the exception of the heavenly
 bodies. Chapter Six77 is about the method by which they impede the
 power of procreation. Chapter Seven78 is about the method by which
 they remove male members (the statements made in Part One about
 their ability to do so are now explained through their ways of working,
 and hence the material is not the same in each section). Chapter Eight79
 is about the methods by which they change humans into the shapes of
 animals. Chapter Nine80 is about the method by which demons exist
 without harm inside bodies when they work magical transformations.
 Chapter Ten81 is about the method by which demons inhabit humans
 physically throughtheworkingsofsorceresses.ChapterEleven82 isabout
 the method by which they can inflict every sort of illness. This is a gen
eral treatment, and in the following Chapter Twelve83 there is a specific
 treatment of the method by which they inflict more serious illnesses.
 Chapter Thirteen84 is about the method by which sorceress midwives
 inflict harm more than all the others, by either killing babies or offering
 them to the Devil. Chapter Fourteen85 is about the method by which
 they inflict various forms of harm on domestic animals. Chapter Fif
teen86 is about the method by which they cause hail or rainstorms or
 make lightning. Chapter Sixteen87 is about the three methods by which
 men are found to be tainted with acts of sorcery and not women: first,
 archer sorcerers;88 second, enchanters who know how to use sacrile
gious chants (words) to affect offensive weapons with sorcery in defense
 against any sort of injury; and third those who use written handbooks to
 do so.89
 77 114A–115B.
 78 115B–118D.
 79 118D–121A.
 80 121A–125C.
 81 125C–130D.
 82 130D–134A.
 83 134B–137A.
 84 137A–141D.
 85 141D–144C.
 86 144C–147A.
 87 147A–152A.
 88 147A–150D.
 89 The second and third groups are discussed together in 151A–C. The heading of the chapter
 (147A) indicates that it consists of three chapters, and two introductory passages (86B and 91C)
 speak of Chapters Seventeen and Eighteen, which must represent the second and third topics
 here, but these are not distinguished as separate chapters here.
Table of Contents 4C–5A
 85
 Concerning cures that break spells of sorcery, which is Sec
tion Two90 of Part Two,thefirst question91 raised is whether it is permis
sible to break spells of sorcery through other spells or through unlawful
 methods, and it has nine chapters. Chapter One92 is about the Church’s
 remedy against incubus and succubus demons. Chapter Two93 is about
 the remedy for the power of procreation when it has been affected by
 sorcery. Chapter Three94 is about the remedies for those affected by sor
cery with reference to irregular hatred or love. Chapter Four95 is about
 remedies when male members are taken away through the magical art 4D
 and whenhumansareturned into the shapes of animals. Chapter Five96
 is about remedies for those possessed as a result of sorcery. Chapter Six97
 is about remedies for any illnesses inflicted by sorcerers (through law
ful exorcisms). Chapter Seven98 is about remedies for hail storms and
 lightning, and also about domestic animals affected by sorcery. Chapter
 Eight99 is about certain hidden remedies for certain hidden harassments
 onthe part of demons. Chapter Nine100 is about remedies for those who
 have completely devoted themselves to the demons for the sake of some
 temporal advantage.
 Part Three of theworkconcerns the final remedies not so much
 against the sorceresses’ works as against their persons in terms of exter
minating them and contains three sections: the method of beginning
 the proceedings leading to judgment,101 the method of continuing it,102
 and the method of passing sentence, punishing and executing.103 Sec
tion One contains five questions, Section Two twelve104 and Section 5A
 Threetwenty.105 There is also a first question106 that is introductory to all
 90 152A-184A.
 91 Unnumbered introductory question (152A–158D).
 92 158D–161D.
 93 161D-164A.
 94 164A–166A.
 95 166A–167C.
 96 167C–170C.
 97 170D–179A.
 98 179B–182B.
 99 182B–184A.
 100 184A. (The question is not overtly marked as a separate question in the text, though it seems
 to be treated as such.)
 101 194C–199A.
 102 199B–217D.
 103 217D–258B.
 104 Thiswasthenumberoriginallyintended,buttheeighthquestionwasdropped,andasitstands,
 this section has eleven questions.
 105 Not an accurate count; see Pt. iii n. 101.
 106 This introductory question is not numbered (184B–193D).
86
 The Hammer of Witches 5A–B
 5B
 the others that follow: whether sorceresses and those who help, harbor
 and defend them are subject to both ecclesiastical and civil judgment,
 so that the Inquisitors of Heretical Depravity can be relieved of con
ducting the inquisition into them, and next the manner of beginning
 the proceedings.107 Question One108 is what is the suitable manner for
 the judge to start the proceedings involving the Faith against the sor
ceresses. Question Two109 is about the number of witnesses. Question
 Three110 is how often they can be examined. Question Four111 is about
 the status of the witnesses. Question Five112 is whether mortal enemies
 are allowed to give testimony. Question Six113 concerns Section Two,
 namely, how such proceedings should be continued: first,114 how the
 witnesses are to be summoned and questioned; second,115 how a list of
 general questions is to be laid out before the sorceresses as Step One;
 third,116 how a list of specific questions is to be laid out. In Question
 Seven,117 various uncertainties about the negative responses of sorcer
esses are explained as well as when she can be imprisoned, and when
 she is to be considered as someone caught in the Heresy of Sorceresses
 (this is Step Two). Question Eight118 is how she should be arrested and
 imprisoned (this will be Step Three). Question Nine119 is whether the
 names of those who give depositions are to be revealed to her after
 her arrest (Step Four). Question Ten:120 how forms of defense are to
 be granted with the assignment of an advocate (Step Five). Question
 Eleven:121 what the advocate will do when the names of the witnesses are
 not revealed (Step Six). Question Twelve122 is more explanatory: how
 mortal enmity between the accused woman and the witnesses is to be
 investigated (this is Step Seven for the judge). Question Thirteen is what
 the judge will do when the denounced person wishes to reject him as
 107 An introductory passage in 193D–194B is not noted.
 108 194C–196D.
 109 196D–197C.
 110 197C–198A.
 111 198A–C.
 112 198C–199A.
 113 199B–201D.
 114 199C–200D.
 115 200D–201B.
 116 201B–D.
 117 202A–D.
 118 203A–204A.
 119 204A–205B.
 120 205B–206B.
 121 206B–208A.
 122 208A–209D.
Table of Contents 5B–D
 87
 judge (Step Eight).123 Question Fourteen124 is about the things that the
 judge has to consider before the place of prison and torture, and how
 he should not readily expose a sorceress to torture because of the sorcery
 of silence (Step Nine). Question Fifteen125 is about the method of sen
tencing the denounced woman to questioning under torture and how
 she should be questioned on the first day. Question Sixteen126 is how 5C
 the questioning under torture is to be continued, and about the signs
 by which a sorceress is recognized, and how they are to be shaved, and
 about various stratagems for the sorcery of silence (this is Step Eleven
 for the judge). Question Seventeen127 is about the time and the second
 method128 of questioning and about the final stratagems to be practiced
 by the judge.
 Regarding the twenty methods of passing judgment,129 the
 f
 irst130 question is whether they can be sentenced to the examination and
 trial by glowing iron when they appeal to it. The second question131 is
 about the general procedures that the judge ought to follow concerning
 both interlocutory and definitive sentences. The third132 question: the
 number of ways in which the judge can consider a denounced person
 suspected, and the suspicions on the basis of which he can pass sentence.
 The fourth133 question: how sentence is to be passed on a person who
 has been denounced but is completely innocent.The fifth134 question:
 how it is to be passed on a denounced person who has a bad public 5D
 reputation. Sixth, how it is to be passed on a denounced person who
 has a bad reputation but is also in some way liable to being exposed
 to questioning under torture.135 Seventh:136 how it is to be passed on
 someonelightly suspected of that heresy. Eighth:137 how it is to be passed
 123 Though the original intent to include a chapter on this subject is indicated here, at a later stage
 it was removed. This has led to misnumbering of the subsequent questions and steps.
 124 210A–211B.
 125 211B–213A.
 126 213A–216A (Q. 15, Step 11 in the text).
 127 216A–217D (Q. 16, Step 12 in the text).
 128 Seemingly, this is a peculiar way of saying “method of questioning on the second day.”
 129 An introductory passage (217D–218A) is not noted here. For the method by which the number
 of methods is reckoned as twenty, see Pt. iii,n.101.
 130 Q. 17 (218A–219D).
 131 Q. 18 (219D–220D).
 132 221A–224D.
 133 Method 1 in Q. 20 (225A–D). (The introductory passage (224D–225A) is not noted here.)
 134 Method 2 in Q. 21 (225D–227B).
 135 Method 3 in Q. 22 (227B–228D).
 136 Method 4 in Q. 23 (228D–230A).
 137 Method 5 in Q. 24 (230A–231D).
88
 The Hammer of Witches 5D–6A
 6A
 on someone vehemently suspected. The ninth138 question: how it is to
 be passed on someone violently suspected. The tenth139 question: how
 it is to be passed on someone who has a bad public reputation and is
 likewise suspected. The eleventh140 question: how it is to be passed on
 someone who has confessed heresy but has not relapsed and is repen
tant. The twelfth141 question: how it is to be passed on someone who
 has confessed heresy and is repentant but has probably relapsed. The
 thirteenth142 question: how it is to be passed on someone who has con
fessed and is unrepentant but has not in fact relapsed. The fourteenth143
 question: how it is to be passed on someone who has confessed heresy
 and is unrepentant and has certainly relapsed. The fifteenth144 question:
 howitistobepassedonsomeonewhohasnotconfessedbutisconvicted
 of heresy by legal witnesses and other means in court. The sixteenth145
 question: how it is to be passed on someone who is convicted but is a
 fugitive or contumaciouslyrefusestoappearincourt.Theseventeenth146
 question: howitistobepassedonsomeonewhohasbeendenouncedby
 another sorceress in prison but who has notconfessed. Theeighteenth147
 question: how it is to be passed on someone accused not of inflicting but
 of breaking spells of sorcery. The nineteenth148 question: how it is to be
 passedonarchersorcerers,enchantersofweaponsandanynigromancers.
 The twentieth question149: how it is to be passed on midwife sorcer
esses, who surpass all others in acts of sorcery.The conclusion concerns
 the remedy of appeal, describing what the judge, whether ecclesiastical
 or civil, should do when any denounced woman takes refuge in that
 remedy.150
 138 Method 6 in Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 139 Method 7 in Q. 26 (234C–236B).
 140 Method 8 in Q. 27 (236B–238A).
 141 Method 9 in Q. 28 (238A–240C).
 142 Method 10 in Q. 29 (240C–241C).
 143 Method 11 in Q. 30 (241C–242C).
 144 Method 12 in Q. 31 (242D–245A).
 145 Method 13 in Q. 32 (245B–248B).
 146 Method 14 in Q. 33 (248B–251B).
 147 Method 15 in Q. 34 (251B–252C).
 148 Treated as an incidental topic in Q. 34 (252D, 254B). Associated with this topic is a treatment
 of aiders and abettors, but no notice is taken of this here (or in the specific table of contents
 in 225A). Midwives (the subject of the next question) actually appear first; for a possible
 explanation of this inverse order, see Pt. iii,n.529.
 149 Treated as an incidental topic in Q. 34 (252C, 254B–C).
 150 Q. 35 (255A–258C); though given as the last method in 225A, there is no numeration in the
 text.
part i

Part I 7A–C
 91
 question one
 [TT] WHETHER claiming that sorcerers exist is such a 7A
 Catholic proposition that to defend the opposite view steadfastly is alto
gether heretical.
 [AG 1] And it is proven that it is not a Catholic proposition to claim
 any of these things: “Whoever believes that any creature can be created
 or changed for the better or worse or transformed into some shape or
 appearance in any way other than by the Creator of all things Himself
 is worse than a pagan or infidel” (26,Q.5 “Episcopi”). When it is stated
 that such things are done by sorcerers, to make such claims is not a
 Catholic but a heretical proposition.
 [AG 2] Also, sorcery has no effect in the world. This is demonstrated
 on the grounds that if it did, it would happen through the operation of
 demons, but to claim that demons are able to impede or bring about
 bodily changes seems not to be a Catholic proposition, because in that
 case they would be able to destroy the entire world.
 [AG3] Also, every bodily change, for instance the causing of illnesses
 or the restoration of health, is ascribed to a movement in location. This
 is clear from [Aristotle] Physics,Bk.7 [actually 8.7] (“of which the first is 7B
 the motionofHeaven”).ButdemonscannotvarythemotionofHeaven,
 because this is an act of God alone (Dionysius in his Letter to Polycarp
 [7.2]). Thus, it seems that in connection with bodies they cannot bring
 about any change, at least not a real one, and that it is necessary to
 ascribe changes of this kind to some hidden cause.
 [AG 4] Also, God’s creation is stronger than the Devil’s in the same
 way that His work is stronger than the Devil’s. But if sorcery existed
 in the world, the work of the Devil would certainly be contrary to the
 creation of God. Therefore, it is unlawful to believe that the creations
 and works of God in connection with humans and domestic animals
 can be rendered faulty as a result of the works of the Devil, just as it is
 unlawful to claim that the superstitious creation of the Devil can surpass
 the work of God.
 [AG5]Also,whatissubjecttophysicalvirtuehasnovirtuetoinfluence
 bodies. Demons are subordinate to the virtues of the stars, as is clear
 from the fact that certain enchanters observe the constellations in order
 to invokedemons.Therefore,theydonothavethevirtueofhavingsome
 influence on bodies, and all the less do sorceresses.
 [AG 6] Likewise, demons operate only through an art. But an art 7C
 cannot render a true form. For this reason, it says in Chapter “Minerals”
92
 The Hammer of Witches 7C–8A
 [Albert, Five Books on Minerals 3.1.9], “Let the proponents of alchemy
 know that forms cannot be changed.” Therefore, when demons operate
 by art, they cannot in fact cause true states of health or illness. Instead,
 if such states are real, they have some other, hidden cause without the
 work of demons and sorcerers.
 [SC 1] But to the contrary in 33,Q.1 [Si per sortiarias] (“If sometimes
 through sorcerers’ and magicians’ arts and by permission of the secret
 and just judgment of God and by the preparation of the Devil...”) it
 says that three things co-operate in the impediment caused by sorcer
ers in connection with conjugal acts: the sorceress, the Devil and the
 permission of God.
 [SC 2] Also, the stronger thing can act on the less strong, and the
 virtue of the demon is stronger than a bodily virtue: “There is no power
 over the earth that can be compared to him who was created to fear no
 one” (Job 40 [actually, 41:24]).
 7D
 8A
 [CO] Response. Here three heretical errors must be attacked, and
 once they have been refuted, the truth will be clear. According to the
 teaching of St. Thomas in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist.
 34[Sent.4.34.1.3.Co.],wherehetreatstheimpedimentcausedbysorcery,
 certain people have tried to claim that there is no sorcery in the world
 except in the opinion of humans, who ascribe to sorcerers natural effects
 whose causes are unknown. There are others who grant the existence of
 sorcerers but claim that it is only in their imagination and fantasy that
 they co-operate in bringing about effects of sorcery. The third are those
 who say that the effects of sorcery are purely fantastical and imaginary,
 though a demon does in fact co-operate with the sorceress. The errors
 of these groups are explained and refuted as follows.
 The first are censured completely for heresy by the Doctors in the
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4 in the distinction cited above,
 especially by St. Thomas. In the “Response” section in Art. 3 [Sent.
 4.34.1.3.Co.], he says that this opinion is completely contrary to the
 authorities of the Saints and is rooted in lack of faith. His reasoning is
 that since the authority of the Holy Scripture says that demons have
 power over bodily objects and over the imagination of humans when
 they are allowed to by God, as is known from many passages of Holy
 Scripture, those who say that there is no sorcery in the world except
 in the opinion of humans likewise believe that demons exist only in
 the opinion of the common people. Consequently, a person attributes
 to the demon the terrors that he creates for himself, the sorts of figures
 that the human imagines appear in the perception from the vividness of
Part I 8A–B
 93
 the imagination, and in that case he believes that he sees demons (let us
 say that this applies to sorcerers too). Since these ideas are rejected by
 the True Faith, by which we believe that angels fell from Heaven and
 that demons exist, we also avow that as a result of the subtlety of their
 nature, they have many powers that we do not. Those who induce them
 to do such things are called sorcerers. Thus Aquinas. Because lack of
 faith in someone who has been baptized is called heresy, such people are
 censured for heresy.
 The two other errors do not deny the existence of demons and their
 power but contradict each other regarding the effectiveness of sorcery
 and the sorceress herself. While one grants that sorceresses really do
 work together with the demon to achieve the result, though this result
 is not real but fantastic, the other grants the real effect in the person
 harmed but thinks that the sorceress only imagines that she works with 8B
 the demon. They derive the basis of this error from two passages of the
 Canon that are contained in 26,Q. 5, “Episcopi.” First, women who
 believe that they ride on horseback with Diana or Herodias151 during
 the night-time hours are censured (examine the Canon in that passage),
 and adherents of the error think that because it is stated that such things
 happen only fantastically in the imagination, this is the case with all
 other effects. Second, it is stated in the Canon that whoever believes or
 claims that some creature can be madeorchangedforthebetterorworse
 or turned into a different form or appearance in any way other than by
 God, the Creator of all things, is an infidel and worse than a pagan, and
 on the basis of the phrase “...changed for the worse...,” they say that
 this effect is not real in terms of the person affected by sorcery and is
 only imaginary.
 That these errors smack of heresy and contradict the healthy under
standing of the Canon is shown both by divine and by ecclesiastical and
 civil law, first in general terms and then specifically through citation of
 the words of the Canon (this will be demonstrated more clearly in the
 following question).
 151 The canon Episcopi purports to be a ruling of a Council of Ancyra (modern Ankara) held in the
 early fourth century, but it is first attested in the early tenth century (and presumably was drawn
 up in the Carolingian period). It rejects the notion held by certain women that they cavorted
 on the backs of beasts during the night with the pagan goddess Diana or Herodias (the Biblical
 f
 igure), traversing great distances. The canon asserts that no such thing happens, and that the
 experience is really a delusion induced by the Devil. The ideas attacked in the canon are actually
 folk superstitions, but the apparent denial of nocturnal travels in this authoritative text posed a
 problem for adherents of the elaborated theory of sorcery, which presupposed nocturnal flights
 for the purpose of attending meetings presided over by Satan. There are several attempts in the
 Malleus to argue around this text.
8C
 94
 The Hammer of Witches 8C–D
 In manypassages,divine law prescribes that sorceresses should be not
 only shunned but killed. It would not impose penalties of this kind, if
 they did not actually co-operate with devils in bringing about real effects
 and injuries. For the death of the body is inflicted only in the case of
 serious bodily sin, though the case is different with the death of the soul,
 whichcanresult fromanillusion of thefantasy or fromtemptation. This
 is the opinion of St. Thomas in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2,
 Dist. 7 [Sent. 2.7.3.2] in the question as to whether it is evil to make use
 of the assistance of demons. For in Deuteronomy 18[:11–12] it is ordered
 that all sorcerers and enchanters are to be killed.152 Leviticus 19 [actually,
 20:6] also says, “As for the soul that resorts to magicians and soothsayers
 and fornicates with them, I will set My face against that soul and kill it153
 from the midst of My people.” Also, Ch. 20[:27] says, “Whether man
 or woman, let those in whom there is a pythonic or divine spirit154 die.
 They will cover them with stones.”155 (Those in connection with whom
 the demon works wondrous results are called “pythons.”)156
 Also, these things exist,157 because Ochozias became sick and died
 on account of such an agreement (2 Kings 1[:16–17]), as did Saul (1
 Chronicles 10[:13]).
 8D
 As for those who treat Scripture, what else have they handed down
 about the power of demons and their magic arts in their writings on
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dists. 7 and 8? Let the writings
 of anyDoctorbeexaminedandthereaderwillfindwithnodisagreement
 that with God’s permission magicians and sorcerers are able to produce
 wondrous and not imaginary results through the virtue of demons. I
 pass over many other passages in which St. Thomas treats broadly of
 such works, as in Summa Against the Gentiles Bk. 3, Chs. 101 and 102
 [1.101, 102], Part One,Q.114,Art.4, and Second of Second, Qs. 92 and 93.
 Next, let the postillators158 and glossators159 on the magicians of Pharaoh
 (Exodus7)beexamined,andalsothewordsofAugustineinBk.18ofCity
 of God, Ch. 17 andThe Christian Doctrine,Bk.2 [2.20–24], and similarly
 the words of the other Doctors. It is quite absurd to contradict all these
 152 Actually, verse 11 contains a prohibition against magical practices, and verse 12 indicates that
 God himself will destroy such people as abominations.
 153 The gender of the Latin word for “soul” makes it possible to interpret this as “her.”
 154 The Vulgate has “spirit of divination.”
 155 I.e., stone them to death.
 156 For “pythons,” see 10C, 78B–C and 79D, and n. 553.
 157 This seemingly meaningless phrase is part of an adaptation of the original passage (from Nider)
 in order to make it fit the format of the disputed question.
 158 Composers of summary explanations of the Bible.
 159 Composers of Biblical explanations keyed against individual words.
Part I 8D–9B
 95
 men, and doing so cannot be absolved of the fault of heresy. Rather, in
 law whoever errs in the explanation of Holy Scripture is considered a
 heretic (24,Q.1, Chapter “Heresis”), as is anyone whose opinion about
 matters of the Faith differs from the teaching of the Roman Church
 (same cause and question, Chapter “Haec est fides”).
 Next, ecclesiastical law shows that they contradict the healthy under- 9A
 standing of the Canon. When the Doctors of Canon Law deal with
 the impediment caused by sorcery in connection with conjugal acts in
 Chapter “Si per sortiarias et maleficas artes”(33,Q. 1) and in the Title
 “Frigid People and those Affected with Sorcery”intheLiber Extra [4.15],
 what else do they purport to do but explain how it severs a marriage
 that has been or is to be entered into? Like Thomas in the Commentary
 on Pronouncements (citation as above [Sent. 4.34.1.3.Ra3]), they say that
 if sorcery befalls the marriage before carnal union, then if it is perma
nent, it impedes and severs a marriage already entered into, and such
 a pronouncement would not be given about an illusionary and imagi
nary effect, as is self-evident. Look at Hostiensis in the Copious Summa
 [4.15.9], and also Geoffrey [Summa on the Titles of Decretals 4.15] and
 Raymund[Summa4.16]. One cannot read in any passage of their works
 that they raised any difficulty as to whether such an effect can be con
sidered imaginary and not real. Instead, they take this to be self-evident,
 and explain how the effect could be considered permanent or temporary
 (if it lasts beyond three years). Nor do they have any doubt as to whether
 it is introduced by the sorceress through the imagination or an illusion.
 Instead, they say that such a defect can be really and truly caused by 9B
 the virtue of a demon on account of an agreement entered into with
 him, or by the demon himself without a sorceress. Though the latter
 happensveryrarely in the ChurchsinceithasthemeritoriousSacrament
 of Matrimony, they say that this happens among the infidels, since the
 demon perceives that he has a just title to them. For instance, in his
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4 [Sent. 4.34.2.3], Peter de Palude
 tells a story about a man who betrothed himself to an idol and nonethe
less contracted a marriage with a certain young woman. He was unable
 to know160 her because of the Devil, who always interposed himself in
 an assumedbody.IntheChurchtheDevilnonetheless tries to introduce
 such effects through sorceresses for the purpose of securing the damna
tion of souls, and there will be explanation below of how he can do this
 and by what means. In that section, there will also be a treatment of the
 160 I.e., carnally.
96
 The Hammer of Witches 9B–D
 9C
 9D
 seven ways of harming humans through similar effects.161 This fact is
 also made clear in other questions that theologians and canonists raise
 about this topic, when they discuss how the spell of sorcery can be bro
ken and whether it is lawful to break it through another spell of sorcery
 and what to do if the sorceress by whom the sorcery was inflicted
 is dead (this situation is mentioned by Geoffrey in his Summa).162
 There will be an explanation of these matters in the questions of
 Part Three.163
 Why ever would the canonists have promulgated various penalties
 with such care, distinguishing between the secret and the manifest sin
 of sorcerers (or rather diviners)? For this criminal suspicion has various
 varieties, so that if the sin is notorious, the Eucharist is denied; if it
 is secret, forty days’ penance is imposed (“Consecration,” Dist. 2,“Pro
 dilectione”);164 if the criminal is a cleric, he should be deposed and con
f
 inedtoamonastery165 (26,Q.5,“Nonoportet”); and such people should
 be considered to have a bad reputation,166 as should those who resort to
 them, andinfact they should not evenbeallowed tolodge anaccusation
 (2,Q.7,“Quisquis nec”).
 The civil law adopts the same attitude. For Azo in the Summa [on
 Code of Justinian 9.16] says after the Cornelian Law on assassins and
 murderers in Bk. 9 of the Code under the rubric “Sorcerers”:167 “Be it
 known that all those whom the common people call sorcerers and also
 those who know the art of divining suffer capital punishment, as in the
 Law ‘Nemo,’ (Chapter of the Code ‘Sorcerers’ [Code of Justinian 9.18.5]).
 TheLaws‘Culpa’and‘Nullus’[CodeofJustinian9.18.8,3]likewise impose
 this penalty. For these laws use the following words: ‘No one is allowed
 to practice divination; otherwise he shall be thrown down and suffer
 execution through the vengeance of the sword.’”168 He adds: “There are
 also others who prey on the lives of the innocent through the magical
 161 For these seven methods, see 45B–C and n. 333.
 162 Passage unknown.
 163 Actually, Pt. ii,Q.2 (152B–184A).
 164 The chapter cited does impose excommunication for a known magus but the distinction of
 notoriety versus concealment of the crime is not there. The preceding chapter does prescribe
 forty days’ penance– for someone whose carelessness results in a mouse eating the host!
 165 Actually, the canon cited merely decrees their expulsion from the church.
 166 The term translated here as “bad reputation” usually has this sense in the Malleus, but here it
 is a technical term from Roman civil law that refers to someone whose “ill-repute” debars him
 from taking advantage of various legal procedures.
 167 The term translated here as “sorcerers” also signifies “evil doers,” but since this word is the
 invariable designation of sorcerers in the Malleus, it is hard to imagine the reader taking it in
 its broader sense.
 168 This last phrase is actually stitched together from words in 9.18.5 and 6.
Part I 9D–10B
 97
 art and turn the minds of women to lust, and these people are exposed
 to the beasts, as is stated in the Law ‘Multi’ (same Chapter of the Code)
 [Code of Justinian 9.18.6].” The laws also decree that anyone is allowed to
 bring an accusation against them, as does the Canon in Chapter “In fidei
 favorem”(LiberSextus).Then,thefollowingisaddedinthesamepassage:
 “Anyone is allowed to lodge this accusation as if in a case of treason [l` ese
 majest´ e]). For they virtually strike at God’s majesty.” It is also stated
 that they are subject to questioning under torture: “And regardless of
 status everyone is subject to questioning under torture, and whoever is
 convicted, even if he reveals his own crime, is to be handed over to the
 rack and is to endure penalties worthy of his crime when claws lacerate
 his sides, as in the Code in the law “Si ex”[Code of Justinian 9.18.7]” and
 so on. Note that in the past such people were punished with two sorts 10A
 of execution, either the application of claws to tear their bodies apart or
 exposure to the beasts so that they would be eaten alive. Now, however,
 they are burned alive, perhaps because of their being female.
 Also, the laws prohibit taking part in such acts. For this reason, it
 adds: “Also no one should allow such people to approach their thresh
old; otherwise their property is burned up. No one should receive or
 consult them, otherwise they are exiled to an island and all their prop
erty is confiscated.”169 At this point note is made of the penalty of exile
 with loss of all property for those who consult or receive such people.
 When preachers make these penalties known to the nations and the
 rulers of the world, they are set ablaze with anger against the sorcer
esses more than they would be from the citation of other passages from
 Scripture.
 Also, the laws commendthosewhoobstructtheir acts of sorcery. This
 is why the law “Eorum” (cited above) says: “Others who bring it about
 that the toils of humans are not crushed by the winds or hail are worthy
 not of a penalty but of a reward.”170 (In what way it is lawful to impede
 such acts will be explained below, as was mentioned previously.)171 10B
 Every individual should decide how denying these facts or frivolously
 contradicting them can fail to raise a suspicion of heretical depravity,
 unless perchance ignorance excuses the culprit. (What sort of ignorance
 provides an excuse will be explained immediately below.)172
 169 This is a paraphrase of Code of Justinian 9.18.3.
 170 This is actually a conflation of a paraphrase of “Eorum”(Code of Justinian, 9.18.4) with the end
 of 9.18.3.
 171 See Pt. iii,Q.2, Ch. 7 (179B–182C).
 172 12C–13A.
98
 The Hammer of Witches 10B–D
 The conclusion reached on the basis of all the foregoing is that it is
 a very true and Catholic proposition to claim the existence of sorcerers
 who, with the assistance of demons on account of an agreement entered
 into with them, can cause real effects of sorcery with the permission
 of God. The possibility that they can also create effects of conjuring
 and fantasy through means of conjuring is not excluded, but because
 the present investigation concerns the effects of sorcery, which are quite
 different from those other ones, this has nothing to do with the question
 at hand, such people being called fortune-tellers or enchanters rather
 than sorcerers.
 10C
 10D
 Next, because the foundation for two errors in particular is based on
 the words of the Canon, (leaving aside the first, which condemns itself
 through excessive deviation from the Truth of Scripture), it is necessary
 to proceed to a healthy understanding of the Canon, first of all attacking
 thefirst ofthetwoerrors, whichis the error of those people whosaythat
 themeansareimaginarybutthefirstandlastelementsreal.173 Hereitisto
 be noted that while there are fourteen main varieties within the category
 of superstition, for the sake of brevity it would not be appropriate to list
 them, both because they are clearly listed by Isidore in Etymologies Bk. 8
 [8.5] and by St. Thomas in Second of the Second.Q.92 [actually, Summa
 2/2.95.3.Co.], and because there will also be mention of them below,
 where the seriousness of this heresy will be treated (in the last question
 here in Part One).174 While the variety in which such women are placed
 is called the variety of “pythons” (these are people in whom a demon
 either speaks or performs wondrous works, and this variety is quite often
 listed first),175 the variety in which sorcerers are categorized is called the
 variety of sorcerers. Because they greatly differ from one another, and
 it is not appropriate that someone who functions under one variety
 should be encompassed under the others too, therefore since the Canon
 mentions those womenandnotthesorceresses, it is a false interpretation
 of the Canon when they wish to ascribe such imaginary transportations
 of bodies to the entire category of superstition and to all its varieties, so
 that all sorceresses are transported only in the imagination in the way
 that those women are. The Canon is further falsified by anyone who
 would wish to argue on the basis of it that it is only in the imagination
 173 Herethereis somethingofaplayonwordsintheLatin,thewordfor“means”literallysignifying
 “things in the middle.”
 174 Presumably, Q. 16 (77D–80A).
 175 For “pythons,” see 8C, 78B–C and 79D, and n. 553.
Part I 10D–11B
 99
 that a sorceress co-operates in using sorcery to bring about an effect
 consisting of sickness or disease.
 Also,thosewhoerrinthiswayarefurthercensuredwhentheyconcede
 the reality of the beginning and end, that is, the working of the demon
 and the real effect consisting of the disease, but say that the instrumental
 medium, that is, the person of the sorceress, co-operates in fantasy,
 though the medium takes part in a way surpassing the nature of the
 beginning and end. Nor is it valid to say that the fantasy is in fact
 something real, since the fantasy is such that the person can produce
 an effect or co-operate in the working of a demon only through an
 agreement entered into with the demon. In this agreement, the sorceress
 has offered and bound her entire self to the Devil– really and truly and
 not merely in the fantasy and imagination. Thus, it is in fact appropriate
 that she should really and bodily work with the Devil. For this is the
 purpose of all the works of sorcerers, in which it is always by his working
 that they carry out acts of sorcery through touch or vision or speech or
 some other device of sorcery placed under the threshold of the house,
 in the way that will be explained in the following question.
 Also, if someone carefully examines the words of the Canon, he will 11A
 observe four things that preachers and priests ought to preach with all
 urgency to the congregation in the churches entrusted to them. First, no
 one should consider that there is any godhead or divinity apart from the
 One God. Second, to ride on horseback with Diana and Herodias is to
 roam with the Devil, who gives himself this form and name. Third, on
 such an occasion this riding takes place in the fantasy, since the Devil’s
 control of a mind subordinated to him through lack of faith is such that
 those things that take place through the spirit alone are believed to be
 happening bodily. Fourth, they have to obey this lord in all matters.
 Hence, it is absurd to extend these words to all acts of sorcery, since
 there are different varieties.
 The question as to whether sorcerers are transported in location
 in their own variety of superstition or merely in the imagination like
 pythons will be treated in the chapters of the Part Two176 (Chapter
 Three stating that both are true).177
 In this way, the second error is demolished along with the first in
 terms of its foundation and the healthy understanding of the Canon. In
 addition, the third error, which claims on the basis of the words of the
 Canon that the effect of sorcery is one of fantasy, is also demolished 11B
 176 Pt. ii,Q.1 is meant.
 177 101A–105C; see also 97A–B.
100
 The Hammer of Witches 11B–C
 on the basis of the words of the Canon. For when it says, “Whoever
 believes that some creature can be created or changed for the better or
 worse or turned into another shape or likeness in any way other than by
 the Creator of all things...isworse than an infidel,” these three clauses
 are, if understood in simple terms, contrary to the sense of Scripture and
 the determinations of the Doctors.
 ThefollowingCanon“Necmirum”(after“Episcopi”justcited) should
 be examined, since it says that some creatures, namely real imperfect
 animals, can be created by sorcerers. As to the determination made
 by Augustine [City of God 10.8] about the magicians of Pharaoh, who
 turned rods into snakes, the gloss on Exodus 7[:11] (“Pharaoh called
 the wise men...”) should be examined. So should another gloss (that
 of Strabus), which says that demons run all over the world because by
 incantation sorcerers try to use them to create a certain effect, and they
 collect various seeds and from the use of these seeds various appearances
 11C
 can burst forth. Albert in Animals178 should also be examined, as should
 St. Thomas in First Part,Q. 113,Art.4. For the sake of brevity their
 statements are omitted here. The only thing remaining is that it should
 be understood that there it is stated that procreation takes place.
 As for the second clause (that creatures can be changed for better or
 worse), “only by God with His authorization” and “as correction” or “as
 punishment” should be understood. Quite often, however, these acts
 are carried out through the assistance of demons. Just as the phrases,
 “The Lord smites and Himself cures,” and “I will kill and I will bring
 to life . . . ” [Deut. 32:39] relate to the first clause, the phrase, “...an
 infliction through evil angels” relates to the second, as was discussed
 above.179 Finally, in the Canon “Nec mirum” cited above, the words of
 Augustine should be examined with reference to who are sorcerers and
 of what sort their workings are, when they sometimes inflict not only
 illnesses but even death on humans.
 It is also beneficial to have a healthy understanding of the third clause,
 since present-day sorcerers are quite often changed through the work of
 demons into wolves and other beasts. But the Canon is speaking of
 a real transformation in substance and not about the conjuring kind,
 which quite often occurs. Augustine [City of God 18.18] also has many
 descriptions about the latter, for instance the very famous magician
 Circe, the companions of Diomedes, and the father of Praestantius.
 178 Passage unknown.
 179 Actually, the second phrase is only discussed below: 15D, 16D.
Part I 11C–12A
 101
 There will be an explanation180 about this topic in the chapters of Part
 Two,181 including whether sorcerers are always present or absent, and 11D
 whether the Devil assumes that form or the person himself is seen as
 such, in Chapters Six and Seven.
 Since182 the second partofthequestionsaysthatitisheretical to
 claim steadfastly what is contrary to these positions, it is asked whether
 such people should be considered as being caught in heretical depravity
 or only as strongly suspected of heresy. It seems that the former is the
 case. For in the Ordinary Gloss on the word “Deprehensi” in the section
 “Praesenti” of Chapter “Ad abolendam”(Liber Extra, “Heretics”: “We
 nonetheless ordain by the present command that whatever persons are
 caught in heresy...”) Bernard [of Botone, Commentary on the Decretals
 of Gregory VII] explains that someone is considered to be caught in three
 ways: through the evidence of the deed (for instance, when he publicly
 preaches heresy); by lawful proof throughwitnesses; or onthebasisofhis
 own confession. Since such people openly preach this or rashly oppose
 all the positions discussed above by claiming that witches do not exist or
 that they are completely unable to harm humans, they are categorized
 under this distinction as being caught in such depravity. To the same
 effect is the gloss of Bernard on the phrase “deprehensi publice”inthe 12A
 secondChapter“Excommunicamus”;Chapter“Superquibusdam”(Extra,
 “Signification of Words”) also is to the same purport. The reader should
 examine that chapter, and he will find the truth.
 But to the contrary. This seems excessively harsh both because of the
 attendant penalty, whichislaidoutinSection“Praesenti”ofChapter“Ad
 abolendam,” (there it is prescribed in the case of a cleric that he should
 be defrocked and turned over as a layman to judgment of the secular
 power for punishment with fitting penalty), and because of the igno
rance and large numbers of those who are perceived to be culpable for
 such an error. On account of the number being so large, the rigor of
 justice should be moderated (Dist. 40,“Ut constituteretur”).
 Response. It is our intention to excuse such preachers from the fault
 of heresy as far as we can rather than accuse them, and as is said in the
 Liber Extra in Section “Quo circa” of Chapter “Literas”: “We order that
 180 119D–120A.
 181 I.e., Pt. ii,Q.1.
 182 This section represents an intrusion into the main disputed question that has some of the forms
 of a new disputed question, in that it has an initial erroneous answer and argument and “sed
 contra” and “response” sections, but it lacks a direct refutation of the initial argument. The
 responses to the arguments of the main quaestion appear in 13A.
102
 The Hammer of Witches 12A–C
 12B
 12C
 since we do not wish a man to be convicted of so serious an accusation
 on account of mere suspicion, strong though it may be...”; here the
 gloss on the word “condemnari” states that proceedings can be insti
tuted against such a man when he is strongly suspect in this way, but
 he should not be convicted on this account unless violent suspicion is
 present. Nonetheless, since we cannot rule out the suspicion (because
 of their frivolous claims in contradiction of the Truth of the Faith),
 and since there are three kinds of suspicion (light, heavy and violent;
 these are mentioned in Chapter “Accusatus” and in Chapter “Cum con
tumacia”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”) and such suspicion is noted by the
 Archdeacon and by John of Andrea on the word “vehemens”183 in Chap
ter “Accusatus” and the Canon also speaks of the violent kind (Dist. 34,
 “Quorundam”),184 it is necessary to ask what sort of suspicion such a
 preacher is subject to. Indeed, since it is known that those who preach
 such dogmas commit their errors in different ways– some waver and
 vacillate through mere ignorance of divine law, while others do so even
 though they are sufficiently informed, and none are willing to give their
 full assent– and since an error in the mind does not make a heretic
 unless accompanied by obstinacy in will, it is also appropriate to say
 that they are not subject to the suspicion of the crime of heresy in the
 same way.
 Because they think that they can escape through ignorance, let them
 take some small note of how serious is the sin of those who commit
 wrong as a result of such ignorance. For though there are many kinds
 of ignorance, in the case of curates of souls ignorance of whatever sort
 cannot be called insuperable ignorance (or specific ignorance after the
 fashion of the philosophers), which is called ignorance of fact by jurists
 and theologians. Rather, in them it is considered universal ignorance,
 whichis ignorance of divine law, since it is ignorance of those things that
 someone is legally bound by divine statute to know (Pope Nicholas in
 Dist. 42 [Actually, Decretum 1.43.5]: “We are enjoined to broadcast the
 heavenly seed. Woe if wedonotsowit!Woeifwekeepsilent!”). For they
 areobligatedtohaveknowledgeofHolyScripture(Dist.36initsentirety;
 in addition,withregardtoenlighteningthesoulsofthoseputundertheir
 control, see in the same distinction Ch. 2 §“Ecce” and §“Si quis vult,”),
 though according to Raymundus,185 Hostiensis,186 and Thomas [Sent.
 183 Should be vehementem.
 184 There is such a chapter, but it says nothing of violent suspicion, speaking instead of the bad
 reputation of a bishop who was said to be unduly fond of hunting and of his own daughter.
 185 Passage unknown.
 186 Passage unknown.
Part I 12C–13A
 103
 4.24.1.3b.Co.] what he is required to have is not outstanding knowledge
 but relevant knowledge, that is, knowledge sufficient for carrying out
 his office. Yet as some consolation for them, they should note that so
 long as they later compensate for earlier damage with later profit, this 12D
 ignorance of the law, while it is sometimes called intended, stupid and
 indolent, is called intended(thatis, voluntary)intwoways.Sometimesit
 is accompanied by knowledge of the intention, sometimes by ignorance
 of it. While the first provides no excuse for anyone but rather condemns
 him (about it the Psalm [35:4] says, “He did not wish to understand
 how to act well”), the second diminishes the sin in the same way that
 it diminishes the voluntary aspect, since it occurs when someone is
 obligated to know something but does not know that he is obligated.
 This was the case with Paul: “I received mercy because I acted ignorantly
 in my lack of belief” (1 Tim. 1[:13]).
 It is called “intended” indirectly, in that on account of other activities
 he neglects to learn what he is obligated to and is unwilling to study
 hard to learn this, which is not a total but a partial excuse. Ambrose
 says on Rom. 2[:4] (“Or are you unaware that the goodness of God is
 bringing you to repentance?”), “You sin most seriously if you are most
 seriously,” that is, very dangerously, “ignorant.” Therefore, particularly
 at the present time, let us dispel all ignorance in order to bring succour
 to the dangers faced by souls and let us always have before our eyes the
 very harsh judgment that hangs over us in connection with the strict
 accounting for the talent entrusted to us.187 This will make sure that in 13A
 our case this ignorance is not marked down as stupid and indolent by
 analogywiththestupidorindolentmanwhodoesnotevenseethethings
 that are right in front of him. For the Chancellor says in the second rule
 in Flowers of Moral Rules,188 that culpable ignorance of divine law does
 not apply to the man who does what he has it within him to do. The
 explanation is that the Holy Spirit is ready to teach such a man directly
 about the necessities for salvation that exceed his strength.
 [RA 1] The solution to the first argument is obvious from a healthy
 understanding of the Canon.
 [RA 2] As for the second argument, Peter of Tarentaise [Sent. 4.34]
 says, “If he were permitted to by God, the Devil would certainly destroy
 man as a result of the great enmity that impels him against man.” The
 fact that God permits him to do some things and not others redounds
 187 The reference here is a combination of the earlier citation of the Book of Wisdom (cf. n. 11)
 with the parable of the talent in Matt. 25.
 188 Passage unknown.
104
 The Hammer of Witches 13A–C
 to the greater disgrace and displeasure of the Devil, since in all things
 God uses him contrary to his will to manifest His own glory.
 13B
 13C
 [RA3]Asforthethirdargument,itissaidthat anychangeresulting in
 illness or some other effect that is caused by sorcery is always preceded
 by some movement in location, in that the demon uses the sorceress
 to gather predetermined agents (those that are able to cause harm) and
 applies them to predetermined subjects in order to inflict pain or harm
 or some extremely vile act.
 If the question is raised whether this movementofobjectsatthehands
 of the Devil should be ascribed to the motion of the heavens, it should
 be said that it should not. It is as the result not of a natural virtue that
 the objects are moved but of the natural obedience by which they are
 subordinated to the virtue of the demon, who has the power that he has
 overbodiesasaresultofthevirtueofhisnature.Isay“power”notbecause
 he has the power to impose upon material objects some shape, whether
 in substance or incidental attribute, without the assistance of another
 natural object, but because with God’s permission he has the power to
 move objects in location or to bring about some quality. Hence, the
 effect caused by sorcery is not subordinate to the motion of the heavens,
 just as the demon himself is not, although those objects and devices are.
 [RA4]Asforthefourth argument, it should be said that to the extent
 that we are speaking at the present time about the effect of sorcery, the
 workofGodcanberenderedfaultybytheworkoftheDevil,butbecause
 this is possible only with God’s permission, it does not follow that the
 Devil is stronger than God. Also, he does not render the works of God
 faulty through violence, since in that case he would be able to destroy
 them.
 [RA 5] As for the fifth argument, it is simply known that heavenly
 bodies do not have the virtue to make an impression on demons since
 they do nothing that surpasses their own virtue. As for the fact that
 they come when summoned by magicians at the time of a particular
 configuration of stars, it appears that they do this for two reasons. First,
 they know that the virtue of that configuration assists the effect that the
 magicians desire. Second, they do so to encourage humans to worship
 some divinity in the stars. From this worship the rite of idolatry arose
 in the past.
 [RA 6] As for the last argument, the reply in reference to the argu
ment’s treatment of alchemists’ gold should follow St. Thomas in the
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 7, in the solution to one
 argument [Sent. 2.7.3.1.Ra4]. There he explains the virtue of demons
Part I 13C–D
 105
 in their working, stating that although certain essential forms can be
 brought about through art by the virtue of a natural agent (for instance,
 when the form of fire is brought about in wood by art), this cannot
 happen on a universal basis in that art is not always able to discover
 the proper agents or to conjoin them to the proper subjects. It can,
 however, make something similar, and this is how the alchemists make
 something similar to gold in terms of incidental external characteristics.
 Nonetheless, they do not make true gold, because the essential form of
 gold does not exist through the heat of the fire that the alchemists use
 but through the heat of the sun in a predetermined place where the 13D
 mineral virtue is strong. For this reason such gold does not possess the
 working that pertains to the category, and it is the same with their other
 workings.
 As for the issue at hand. Demons work through art in connection
 with the effects caused by sorcery. Accordingly, without the assistance of
 another agent they are able to bring about no substantial or incidental
 form. We do not say that a demon inflicts acts of sorcery through art
 without the assistance of another agent, and therefore with such assis
tance he is able to bring about true qualities of illness or of any other
 form of suffering.
 In the following sections there will be explanation of how these kinds
 of assistance or provision of devices do or do not have to co-operate with
 demons to produce an effect of sorcery.
 [Note on Sources
 Identified major sources for Q. 1:
 Aq., Sent. 2.7.3.1; 4.7.3.1; 4.34.3.1
 Eym., Dir. 3.89
 Nider, Praec. 1.9]
 question two
 [TT] Whether it is a Catholic proposition to claim that in order
 to achieve an effect of sorcery the demon always has to co-operate with
 a sorcerer or that one without the other (the demon without a sorcerer
 or the other way around) can produce such an effect.
 [AG 1] The first argument is that the demon can do so without
 a sorcerer (Augustine in the Book of Eighty-Three Questions [79.1–3])
 because it is believed that everything that happens visibly can also be
14A
 106
 The Hammer of Witches 14A–B
 made to happen by the lower powers of the air, but since all forms of
 bodily harm are not invisible but rather are perceptible, they can also be
 made by demons.
 [AG 2] Also, as for the forms of the harm inflicted on Job (the
 f
 ire coming down from the Heavens and in one fell swoop burn
ing up his family together with the herds of sheep, and a whirlwind
 killing his children by blowing down the house), according to Scripture
 [Job 1.12–19] the Devil worked these without the co-operation of
 sorcerers andsimplybythepermissionofGod.Therefore,suchisthecase
 with the other things that are attributed to sorcerers. This is also clearly
 the case with the demon’s killing of the virgin Sarah’s seven husbands
 [Tobias 6:14–16].
 [AG3]Also, whatever power a lower virtue has without the assistance
 of a higher virtue, the higher virtue has without the assistance of the
 lower virtue. A lower virtue can stir up hailstorms and induce illnesses
 without the aid of the higher virtue.189 For Albert says of sage (Properties
 of Things)190 that has been made to rot in certain ways that he mentions
 in that passage, that if it is thrown into a spring, it will stir up miraculous
 storms in the air.
 14B
 [AG 4] Also, if it is stated that the demon uses sorcery not because
 of any insufficiency but for the sake of the damnation of the sorceress
 whomhedesires,Aristotle ([Nicomachean] Ethics,Bk.3 [3.5]) says to the
 contrary, “Evil is an act of the will.” For on the basis of the fact that no
 one performs an unjust work voluntarily, he proves that such a person
 doesnotwishtobeunjustandthatthevoluntarysexualtransgressordoes
 not wish to be lacking in self-restraint, and this is why legislators punish
 evil people on the grounds that they perform evil works voluntarily.191
 If, therefore, the demon uses a sorceress for his work, he uses her as
 an instrument, and since the instrument depends upon the will of the
 principal agent and is not acting voluntarily if it does co-operate, the
 act is not to be ascribed to her and, consequently, she is not to be
 punished.
 189 This is the second premise of an incomplete syllogism. The omitted conclusion is, “Therefore,
 a demon can, as a higher being, produce such effects without the assistance of a sorceress.”
 190 Text unknown.
 191 The Latin translation of this passage of Aristotle states, “It is an unreasonable idea that the man
 whodoesunjust things does not want to be unjust or that the one who commits sexual excesses
 does not wish to lack self-restraint...These arguments are attested to by every individual
 and by legislators, who punish and harm those who commit unjust works...but honor those
 who perform good works.” The argument here clearly demands such a formulation, but the
 scholastic elaboration of Aristotle has garbled his thought.
Part I 14B–D
 107
 To the contrary he can produce no effect among the lower entities
 without sorcerers ([Aristotle] Generation,Bk.1: “Every action takes place
 through contact”), and since a demon can have no contact with bodies
 since he has nothing in common with them, he uses some instrument,
 instilling in it the virtue to cause harm through contact.192
 [AG5]According to this view, the fact that acts of sorcery can happen
 without the work of demons is proven by the text of Galatians 3[:1]
 (“O insensible Galatians, who gave you the evil eye to prevent you from
 obeying the truth?”)193 and the gloss on it. This gloss says, “Certain
 people have burning eyes that infect others, especially children, with a
 single glance.” To this effect, there is also a pronouncement of Avicenna: 14C
 “Moreover, many times a soul has an effect on another’s body just as it
 does on its own, for instance, the work of the evil eye and of the power
 of estimation when it performs works” (Book Six of Natural Elements,
 Bk. 3, last ch. [Soul 4.4.65]). The same opinion is set down by Algazel
 in Bk. 5, Ch. 9 of his Physics. Avicenna even thinks, (his position here
 is not accepted), that the virtue of the imagination can change external
 bodies even without vision. In this he expands the power of imagination
 excessively (here we do not take “virtue of imagination” in the sense
 that it is distinguished from the other internal virtues of perception like
 common perception, fantasy and estimation, but in the sense that it
 includes all those internal virtues). But it is perfectly true that this virtue
 of the imagination canchangeanattachedbodysuchastheoneinwhich
 it is. For instance, a man can walk on a plank that is in the middle of
 the road, but if it is placed over deep water, he will not dare to walk
 upon it because in his soul the strongly impressed form of falling will be
 imagined, the material he is made of and the virtue of his limbs obeying
 this form and not its opposite (the command to walk straight ahead). 14D
 In this case, therefore, the change is comparable to the evil eye in that
 its own body is changed first and not that of the other person, which is
 the kind of the change about which we are now speaking.
 192 ThisparagraphappearstoprovidearebuttaltoAg4,andthereforeproperlybelongsaccordingto
 the rules of the disputed question in Ra4 (see 17A). Apparently there has been some undetected
 error in the composition of this quaestion. The introductory phrase “sed contra” suggests that
 this passage may have been intended to form part of the “sed contra” section (see 15B), but even
 then the method of composition is defective, since it begins with the conclusion and then cites
 a supporting text, whereas the “sed contra” section normally begins with text contradicting the
 erroneous conclusion argued for at the start of the quaestion and then explains its significance.
 In any case, the cross reference in the “sed contra” section shows that the author of that passage
 was aware of this one.
 193 “to . . . truth” is not in the Vulgate text of this passage, but here it seems to be considered part
 of the text.
108
 The Hammer of Witches 14B–15B
 [AG 6] Also, if it is stated that such a change is brought about in one
 living body by another through the mediation of the soul, the contrary
 is the case. Since in the presence of the murderer blood drips from the
 wounds of the murdered man, bodies can produce miraculous results
 even without the power of the soul. In the same way, when a living man
 passes close by the corpse of one who has been killed, he is shaken by
 terror even though he does not perceive the body.
 15A
 15B
 [AG 7] Also, natural objects have certain hidden virtues whose func
tioning cannot be described by man, like the fact that a magnet attracts
 ironandmanyothersrecountedbyAugustine(CityofGod,Bk.21[21.4]),
 and similarly women are able to make use of certain objects to produce
 changes in others’ bodies without the help of demons. These acts also
 surpass our reason, but just because they do so, we should not describe
 them as consorting with demons as if the acts of sorcery indicated this.
 [AG 8] Also, certain sorcerers make use of images and objects as
 devices, sometimes placing them under the threshold of the entrances
 to houses or in certain gathering places of domestic animals or humans,
 who are affected by the sorcery or sometimes die. It is proven that such
 effects can result from these images in that the images possess certain
 influences that they have received from the heavenly bodies. For bodies
 made byart are subordinate to the heavenly bodies in the same way that
 natural bodies are, and natural bodies can receive certain hidden virtues.
 Therefore those images created by art, and so on.194 Hence, it appears
 that their works can be implemented through such influences and not
 through demons.
 [AG 9] Also, if true miracles occur through the power of nature in
 that it works them, then amazing and astounding works do occur in
 this way as a result of the virtue of nature. This is proven when Gregory
 says (Dialogues,Bk.2 [2.30.3]), “It is sometimes as a result of prayer and
 sometimes as a result of their power that the Saints perform miracles.”
 Anillustration of each is given. Byprayer, Peter revived the deadTabitha,
 and without prayer he handed the liars Ananias and Sapphira over to
 death with a rebuke.195 Therefore, a man too will be able, through the
 virtue of his soul, to transform bodily matter in another person, or to
 bring about a change from health to illness or the other way around.
 [AG10]Also, the humanbodyismorenoblethanotherlowerbodies,
 and because of the comprehension of the human soul the human body
 194 In scholastic discourse, the obvious conclusion of a syllogism is frequently summarized in this
 way.
 195 See Acts 9:36–42, 5:1–11.
Part I 15B–D
 109
 is madetoturnhotorcold, as is clear in the case of people who are angry
 or fearful. Indeed, this change sometimes goes so far as to cause illness or
 death. Therefore, it196 is all the more capable of changing bodily matter
 through its own virtue.
 [SC] But to the contrary. Spiritual substance can have influence on a
 formonlywiththeassistance of another agent, as wasdiscussed above.197
 Hence, Augustine says in the aforementioned book [City of God 20.4]:
 “It should not be thought that the matter of objects visible here obeys
 the beck and call of those sinful angels, but rather that it obeys God
 alone.” All the less, then, can man achieve the effects of sorcery as a
 result of natural power.198
 [CO]Response.Therearesomewhoerrinconnectionwiththistopic
 by excusing the sorceresses and by either holding the demons alone 15C
 culpable or ascribing the sorceress’s deeds to certain natural changes.
 The falseness of these views is first shown through the definition of
 sorcerers, about which Isidore says, “They are called evil-doers [Lat.
 malefici=“sorcerers”]becauseoftheenormityoftheirmisdeeds,thatis,by
 bringing about evils that surpass those of other evil-doers” (Etymologies,
 Bk. 8, Ch. 9 [8.9.9]). Then he adds, “They stir up the elements,” that
 is, through the working of demons, “in order to stir up hail and rain
 storms.” Healsosays:“Theythrowthemindsofhumansintoconfusion”
 (understand: resulting in madnessandirregularhatredandlove).Healso
 adds, “And without any drinking of poison they destroy souls merely
 through the violence of their chant.” “Nec mirum”(26,Q.5) istothe
 same effect (there are the words of Augustine in City of God, where he
 explains which people are called magicians and sorcerers):199 “Magicians
 are those who are commonly called evil-doers [malefici] and are named
 this because of the enormity of their crimes. It is these people who, with
 God’s permission, stir up the elements, throw into confusion the minds
 of those who have less confidence in God, and without the drinking of
 poison kill humans merely through the violence of their chant. Hence
 Lucan, too, says [Civil War 6.457]: ‘Contaminated with no contagion 15D
 from poison that has been drunk, the mind, being enchanted, dies.’
 196 Presumably the soul.
 197 See n. 192.
 198 Logically, this argument should also mean that the demons are just as incapable of influencing
 sorcerers, and realization of this difficulty is the cause of the insistence throughout the work
 upon the permission of God in the practice of sorcery.
 199 This clause in the Latin appears to explain the origin of the quotation in the Decretum, though
 it may simply be an independent citation. In any case, the following quote does come from
 the Decretum without attribution to Augustine (it is actually from Isidore). Presumably, the
 erroneousattribution is somesortofmisguidedscholastic’s attemptatdemonstratingerudition.
110
 The Hammer of Witches 15D–16A
 For after summoning demons, they dare to impel them to kill their
 enemies withevil arts.”200 From these statements, it is clear that in works
 of this kind it is always necessary for the demons to co-operate with
 sorcerers.
 16A
 Second, we can assign effects serving as penalties to four categories:
 assisted, harmful, caused by sorcery, and natural. “Assisted” is the name
 for those effects inflicted with the assistance of good angels, and similarly
 “harmful”isthenameforthoseinflictedwiththeassistanceofevilspirits.
 For in the ten plagues Moses smote Egypt with the assistance of good
 angels, while in the nine the magicians simply co-operated with evil
 spirits.201 As for the three-day disease resulting from the sin committed
 by David in connection with the census of the people and the slaughter
 of 77,000 people in the army of Sennacherib in a single night,202 in
 these instances the actions were clearly carried out by angels of the Lord,
 that is, by good ones who recognized and worshipped the Lord. When
 effects are named “harmful” in the Scriptures, these are impositions on
 the part of evil angels [Ps. 77:49], and that nation203 was often stricken
 in the desert by impositions of this kind. Effects are said to be “caused
 by sorcery” when a demon works through sorcerers or magicians, and
 similarly “natural” ones are those brought about in lower objects as
 a result of the influences of heavenly bodies in terms of deaths, the
 blighting and sterility of crops, hail storms and the like. There are great
 differences among these effects, and therefore since Job was stricken
 by the demon with a “harmful” plague and not with one “caused by
 sorcery,” this has no relevance to the issue at hand.
 If, in the rather quibbling manner in which this topic often suffers
 trifling examination at the hands of the defenders of sorceresses, who
 always busy themselves with the surface level consisting of the words
 and never reach the pith consisting of the truth,204 someone demands to
 know why Job was not stricken by the demon with an effect caused by
 sorcery in the same way that he was with a harmful one, to such people
 the quibbling response can be given that Job was stricken by the Devil
 alone with no sorcerer or sorceress acting as intermediary either because
 this sort of superstition had not yet been invented, or even if it had,
 200 This last sentence is a paraphrase of Code of Justinian 9.18.6.
 201 This is a misrepresentation of the story in that the magicians directly competed with Moses
 only in the first few plagues.
 202 See 2 Sam. 24:11–15 and 2 Kings 19:35. Oddly, while the latter passage lists 185,000 victims, the
 former has 70,000.
 203 I.e., Israel.
 204 Note the impatience with anyone who questions the basis of this conception of sorcery.
Part I 16B–C
 111
 the providence of God nonetheless wished the power of the demon to 16B
 become known to the world for the glory of God and as a precaution
 against the Devil’s traps. For he can cause an effect only when permitted
 to by God.
 As for the time when the first kind of superstition was invented
I mean the first kind in terms of the invocation of demons and not
 pure idolatry– Vincent says in Mirror of History [1.101], citing many
 Doctors, that the first inventor of the arts of magic and astrology was
 Zoroaster, who is said to have been Ham, the son of Noah.205 According
 to Augustine (City of God [16.3, 10; 21.14]), he is the only man to have
 laughed when he was born, which was nothing but the work of the
 Devil. When he was king, he was defeated by Ninus, the son of Belus,
 who built Nineveh, or rather was the one under whom the kingdom
 of the Assyrians was founded in the time of Abraham. This Ninus also
 had an image made for his dead father on account of his irregular love
 for him, and all criminals who fled to this image were free from every
 punishment they owed. As a result, people began to worship images as
 gods, butthiswasafterthefirstgeneration,becauseatthattimetherewas
 no idolatry on account of the freshness of the memory of the creation
 of the world, as Saint Thomas says (Second of Second,Q.95,Art.4 16C
 [actually, Summa 2/2.94.4.Ra2]). Or it began with Nimrod, who would
 force men to worship fire, and thus idolatry came into existence in the
 second generation.206
 Idolatry is the first kind of superstition, divination being the second
 and observation the third. The rite of sorcerers is ascribed to the second
 kind of superstition (divination), which takes place through the explicit
 invocation of demons. There are three varieties of it: nigromancy, the
 study of planets (also called astrology), and divination through dreams.
 I havesetoutthesefacts inorderthatthepiousreadermayunderstand
 that thoseharmfulartswerenotinventedsuddenlybutoverthecourseof
 time, and that it is not discordant to claim that there were no sorceresses
 at the time of Job. For the harmful arts of demons grew incrementally
 over the course of time in the same way that the knowledge of the
 Saints did, as Gregory says in Moralia [34.1]. The earth is now full of
 the knowledge of the Lord (Isaiah 11[:9]), and similarly, as the evening
 205 Here the Persian prophet of the sixth century bc is given a biblical lineage. The dualist religion
 founded by him (known as Zoroastrianism) was associated in the ancient world with astrology,
 in which the Chaldeans (a priestly clan of the Persians) were supposedly highly versed.
 206 For the “generations” of mankind, see Aq., Sent. 4.40.1.4 Ex.; the first encompassed the period
 from Adam to Noah, the second the period from Noah to Abraham, that is, the period from
 the regeneration of mankind after the Flood until the Covenant.
112
 The Hammer of Witches 16C–17A
 16D
 17A
 of the worldis nowdecliningtowardsunset andtheevil ofmenincreases
 and their Grace207 grows cold, every sort of iniquity on the part of sor
cerers is superabundant.208 In any case, when Zoroaster devoted himself
 to these acts (just the observation of the stars), he was impelled by the
 Devil (cited above).
 As for the time when one reads that sorcerers united with demons
 to inflict acts of sorcery, this was discussed above, and this is stated in
 Exodus7withreferencetothemagiciansofPharaoh,who,intheplagues
 across Egypt, performed many signs through the assistance of demons
 in the same way that Moses did through the assistance of good angels.
 Hence, the conclusion is the Catholic Truth, that to achieve an effect
 of sorcery (though not a harmful one) asorcerer always has to co-operate
 with a demon, and through these statements the response to the argu
ments is clear.
 [RA 1] As for the first, it is not denied that harmful effects, which are
 visibly perceptible in connection with humans, domestic animals and
 crops and which often do derive from the influences of heavenly bodies,
 are also inflicted by demons with the permission of God. For Augustine
 says: “Fire and air are subordinate to demons to the extent that this is
 permitted to them by God” (City of God,Bk.3 [Trinity 3.8?]). This is
 also clear from the gloss on the words “inflictions through evil angels,”
 [Ps. 77:49] which says: “The Lord punishes through evil angels.”
 [RA2]Fromthesestatements and fromtheprevious discussion about
 the beginning of the magical art, the response to the second argument
 (the one about Job) is also clear.
 [RA 3] As for the third argument (the one about the rotten sage
 thrown into a well), the response is that although the harmful effect
 follows without the help of a demon (though not without the influence
 of a heavenly body), still, we are speaking about an effect caused by
 sorcery, so the situation is not comparable.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth, it is said that it is true that it is only for the
 sake of their damnation that demonsusesorcerers. Whenit is concluded
 that the latter are not to be punished because they are co-operating as
 instruments that are set in motion at the command not of themselves
 but of the principal agent, the response is that they are instruments
 possessing souls and acting freely. Granted, they are no longer at liberty
 after they make the explicit agreement with the demons, because, as we
 207 Lit. “charity”; for the use of this term as a synonym for the grace of God, which makes better
 sense here, see Pt. ii,n.495.
 208 For the general sentiment, cf. 2A.
Part I 17A–C
 113
 have learned from the confessions of these women (I am speaking of
 womenfolk burned for very many acts of sorcery), they are compelled
 to work with them if they wish to escape scourging at the hand of the
 demons. Nonetheless, they remain bound by the initial avowal in which
 they willingly subordinated themselves to the demons.
 As for the other arguments209 in which it is proven that the
 effects of sorcery can be brought about by old women without the work
 of demons, itshouldbesaidthatitiscontrarytoreasontoderivevarious 17B
 conclusions from a single specific example. Since in all, it seems, of the
 Holy Scriptures no such thing is found except in this instance, where
 it is a question of old women giving the evil eye or making evil facial
 expressions, it is not valid to conclude on this basis that it always has
 to happen in this way. In addition, a doubt is raised by the gloss as to
 whether such a giving of the evil eye can happen without the work of
 demons because from the glosses on that topic it can be inferred that
 the evil eye is received in three ways. The first way is called the duping
 of the senses. This happens through the magical art, and it can happen
 with the assistance of demons, unless they are prohibited by God, Who
 intervenes directly or indirectly through the assistance of the holy angels.
 Thesecondwaycanbecalledenvy, as whentheApostlesays, “Whogave
 you the evil eye?” Gal. 3[:3] that is, “persecuted you with such hatred?”.
 The third way is that as a result of such hatred a change for the worse
 takes place in the body of someone through the eyes of someone else
 who is looking at him. It is about this meaning of “giving the evil eye”
 that the Doctors commonly speak in the same fashion as Avicenna and
 Algazel, as is documentedinthearguments.ForSt.Thomasexplainsthis
 giving of the evil eye in the following manner (First Part,Q.117 [Summa
 1.117.3.Ra2]): “As a result of the strong imagination of the soul the 17C
 spirit of a conjoined body is changed. This change of spirits takes place
 especially in the eyes, which the more delicate spirits reach. For the eyes
 infect the adjoining air for a predetermined distance, in the same way
 that when mirrors are new and pure, they attract some impurity from
 the sight of a menstruating woman, as Aristotle says in the book Sleep
 and Wakefulness [2]. In this way, then, when a soul is strongly impelled
 in the direction of evil, as happens to old women in particular, the sight
 of her is rendered poisonous and harmful in this manner, especially
 for children, who have tender bodies that are easily receptive of an
 209 This passage interrupts the replies to the individual arguments, which resume in 18D.
114
 The Hammer of Witches 17C–18A
 impression. Yet, he adds that it is also possible that by God’s permission
 or as a result of some hidden deed the ill-will of demons, with whom
 fortune-telling old women have some agreement, works with them to
 produce this effect.
 17D
 18A
 For a fuller understandingofthesolutions, some uncertain
ties are raised so that the truth will become clearer from the solution to
 them. For it seems that an obstacle is first posed by the idea mentioned
 above [15B], that spiritual substances can change bodies into some nat
ural form only through the help of another agent and that therefore all
 the less can the imagination do so, however strong it may be in the soul.
 Also, there is an article210 that is condemned in many universities,
 especially the University of Paris.211 According to this article, some
 enchanter can fling a camel into a pit by sight alone, because the soul in
 its capacity to understand makes an impression on the soul in another
 capacity, including that of perception, in the same way that higher intel
ligences212 make impressions on lower ones.
 To the same effect there is the condemned article stating that external
 matterobeysspiritualsubstance,ifthisisunderstoodinastraightforward
 manner and in terms of every method of change, because in this way it
 obeys God alone, as was previously explained.213
 Once these points are seen, there is an explanation of how the giving
 of the evil eye, which is what we are talking about, is or is not possible.
 For it is not possible for a human to send out from his eyes through the
 natural virtue of his soul the sort of force that can, withoutthemediation
 of a change in his own or an intermediate body, inflict damage on the
 body of a person he is looking at, especially since according to the more
 common view we see through an internal act of receiving but send
 nothing out.214 It is also not possible that by imagining in his eyes a
 human can, by the natural virtue of his soul and at his own discretion,
 cause a change that can, through the intervention of a medium (the
 air), change the body of the person he is looking at into some quality in
 conformity with his own decision.
 210 I.e., a proposition for scholastic disputation.
 211 The decision referred to here is unknown.
 212 “Intelligence” was used in translations of Arab philosophical works (Aq., Summa 1.79.10c.Co.)
 and was equated with the “disembodied substances.”
 213 15B.
 214 The view rejected here is the theory that eyesight works by sending out some sort of beam that
 bounces back from the object being viewed and returns with an impression from which the
 eye perceives the object, in a similar way to radar or sonar.
Part I 18A–C
 115
 Since one human cannot affect another with the evil eye in the two
 methods mentioned, it not being possible for such virtue to repose in
 any human through the natural virtue of his soul, it is completely alien
 to the truth to wishtoprovethattheeffects of sorcery can arise as a result
 of some natural virtue in order to argue away the deeds of sorcerers that
 take place through the virtue of demons. For the act of giving the evil
 eye in the two methods mentioned is refuted just as those articles are.
 Though how this is possible was mentioned above, the matter is
 explained more clearly as follows. It can happen that a man or woman 18B
 looking at the body of some child impels the child through the inter
vention of vision or imagination, as if through being affected in the
 perception. Because being affected in perception is accompanied by a
 certain bodily change and because the eyes are very receptive to impres
sionbecauseoftheirgreattenderness,itsometimeshappensthatthrough
 being affected internally the eyes are changed to some evil quality. This
 is especially so when a certain imagination contributes its working to
 producethisresult, sincetheimpressionoftheimaginationquicklyflows
 into the eyes because of both their tenderness and the proximity of the
 root of the perceptions belonging to the organ of imagination.
 When the eyes have been changed to some harmful quality, it can
 happen that they change the adjacent air to some evil quality and that
 part of the air affects the next, and so on up to the air adjacent to the
 eyes of the child being looked at. Sometimes this adjacent air will be
 able to affect matter with which it is in harmony– both matter that is
 so disposed and in conformity with it– changing the eyes of the child
 himself to some evil quality, and then the mediation of the eyes of the
 child in turn changes certain internal parts. As a result, the child will be
 able neither to digest food nor to gain strength or grow in his limbs. 18C
 Thereisaninstructiveproofofthismatterthroughexperience.Wesee
 that a person affected in the eyes sometimes harms the eyes of someone
 looking at him. This results from the fact that the eyes, being tainted
 with some evil quality, taint the intervening air and the tainted air taints
 theeyesdirectedatthesickeyes.Forthetaintingisdrawnalongastraight
 line directly to the eyes of those who are looking. The imagination of
 the other person contributes its work in producing this result in that
 he imagines that he is being harmed by looking at the sick eyes. Many
 more instructive illustrations could be given, but these are omitted for
 the sake of brevity.
 A certain gloss on the phrase in a psalm that says, “Those who fear
 you will see me and rejoice” [Ps. 118:74] is in agreement with these
116
 The Hammer of Witches 18C–19A
 18D
 19A
 statements. This gloss says, “There is great virtue in the eyes, as is clear
 in the natural world. For the sight of an animal is beneficial to people
 suffering from jaundice. When he sees wolves first, a person takes away
 their voices in just this way, and if a basilisk sees first, it kills, but if it
 is seen first, it is killed. The only reason why a basilisk kills a person
 by seeing him is just that as a result of the sight and the imagination
 a poisonous substance is stirred in his body, and through this material
 f
 irst its own eyes are tainted and then the adjacent air. Other parts of
 the air are then tainted up to the air adjacent to the person, and when
 the person breathes this air, he is poisoned and dies. On the other hand,
 when the basilisk is seen first, the person wishes to kill the basilisk and
 arms himself with mirrors from which the air is infected by reflection
 when the basilisk looks into it, and when this reaches the basilisk, it is
 killed. Yet it is uncertain why the person who kills the beast does not
 die, and on this point it is necessary to hypothesize some hidden reason.
 These statements have been made without prejudgment of the issue
 or any rash claim. Let us merely rely on the words of the Saints and
 concludetheCatholicTruth,thatfortheeffectscausedbysorcery,which
 is the matter about which we are speaking at present, sorcerers always
 co-operate with the demons, and the one can achieve nothing without
 the other.
 As for the arguments.
 [RA 5] The response about the evil eye obviously answers the first.215
 [RA 6] As for the second, it is said following Vincent in the Mirror
 of Nature (Ch. 13)216 that when the wound is tainted with the spirits of
 the killer, the wound attracts tainted air as a result of the strength of
 the imagination, and when the killer passes by, the blood bubbles up
 and drips out. For the air enclosed in the wound is set in motion in the
 presence of the killer in the same way that it entered from the killer,
 and as a result of being set into motion in this way the blood bursts
 forth. There are certain men who cite other explanations, claiming that
 the bubbling of the blood is his shout from the earth against the killer’s
 presence (because of the curse on the first killer, Cain).
 As for the argument about horror (that a person passing close by the
 corpseofamurderedmanisshakenbyhorrorevenifhedoesnotperceive
 215 Here the replies to the individual arguments that were interrupted in 17A resume, but the
 numbering of the replies starts again from one, despite the fact that the first four have already
 been given.
 216 Erroneous reference.
Part I 19A–C
 117
 the corpse), it should be said that this results from the breathing, which
 receives some tainting, however small, and conveys it to the soul.
 These phenomena offer no conclusive proof against the works of
 sorcerers, since they can all happen naturally, as has been said.
 [RA 7] As for the third argument, while the rites of sorcerers are
 assigned, as was said before,217 to the second kind of superstition, which
 is called divination, the superstitious use of objects incertainobservances
 is assigned to the third kind. Hence, the argument is not relevant. This
 is also so because the rites are not assigned to just any sort of divination
 but to the kind that takes place through the explicit invocation of 19B
 demons. (This can happen in many ways, namely through nigromancy,
 geomancy,218 hydromancy219 and so on; see Second of Second,Q.95,Art.
 5 [actually, Summa 2/2.95.3.Co.]). Hence, since this sort of divination by
 sorcerers in instances where they are engaged in acts of sorcery represents
 thepinnacleamongfoulacts,thereisadifferentjudgmentaboutit.Thus,
 when it is argued that we cannot grasp the hidden virtues of objects and
 that the sorcerers are in fact making use of hidden objects, it is said that if
 they weremakinguseofnaturalobjectstoproducecertainnaturaleffects
 as a result of natural virtue, this would be permissible, as is self-evident.
 Even if it is conceded that they were making use of natural objects
 in a superstitious way (for instance, inscribing on such objects certain
 characters or unknown names) and that they were using those things to
 acquire health or friendship and for some benefit and not to inflict some
 harm, then although such actions could be done without the express
 invocation of demons (though not without animplicit invocation), they
 are still judged unlawful. In any event, because these and similar acts 19C
 are ascribed to the third kind of superstition (the observance of vanities,
 as has been said) this provides no help with the issue at hand, which
 concerns the heresy of sorcerers.
 Thereis also a solution in that four categories are assigned to this third
 kind in that someone uses observances to gain knowledge, or to make
 conjectures about fortunate or unfortunate events, or for the hanging
 of sacred words220 or to change bodies for the better. Hence, in the
 heading to the question in which he asks whether observances ordained
 for changing bodies are permissible (same book of the Summa,Q.96,
 Art. 2 [2/2.96.2]), St. Thomas significantly adds, “for instance, for the
 217 16C.
 218 Divination by earth.
 219 Divination by water.
 220 As amulets; see 172C, 173B.
118
 The Hammer of Witches 19C–20A
 purpose of health.” Therefore, since the observances of sorcerers are not
 placed here but, as has been said, are contained in the second kind of
 superstition, this has no relevance for the issue at hand.
 19D
 20A
 [RA 8] From these statements comes the response to the fourth argu
ment.Twosortsofimagescanbemadeintheseobservances(nigromantic
 ones and astrological ones), and these two concepts are distinguished in
 that, while in acts of nigromancy explicit invocations of demons are
 made on the basis of the explicit agreements entered into with the
 demons (see the solution to the second argument of the question men
tioned above [Summa 2/2.96.2.Co.]), in acts of astrology the agreements
 are implicit and for this reason there is no invocation (except perhaps
 an implicit one, involving, for example, the signs consisting of figures
 or characters that are inscribed on them). Again, it is the case either
 that the images of nigromancy are made under certain configurations of
 stars in order to receive certain influences or impressions from heavenly
 bodies with certain figures and characters being marked on a ring (for
 instance, or a gem or some valuable material), or that they are made in
 a straightforward manner without any observance of the configurations
 of the stars and indifferently out of any material at all, even a cheap
 one, in order to inflict acts of sorcery, when and where these devices for
 sorcery are placed in certain locations. Since the present discussion is
 about these effects and the associated images, and not about the others,
 this argument is not relevant to the issue at hand.
 As for how the superstitious images that have been mentioned have
 noefficacy in that they are creations of art, though perhaps the materials
 noted in connection with them could have efficacy, if and to the extent
 that they had some natural virtue from the influence of the heavenly
 bodies, someone should, if he wishes, examine the Doctor in the same
 passage.
 In any case, he says that while it is always unlawful to use images, the
 images of sorceresses are made without any natural competence to bring
 about the effect, and it is only by the command of the demons that they
 deposit and apply them in order that the sorceresses should co-operate
 with their hands towards the effect, the purpose being to inflict more
 insult on the Creator, so that He should become even more angry and
 give further permission for evil things to happen as punishment for such
 foul acts. This is also why they also cause such deeds to be done at the
 more holy times of the year.
 [RA9]Asfor the fifth argument, it should be said that in that passage
 Gregory understood the power of Grace and not of nature, and this is
Part I 20A–C
 119
 why he adds, “Why is it amazing if those who are the sons of God in
 power, as John says [John 1:12], make signs as a result of their power?”
 [RA10]Asforthelastargument,itshouldbesaidthatthecomparison
 is not valid, because the action of the soul in connection with its own
 body is one thing and its action in connection with another’s is another.
 Because the soul is united with its body as its form is, and because the
 desiring of the senses is the act of some organ of the body, when the
 human soul feels apprehension, the senses’ desiring is stirred and this
 can result in some physical change resulting in heat or cold, even to the
 point of death, but no apprehension of the human soul is sufficient 20B
 to change external bodies except through the intervention of a change
 in that body itself, as has been said with regards to the evil eye. Hence,
 sorcerers through no natural power and merely with the assistance of
 demons on the one hand, and demons by themselves with the help of
 some object like thorns, bones, strands of hair, pieces of wood or the
 like on the other, bring about the effects of sorcery when they insert or
 deposit some device, as will be explained in the following discussion.221
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 2:
 Aq., Summa 1.111.3; 1.117.3; 2/2.96.2
 Decretum 26.5.24
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.24]
 Next, we should cling more closely to the spiritual text of the
 Apostolic Bull222 and consider the origin of sorcerers and the increase in
 the number of their works, treating the sorcerers first and their works
 second. Here it should be noted that since three elements must co
operate to bring about such an effect, namely the demon, the sorceress
 andGod’spermission (33,Q.1 “Si per sortiarias”),223 Augustine says [The
 Christian Doctrine 2.23] that this superstitious vanity was discovered as a
 result of a baneful alliance of humans and demons. Therefore, the origin
 and increase of this heresy is derived from this pestilential alliance.This 20C
 fact can be deduced from other information. First, let it be noted that
 this Heresy of Sorcerers differs from other heresies, not only in that,
 221 There is no overt discussion of this topic, but the method turns up several times in Pt. ii,Q.
 1, especially in Ch. 12 (134D, 135D, 138C; see also 144A, 156D).
 222 I.e., Summis desiderantes (1A*–2B*).
 223 The text cited does not exactly say this but does imply it: acts of sorcery are said to happen
 “through the permission of the hidden judgment of God and the preparation of the Devil” (see
 7C).
120
 The Hammer of Witches 20C–21A
 whereas the difficult nature of the things that must be believed in all
 the other, straightforward heresies means that assent is given to the
 errors without any implicit or explicit agreement being entered into
 with demons (though not without the instigation of the Sower of All
 Lack of Faith),224 the heresy of sorceresses uses agreements that are not
 merely expressed but ratified as treaties, and for this reason it is crazed
 with thedesire to insult the Creator andharmHiscreationsineveryway.
 It also differs from every harmful and superstitious art in that, in a way
 that surpasses all the other varieties of divination, this heresy of sorcerers
 reaches the highest level of evil, since it even takes its designation from
 evil-doing [“maleficere”] or having an evil opinion [“male sentire”] about
 the Faith, as was mentioned before. Let it also be noted that among
 other actions they must follow four practices that serve to increase that
 breach of the Faith: they renounce the Catholic Faith in whole or part
 with a sacrilegious speech, solemnly devote themselves in body and soul,
 20D
 21A
 offer babies not yet reborn225 to the Evil One, and persistently engage in
 the Devil’s filthy deeds through carnal acts with incubus and succubus
 demons. If only it were true that all these things were devoid of any
 truth and that they should be called figments, so long as the Church
 were free from such a blemish of infection! Unfortunately, this wish is
 precluded both by what the Apostolic See has established through its
 Bull and by experience, the teacher of reality, which has, on the basis of
 the women’s own confessions and the crimes committed by them, made
 us so certain that we cannot nowceasetoconductinquisitions into these
 people without the loss of our ownsalvation. Therefore, since the matter
 about which we are about to treat, their origin and baneful increase in
 number, entails hard work, the readers must examine the details with
 the greatest attentiveness, so that those statements that are found to be
 in agreement with reason and not in disagreement with the traditions
 of the Scriptures will have to be admitted.
 Because among all the acts that serve the purpose of increasing their
 numbers, two work with them most to this end, namely the incubus
 and succubus demons and the sacrilegious offering of babies, we will
 treat them separately, though the demons will be mentioned first, the
 sorcerers second, and God’s permission third.Because the demons work
 through the intellect and the will and do so under one configuration of
 stars rather than another, in order that the seed will have the strength
 to beget progeny, an examination of the configurations observed by
 224 I.e., the Devil.
 225 I.e., unbaptized: 96A, 96D, 97C (with 214D), 138C; cf. 211D.
Part I 21A–B
 121
 the demons will be necessary.226 Accordingly, three principal questions
 will be asked.227 First, whether this heresy could originally be increased
 in terms of incubus and succubus demons;228 second, whether their229
 works can be strengthened in terms of the heavenly bodies, which are
 also causes of human actions;230 and third, whether this heresy can be
 increased through the sacrilegious offering of babies to demons.231 But
 withinthesecondandthirdquestionsasecondprincipalquestion,which
 concerns the influence of heavenly bodies, will be treated (this being an
 appropriate continuation of the treatment of the works of sorcerers).232
 Regardingthefirstpoint,therewillbethreedifficulties: thefirst ageneral
 one about the incubus demons, the second a specific one about which
 demonspractice such acts, and the third a particular one concerning the
 sorceresses’ subordination of themselves to the demons.233
 question three of part one
 [TT] ASfor the first point, it seems that it is a Catholic propo
sition to claim that humans can be begotten by incubus and succubus
 demons.234
 [AG 1] The begetting of humans was instituted by God before the
 introduction of sin, in that he shaped woman as an aid for man from his
 rib. To them He said, “Grow and increase in number” (Gen. 1[:28]) and
 againwithinspirationAdamsaid,“Therewillbetwoinoneflesh”(Gen.3
 [actually, 2:24]). Similarly, under natural law after the introduction of
 226 Cf. 24B.
 227 The logical connection of this threefold division to what precedes it is by no means clear, and
 the internal logic of the organizational conception is likewise obscure, in that the question
 of offering babies to demons turns up later in the paragraph as a “difficulty” concerning the
 f
 irst question (the increase of the heresy through demons). Apparently, the main questions will
 appear in Q. 3,Q.5, and Q. 11, with Q. 5 and Qs. 6–10 providing subordinate explanations of
 “difficulties.”
 228 Q. 3 (21A–26B). The phraseology of this clause is peculiar; the phrase translated as “in terms
 of” literally means “in comparison with,” but the sense seems to be whether the relevant action
 can be ascribed to the entities “in comparison with” which the action takes place.
 229 Presumably, the sorcerers.
 230 Q. 5 (29D–39C).
 231 Q. 11 (63A–64B).
 232 It is not clear in what way this question can be said to come between the second and third
 general questions just mentioned, since Q. 5 (29D–39C) is the only one to treat the topic of the
 heavenly bodies and their influence, and there is no material between the end of the solution
 to the arguments at the end of Q. 5 and the immediately following Q. 6 (39D–46A).
 233 The third “difficulty” refers to Qs. 7–11 (46A–64B) (see n. 333), and second is Q. 4 (27A–29D),
 but the first “difficulty” apparently signifies nothing but Q. 3 (21A–26B).
 234 Scholastic method would lead one to expect an overt statement of the incorrect view that is
 abouttobearguedforandthenrefuted:“Itseemsthathumanscannotbebegottenbydemons.”
 21B
122
 The Hammer of Witches 21B–D
 sin235 Noah was told, “grow and increase in number” (Gen. 9[:1]). In the
 period oftheNewLaw,236 too,thisunionwasconfirmedbyChrist(“Did
 younotreadthat fromthebeginning Hewhomadehumansmadethem
 maleandfemale?”(Matt.19[:4])).Therefore,othermethodsofbegetting
 humans should not be posited.
 21C
 21D
 If it is said that demons co-operate not as a natural but as an artificial
 origin when they contribute to natural conception by taking the seed of
 humans and later pouring it in, the contrary is so, because the Devil
 would have this virtue either in connection with any status, whether
 within marriage or outside it, or only in one. The first is not so, because
 in that case the work of the Devil would be stronger than that of God,
 Whoinstitutedorconfirmedeverystatus(forinstancethatofthecelibate
 and the married). The second is also not so, because nothing can be read
 in the Scriptures about humans of one status and not the other being
 begotten in this way.
 [AG2] Also, to beget a human is the act of a living body, but demons
 cannot give life when they have assumed bodies, because life flows in
 a formal sense only from the soul, and this is the act of a physical,
 organic body that has the power of life ([Aristotle] The Soul,Bk. 2
 [2.4]). Therefore, they cannot perform the works characteristic of life
 through such assumed bodies.
 If it is said that it is not in order to pass on life but to keep a natural
 seed and pour it in that they assume a body, the contrary is so. For
 nothing is redundant in the works of nature,237 just as this is the case
 with the works of good and bad angels, and since a demon can, through
 the natural virtue by which he surpasses every virtue of the body, both
 gather and later use the seed invisibly, the explanation that will be given
 is either that he cannot do this invisibly, or if he can, one action will be
 redundant.238
 235 I.e., before the Covenant between God and Abraham.
 236 I.e., the new teaching introduced by Christ in the New Testament, as opposed to the Law of
 the Jews as laid out in the Old Testament.
 237 That nature does nothing superfluous was a fundamental aphorism of scholasticism.
 238 The logic is not clearly expressed. The argument makes use of the procedure whereby an
 accepted assumption (here, that demons can act invisibly, i.e., without assumed bodies) is
 contrasted with an assumption from the disputed proposition (here, that demons transfer real
 seeds inassumedbodies)andaconclusionisdrawnfromtheirincompatibility.Fromthepresent
 juxtaposition it follows either that the first is not true, which cannot be the case if the validity
 of the first is taken for granted, or that one of the two must be redundant, which has to be the
 second if the first is held to be true. Therefore, on the principle that nature rejects redundancy,
 demons do not transfer seeds in assumed bodies. Basically, the point is that if they can do so
 invisibly, there is no point in doing so in assumed bodies.
Part I 21D–22B
 123
 This explanation is strengthened when it is said in the Book on Causes
 that the virtue of the intelligence239 is unbounded downwards, though
 it is bounded upwards, and all bodies are below intelligences. There
fore, through the unbounded nature of his virtue he can change bodies
 in whatever way he wishes. Therefore, since angels, whether good or
 bad, are intelligences, they can make changes in seeds without assuming
 bodies.
 [AG 3] Also, the action of taking seed from one person and pouring
 it into another takes place through movement in location, but demons
 cannot move bodies in location. This is proven by the fact that the
 soul is a spiritual substance just like the demon, but the soul cannot
 move a body in location unless it is brought to life by the soul, and for
 this reason, if a limb is made dead, it is rendered unmoving. Therefore,
 demons likewise cannot move a body in location unless it is brought to
 life by them. It has also been said (as a self-evident notion), that demons 22A
 do not bring a body to life, and therefore they will likewise be unable to
 move the seed in location from place to place.
 [AG 4] Also, every action happens through contact, as is said in
 Generation,Bk. 1 [actually, Aristotle, Physics 7.2], but it does not seem
 that a demon could have any contact with bodies, since he has nothing
 in commonwiththem. Since, therefore, the act of introducing seed and
 of moving it in location signifies doing something, it seems that demons
 cannot do those things.
 [AG5]Also,demonscannotmovebodiesthatareclosertotheminthe
 natural order, like heavenly bodies, and therefore they likewise cannot
 move other objects that are further away. The preceding is proven on
 the grounds that since the mover and the moved exist simultaneously
 (Physics,Bk. 2 [7.2]), it would follow that demons moving heavenly
 bodies would be in Heaven, which is true according neither to us240 nor
 to the followers of Plato.
 [SC 1] But to the contrary. Augustine says, “Demons gather seeds
 which they use for bodily effects” (The Trinity, Bk. 3 [3.8]), and
 this cannot happen without a movement in location. Therefore, the
 demons can receive seeds from some people and pour them into 22B
 others.
 [SC2]Also, Strabus’ gloss on Exodus 7[:11] (“Pharaoh summoned the
 wisemen...”)saysthatdemonsscatterthroughouttheworldandgather
 239 For the meaning, see n. 212.
 240 I.e., Christians.
124
 The Hammer of Witches 22B–D
 various seeds andfromtheuseofthemdifferentsortsofcreaturesareable
 to burst into existence (the gloss on the words “Pharaoh summoned” in
 this passage should also be examined).
 [SC 3] Also, the gloss on the phrase “the sons of God seeing the
 daughters of men...” (Genesis 6[:2]) says two things. First, in the
 phrase “the sons of God” the sons of Seth are understood, and in
 the phrase “the daughters of men” the daughters of Cain are under
stood. Second, it says that it is not incredible that wicked humans of
 this kind, that is, giants, were begotten not by humans but by certain
 demons who act immorally toward women. About the giants the text
 says, “And there were giants upon the earth, because even after the flood
 the bodies of not only menbutalso womenpossessed incredible beauty”
 [Gen. 6:4].
 22C
 22D
 [CO] Response. Because the many facts about the power and works
 of the Devil in regard to producing effects through sorcery are omitted
 for the sake of brevity, it is left to the pious reader to take them as
 self-evident, or at any rate, if he wishes to learn this in the writings
 of the Doctors, he will find the details illuminated with exactitude in
 the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 5 [presumably, Sent.
 2.7]. He will see that the demons carry out all their deeds through the
 intellect and will, and also that all these natural gifts are not changed,
 but according to Dionysius (Divine Names, Ch. 4 [4.23]) they have
 remained intact and excellent, though the demons are not able to use
 them for the good that is virtue. He will also find out in regards to
 intellect that they are powerful in three sorts of keenness of knowledge:
 natural subtlety, experience of events and revelation on the part of spirits
 above. He will also find out in connection with whom and how they
 recognize the conditions and natural impressions that are predominant
 in humans as a result of the influences of heavenly bodies, deducing
 from this knowledge that some people are more disposed to carry out
 acts of sorcery than others and importuning these people to carry out
 such acts more often than they do other people. As for his will, the
 reader will discover that this clings immovably to evil and always sins
 with the sins of arrogance, envy and the highest displeasure at God’s
 using him for His own glory contrary to the demon’s will. He will learn
 how on the basis of these two elements (intellect and will), he works
 wonders, so that there is no power on the earth that can be compared
 to them (“There is no power over the earth that can be compared to
 him who was created to fear no one” [Job 41:24]. On this there is the
 gloss: “Though he fears no one, he is nonetheless subordinate to the
Part I 22D–23B
 125
 merits of the saints.”) He will also find241 how the demon recognizes
 the thoughts of our hearts, how he can transform bodies in substantial
 and coincidental qualities with the help of another’s agency, how he can
 movebodiesinlocation,andchangetheirouterandinnersensestomake
 them have some thought, and how they can change a person’s intellect
 and will (though indirectly).
 Though all these facts serve the purpose of our present speculation,
 we nonetheless wish to derive conclusions from these facts only about
 the demons’ characteristics, so that we may proceed to the discussion of
 the question. Thesecharacteristics have been ascribed to thembytheolo
gians, because they are impure spirits (though not unclean by nature).
 According to Dionysius, unreasoning rage, insane lust and perverse 23A
 fantasy are inherent to them (understand this in terms of their spiritual
 sins: arrogance, envy and anger). For this reason, they are enemies of
 the human race and are rational in mind (though intelligent without
 running around), subtle in wrong-doing, desirous of causing harm, and
 ever novel in deceit. Theychangesenses,pollute affections, disturb those
 who are awake, disquiet those who are asleep with dreams, inflict dis
eases, stir up storms, turn themselves into angels of light, always carry
 Hell around with them, andintheir relations with sorcerers usurp God’s
 worship for themselves. The magical arts are carried out through them.
 They desire to gain lordship over the good and harass them more to
 the best of their abilities, are given to the Elect for their training, and
 always lie in ambush to attack man’s goal. Though they have a thousand
 methods and arts for causing harm (16,Q. 2 [Decretum 2.16.2.1]), in
 that since the start of their own fall they have been trying to tear down
 the unity of the Church, to wound love, to infect the sweetness of holy
 works with the bile of envy, and in every way to overturn the human
 race and throw it into confusion, his power abides in the loins and 23B
 navel (next to last chapter of Job [actually, 40:11]), since it is through the
 debauchery of the flesh that they gain great lordship over men. For the
 seat of debauchery is in the loins in men, since the seed is emitted from
 there, and it comes from the navel in women.
 With these statements set out as preliminary remarks for the under
standing of the question about incubus and succubus demons, it should
 be said that to claim that humans are sometimes begotten through
 incubus and succubus demons is such a Catholic proposition that to
 claim the opposite is contrary not simply to the sayings of the Saints but
 241 Perhaps Aq., Summa 1.57.4 is meant.
126
 The Hammer of Witches 23B–D
 also to the tradition of Holy Scripture. This conclusion is reached in the
 following manner.
 23C
 23D
 In one passage, Augustine raises this question in connection not with
 sorcerers but with the workings of demons and the stories of the poets,
 and leaves it as uncertain, though later he does make a determination
 in terms of the sense of Holy Scripture. In City of God,Bk. 3, Ch. 2
 [actually, 3.3], he says, “Let us leave undecided whether Venus was able
 to give birth to Aeneas as a result of lying with Anchises.” For virtually
 the same question arises in connection with the Scriptures: whether
 it was sinful angels who slept with the daughters of men, when the
 earth was then filled with giants (that is, men of exceeding size and
 strength) born of such unions. In Bk. 5, Ch. 22 [actually, 15.23], he
 makes a determination of the question in the following words. “The
 story is very widespread, and many men confirm that they have learned
 through experience or heard it from men of unquestionable faith, that
 forest-dwellers and fauns, whom the common people call incubi, were
 wicked to womenanddesiredandachievedintercourse with them. That
 certain demons, whom the Gauls name ‘dusii,’ constantly attempt and
 achieve this form of filthiness was commonly asserted by a large number
 of people of such character that it seems to be an act of impudence to
 denyit.”Afterwards,hegivesashisdeterminationofthesecondquestion
 that the passage in Genesis (“the sons of God,” that is, Seth, “seeing the
 daughters of men,” that is, Cain) is understood to concern not simply
 incubi. To the effect that the existence of incubi is not unbelievable there
 is a gloss on the same passage, which, as has already been mentioned,
 says, “It is not unbelievable that it was not by humans but by angels
 or certain demons who are wicked to women that such people, that is,
 giants, were begotten, and about them the text says, ‘And there were
 giants over the earth, who even after the flood...’”(cited above). A
 gloss on Isaiah 13[:21], where the prophet foretells the destruction of the
 city of Babylon and its inhabitation by monsters, makes the same point.
 “Ostriches,” says Isaiah, “will live there, and shaggy people will dance
 there” (understand “demons” in place of “shaggy people”). Hence, the
 gloss says, “‘Shaggy ones’ are hairy forest people, who are incubones
 or satyrs, certain varieties of demons.” Also, on Isaiah 13[:20–21], the
 passagewhereheprophesiesthedesolationofthelandofIdumaeans,who
 were persecuting the Jews (he says, “It will be a bedchamber of snakes,
 and pastures for ostriches and demons will appear”) an interlinear gloss
 says, “That is, demonic monstrosities intermingled.” The gloss of St.
 Gregory on the same passage says, “As for those who are being portrayed
Part I 23D–24B
 127
 as ‘shaggy ones’ with a different name, are these not those whom the
 Greeks call ‘Pans’242 and Latin speakers ‘incubi’?” To the same effect
 St. Isidore ([Etymologies]Bk.8, last ch. [8.11.103]) says, “Shaggy ones,
 who are called Panites in Greek and incubi in Latin. Hence, they are
 also called incubi, from the verb ‘incubare’ [‘to lie upon’], that is, to
 commit sexual misconduct. For they are often wicked to women and 24A
 achieve intercourse with them. These demons the Gauls called ‘dusii,’
 because they assiduously achieve this form of dirtiness. As for the one
 that they commonly call an ‘incubo,’ the Romans name him a ‘fig-faun’.
 To him, Horace says, ‘O Faun, lover of the fleeing nymphs, walk softly
 through my land and sunny fields’ [Odes 3.18.1–3].” In addition, there
 is what Paul says in 1 Cor. 11[:10]: “A woman ought to keep a covering
 over her head because of angels.” Many Catholics give the following
 interpretation: “Because of angels, that is, incubi.” To the same effect
 is Bede in the Histories of the Angles,243 and William in the book The
 Universe (repeatedly in the last part of the treatise, Sec. 6 [2.3.6]). Also,
 the Saintly DoctormakesthisdeterminationinFirstPart,Q.15[actually,
 Summa 1.15.3.Ra6], and in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2,
 Dist. 8 [Sent. 2.8.1.4b], and in Quodlibet Seven,Q. 10 [actually, 9.4.5]
 andintheCommentaryOnIsaiah,Chs.13and34.Thomassays,“Hence,
 to deny such things is an act of imprudence.244 For what most people
 think cannot be altogether false according to the Philosopher in Sleep
 and Wakefulness [3] at the end in Bk. 2 of Ethics.”245 I pass over in silence
 the manytruthful stories of both Catholic and pagan authors, whohave 24B
 openly asserted that incubi exist.
 The reason why demons make themselves into incubi or succubi is
 not for the sake of pleasure, since a spirit does not have flesh and bones,
 but the strongest reason is that through the fault of debauchery they
 may harmthe nature of both aspects of man (the body and the soul), so
 that humans will in this way become more inclined to all faults.
 There is no doubt that they know how to make seeds vigorous under
 certain constellations, and when people are conceived under these con
stellations, they are always perverted with forms of evil. Hence, after the
 Highest One listed the many faults of debauchery of which He wished
 His people to be free and in which the faithless were ensnared, He says
 (Lev. 18[:24]), “Do not be polluted in all the things that contaminate
 242 I.e., the plural of the Greek god Pan, who was a spirit of the countryside.
 243 Passage unknown.
 244 The words are Augustine’s, actually; see 23C.
 245 Passage unknown.
128
 The Hammer of Witches 24B–D
 24C
 24D
 the pagan nations, whom I shall cast out in front of your eyes. The
 earth is polluted with these things, and I shall visit vengeance upon its
 crimes.” The gloss on the word “nations” says, “Demons. Because of
 their large numbers, they are called ‘nations’ as a totality. While they
 rejoice in every sin, they rejoice especially in fornication and idolatry,
 because in these both body and soul are besmirched, as is all mankind,
 which is referred to as ‘earth.’ For whatever sin a man commits is outside
 the body, but whoever fornicates commits a sin against his own body.”
 If someone wishes to look at stories about incubi and succubi, let him
 examine Bede in the Histories of the Angles and William (as cited above)
 and then Thomas of Brabant in the book that is entitled Bees.
 As for the arguments.
 [RA 1] As for the first (the one about natural begetting having been
 instituted between the male and female by God), it is said that just as
 with God’s permission the Sacrament of Marriage can be vitiated by the
 work of the Devil through acts of a sorceress, as was explained above,246
 similarly and a fortiori the same can happen in connection with any
 other sexual act between male and female.
 If it is askedwhytheDevilispermittedtopracticeactsofsorceryinand
 concerning the sexual act rather than concerning other human acts, it is
 said that manyreasonsareascribedbytheDoctors,andthesereasonswill
 be treated below in the section where God’s permission is discussed.247
 Forthetimebeing,thepurposediscussedbeforeissufficient,namelythat
 the power of the demonis in the loins of humans. For inall contests the
 harder battles are those in which the fighting is continuous and victory
 rare.
 It is also not valid when it is said that in that case the work of the
 Devil would be stronger than that of God, since he would be able to
 vitiate the acts of matrimony instituted by God. For he does not vitiate
 through violence. Quite the contrary. Since he is able to taint nothing
 unless permitted to by God, his lack of power is the better conclusion
 from this.
 [RA 2] As for the second, it is true that to beget a human is the act
 of a living body. When it is said that demons cannot give life because it
 f
 lows in a formal sense from the soul, this again is true, but it is emitted
 as matter from the seed and the demon incubus can send it in with
 God’s permission through sexual union, doing so not as if the seed were
 246 Perhaps 9A–B is meant.
 247 This topic is not in fact discussed in the formal section on God’s permission in Qs. 12–18 (see
 83C with n. 569, where it appears that 53BinQ.8 is the intended reference here).
Part I 24D–25B
 129
 emitted by him but with another human’s seed that he has taken for
 this purpose, as the Saintly Doctor says in First Part,Q. 51, Article 3
 [Summa1.51.3.6]. For the same demon who is a succubus in terms of the
 manbecomes an incubus in terms of the woman. (This is also how they
 take up the seeds of some things for the generation of other things, as 25A
 Augustine says (The Trinity,Bk.3 [3.8.9]).) Hence, if it is asked whose
 child one born in this way is, it is clear that it is not the child of the
 demon but of the man whose seed was taken.
 When it is insisted that nothing is redundant in the works of angels
 just as this is the case in those of nature, this is granted. When it is
 concluded that the demon can both receive and pour in seed invisibly,
 this is true, but he instead does this work visibly as a succubus and
 incubus, so that in this way he may use a foul act like this to taint the
 body and soul in each person (both the man’s and the woman’s), as was
 discussed in the body248 of the question.
 Also, demons would have more invisible powers, but while they are
 not permitted to exercise these powers invisibly even if they wish to,
 they are permitted to do so visibly, for either the training of the good or
 the correction of the evil.
 It could happen that in place of one succubus demon another one
 receives the seed from him and makes himself an incubus in his place.
 There would be three reasons for this. Perhaps the demon delegated to
 the woman received the seed from the other demon delegated to the
 man, so that in this way each would be able to practice an act of sorcery
 in connection with the person entrusted to him by the Prince of the
 Demons. For each person has a personal angel assigned to him from 25B
 among the evil ones as well. Another reason is the foulness of the act,
 which one demon balks at committing, since, as is explained in the
 following question,249 the nobility of their nature causes certain demons
 to balk at committing certain actions and filthy deeds. The third reason
 is that the demon invisibly interposes himself next to the woman and
 introduces into her his own seed (the seed that the incubus took) in
 place of her husband’s. It would not be contrary to his nature or power
 to effect such an act of interposing, since even in an assumed body he
 can interpose himself invisibly and imperceptibly in the way that was
 explained above withreference to theyoungmanwhobecomebetrothed
 to an idol.
 248 I.e., the “response” section (see 24B).
 249 27D–28B.
130
 The Hammer of Witches 25B–D
 25C
 25D
 [RA 3] As for the third, the statement that the power of an angel is
 unbounded in respect of upper250 things, this is, that his virtue cannot
 be encompassed by the lower things but always surpasses them, so that
 it is not restricted to just a single effect, the reason for this is that the
 highest among the entities have the most universal virtues, and therefore
 it cannot be said that because of its being unboundedupwardshisvirtue
 has the absolute power over every effect with reference to producing it,
 since in this way it would also be called unbounded downwards in the
 same way that it is upwards.
 Next, there ought to be a proportionate relationship between that
 which acts and that upon which it acts, and there can be no such rela
tionship between a purely spiritual substance and a bodily one. There
fore, even the demons would have the power over some effect only if
 some other active origin acted as an intermediary. This is why they use
 the seeds of things to bring about effects according to Augustine (The
 Trinity,Bk.3). Hence, this argument boils down to the preceding one
 and is not strengthened by it, unless one wishes to explain why intelli
gences are said to have powers unboundedupwardsandnotdownwards.
 This would be granted to the demon as a result of the order of bodily
 things and of heavenly bodies, which could in their own right have the
 influence to cause many, unbounded effects. This does not, however,
 happen because of the weakness of the lower things.251
 It is concluded that demons can make changes in seeds (without
 assuming bodies). This is no argument against the interpretation
 given here about incubi and succubi, who practice their actions only
 in assumed bodies, as was discussed above.252
 [RA 4] As for the fourth (demons cannot move bodies in location,
 and hence cannot move seed, either, and so on, the proof given being
 an argument by analogy about the soul), it should be said that it is one
 thing to speak about the spiritual substance of an angel or of a demon,
 and another to speak of the soul. The reason why the soul cannot move
 a body in location, unless that body is given life by the soul or by the
 body’s contact with the other body that has not been given life, is that
 250 “Upper” makes no sense, and the passage of Aquinas adapted here (On Evil 16.9.Ra8) has
 “lower,” which also seems to be presupposed in the rest of the present text that goes back
 to Aquinas. But whereas Aquinas argued that spiritual entities were limited in their activities
 upwards, but unlimited downwards, his text has apparently been (incompletely) modified here
 to argue the opposite.
 251 The argument seems to be that since demons cannot interact with lower beings directly, they
 need to use lower beings as their “intermediaries,” and since these lower intermediaries are
 limited in their abilities, the demons are consequently limited in their effects on lower beings.
 252 25B.
Part I 25D–26B
 131
 the soul holds the lowest level in the order of spiritual substances. For
 this reason, it also happens that the body that it has to move by contact
 ought to be proportionate, but this is not the case with demons, whose
 virtue completely surpasses bodily virtue.
 [RA5] Asfor the fifth, it should be said that the demon’s contact with
 the body of the seed or with anything else at all is not a form of contact
 withthebodybutwiththevirtue,andthistakesplaceinaccordancewith
 a proportionate relationship between the mover and the moved in that
 the body that is moved does not surpass the proportionate relationship 26A
 of the demon’s virtue in the way that the heavenly bodies and the earth
 and the elements of the world do.
 As for why the latter are surpassing, we can say, as Saint Thomas
 does in Questions About Evil (Q. 10, “On Demons” [actually, 16.10.Co.])
 that this is the case either because of the condition of nature or because
 of damnation for sin.253 There is an order to things according to their
 motion, just as there is an order to them according to their nature,
 and the lower bodies can be moved by lower spiritual substances like
 demons in the same way that the higher bodies in Heaven are moved by
 the higher spiritual substances like good angels. Whether this happens to
 the demons in accordance with the condition to nature, in that accord
ing to the proposition set out by some people the demons come not
 from the upper angels but from those that God put in charge of the
 order here on earth, as the philosophers think, or if it happens as a
 result of the penalty for sin, as is the pronouncement of theologians, the
 demonshavebeendrivenoutoftheir heavenly seats down to the air here
 as if to a punishment, and thus they cannot set that air or the earth into
 motion.
 These statements have been added because of two arguments (con- 26B
 cerning the heavenly bodies) that are implicitly solved. One says that the
 demonscouldmovethemtooiftheycouldmovebodiesinlocationsince
 they are closer to the demons, as the last argument also alleges. If the first
 view is at issue, the response is that the argument is not valid because
 those bodies surpass the proportional relationship of their virtue. If, on
 the other hand, this position is not at issue but the second one is, then
 once again they cannot move the heavenly bodies because of the penalty
 for sin.
 This is also relevant to the argument in which someone raises the
 objection that the motion of the whole and the part are the same thing,
 253 “Sin” here translates the Latin culpa, which is the technical ecclesiastical term for an action that
 constitutes the commission of a sin.
132
 The Hammer of Witches 26B–D
 for instance that of the whole earth and a clump of dirt (Physics,Bk.3),
 and thus if the demons could move part of the earth, they could move
 the earth as a whole. This is not valid, as is clear when one examines
 the distinction. To gather the seeds for things and to use them for
 certain effects does not surpass their natural virtue when God gives
 them permission, as is self-evident.
 26C
 26D
 Let us give a summary conclusion. Certain people say that demons
 cannot in any way beget life in assumed bodies and that the phrase “the
 sons of God” signifies “the sons of Seth” and not “the incubus angels,”
 and similarly “the daughters of men” signifies the womenwhose lineage
 went back to Cain. Despite this claim, the contrary is claimed by many
 people, as is clear, and what manypeoplethinkcannotbealtogetherfalse
 according to the Philosopher (in Ethics,Bk.7 and at the end of Sleep
 and Wakefulness). Furthermore, in the present day, the deeds and words
 of sorceresses who really and truly carry out such acts give testimony to
 the contrary. Therefore, we make the following three statements. First,
 such demons practice the most revolting sexual acts, not for the sake
 of pleasure but in order to taint the soul and body of those under or
 on whom they lie. Second, through such an act women can conceive
 perfectly andgivelifetotheextentthatinthesuitablepartofthewoman’s
 wombthe demons can apply a human seed to the proportionate matter
 that already exists there. This method is analogous to the way that they
 can also gather the seeds for other things to bring about certain effects.
 Third, in the begetting of such offspring, only the aspect of movement
 in location is ascribed to the demons but not the begetting itself, which
 takes its start not from the virtue of the demon or of the body assumed
 by him, but from the virtue of the man whose seed it was. Therefore,
 the child begotten is not the demon’s but the other man’s.
 From these facts it is clear what response there is for the arguments
 when someone wishes to argue that demons cannot give life for two
 reasons. The first is that the giving of life is completed through the
 formative power that is in a seed released from a living body and because
 the body assumed by the demon is alive, therefore etc.254 The response
 is obviously that the demon places the formative power of the seed in
 the appropriate place, and therefore etc.
 Second, if it is said that the seed has the power of begetting for only
 as long as the heat of the soul is kept in it, but this must necessarily
 radiate away when carried over a great distance, the response is that for
 254 For the phrase “therefore etc.” see n. 194.
Part I 26D–27B
 133
 the preservation of the seed the demons can set in place certain things to
 prevent the dissipation of the heat of life, or that the demons move very
 quickly because of the victory of the moveroverthemoved.Accordingly,
 dissipation will not take place so quickly.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 3:
 Aq., On Evil 16.7, 9, 10; Sent. 2.8.1.4; Summa 1.51.3
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.9; Praec. 1.11.7]
 question four: by which demons such practices
 are carried out255
 [TT] WHETHER it is a Catholicproposition to claim that the acts 27A
 of incubus and succubus demons are appropriate for all unclean spirits
 equally and without distinction.
 [AG 1] It seems that it is, because to claim the opposite would be to
 affirm that there is some good order among them. This is proven on the
 grounds that just as restraint and order are characteristic of what is good
 (Augustine, Book on the Nature of Good), lack of order is characteristic
 of the concept of what is bad, and since there is nothing lacking order
 among the good angels, nothing can be ordered among the bad angels.
 Hence, they have to engage in such acts without distinction (and hence
 the statement in Job 10[:22]: “where no order but eternal horror dwells,”
 that is “the land of misery and darkness”).256
 [AG3]Also,if theydonotallengageintheseactswithoutdistinction,
 this is suitable for them as a result of either their nature or their guilt
 or penalty. It is not the result of nature, because, as was mentioned in
 the preceding question, since the introduction of sin all their spirits are
 without distinction impure, though not dirty, in terms of the lessening
 of their natural good qualities, since they are “subtle in evil, desirous
 of harming, swollen through arrogance” and so on. Therefore this is 27B
 suitable for them in terms of guilt or penalty.
 In that case, the argument is as follows. Where the guilt is greater, the
 penalty is greater; the upper angels sinned more and therefore as their
 255 The description in the table of contents (3B) agrees with the subsequent “title” at the start of
 the actual question rather than with this heading.
 256 No Argument 2 follows, though the discussion of Job in the “solutions” section seems to
 be treated as if the Job passage had been discussed as a second argument rather than within
 Argument 1 (see 29B–C with n. 263).
134
 The Hammer of Witches 27B–D
 penalty they have to be more engaged in these filthy acts. If this is not
 so, another reason will be given for why they do not engage in those acts
 without distinction.
 [AG4]Also, everyone works without distinction in a situation where
 there is no subordination and obedience, and among the demons there
 is no subordination and obedience. This is proven on the grounds that
 subordination and obedience cannot be maintained without harmony,
 but among the demons there is no harmony (Proverbs 13[:10]: “Among
 the arrogant there are always quarrels”).
 [AG5]Also, because of guilt they are held in the misty air for the sake
 of their duty257 before the Day of Judgment in the same way that they
 will all be equally cast down into Hell after that day. Since no passage
 anywheresaysthatthereisanyinequalityintermsoftheirimprisonment,
 there is also no inequality in terms of duty and temptation.
 27C
 27D
 [SC 1] But to the contrary, the gloss on 1 Corinthians 15[:40] says: “As
 long as the world lasts, angels are in charge of angels, men in charge of
 men, demons in charge of demons.”
 [SC 2] Also, Job 41[:6–8] speaks of the scales of Leviathan, and by
 this the limbs of the Devil are meant because one clings to another.
 Therefore, there is a difference among them both of order and action.
 The incidental question is raised as to whether the good angels some
times impede the demons from carrying out their filthy acts or not. It
 should be said that because the angels are called powers to whose juris
diction the hostile virtues are subordinate, as is said by Gregory [Homily
 on the Gospels 2.34.10] and Augustine (The Trinity 3[3.4]: “The spirit
 of life that is a deserter and sinner is ruled by the spirit of life that is
 rational, pious and just.”), and just as those creatures that are more per
fect and closer to God have influence over the others, since the entire
 order of precedence is at first and originally in God and all creatures
 participate in it according to their greater proximity to Him, therefore
 the good angels, who come closest to God, do have precedence over the
 demons because of their enjoyment of God that the demons lack, and
 the demons are ruled by them.
 When it is insisted that demons do many evil things through the
 means mentioned above, and therefore either they are not impeded
 because they are not subject to good angels who could impede them
 or if they are subject, then since the evil acts that are committed by the
 subjects seem to imply carelessness on the part of the ruler, it seems that
 257 I.e., the demons have been assigned the “job” of tempting and harassing humans until the Day
 of Judgment.
Part I 27D–28B
 135
 there is some carelessness among the good angels, the response is that the
 holy angels are the servants of God’s wisdom, and hence the good angels
 donotentirely restrain the evil entities, whether angels or humans, from
 committing harm in the same way that God’s wisdom permits certain
 evil acts to be committed by bad angels or humans because of the good
 things that He elicits from them.
 [CO] Response. It is a Catholic proposition to claim that among
 demons there is a certain order of internal and external acts, and that
 this is in fact created by a certain ranking of precedence. Hence, certain
 very low demons do perpetrate some filthy acts from which the higher
 ones are excluded because of the nobility of their nature. This is first
 explained in general terms on the basis of the threefold appropriateness
 that makes such acts appropriate for their nature, God’s wisdom and
 their particular evil, and then it is explained specifically on the basis of
 nature.
 It is agreed that from the beginning of creation some have always been
 superior to others by nature, since they differ among themselves in kind,
 andnotwoangelsofasinglekindexist, according to the more common 28A
 view. This view does accord with the words of the philosophers and of
 Dionysius, who maintains (The Heavenly Hierarchy, Ch. 10 [10.2]) that
 thefirst,middleandlastbelongtothesameorder.Weareobligedtoagree
 with this both because of their non-material nature and also because of
 their lack of physical body. Let anyone who wishes to examine the words
 of the DoctorintheCommentaryonPronouncements,Bk.2,Dist.3[Sent.
 2.3.1.4.Co.]. Because sin cannot change nature and the demons did not
 lose their natural gifts after the fall, as was discussed above,258 and their
 workings on things follow the natural conditions of those things, they
 are various and manifold in their workings, just as they are in nature.
 It is also in accordance with God’s wisdom that those things that
 have been ordained by God exist (Romans 13[:1]: “the things that are
 from Godare set in order”).259 Because the demons have been delegated
 by God to train humans and to punish the damned, in their acts of
 training humans from without, they are varied and adopt many forms
 with reference to humans.
 It is also in accordance with their evil. Since they oppose the human
 race, when they attack it in an orderly manner, they think that they 28B
 cause humans more harm, as in fact they do.
 258 22C.
 259 This is how one would take the sentence as quoted by the scholastics. It means something
 rather different if read in context.
136
 The Hammer of Witches 28B–D
 Hence, it is agreed that they engage in those most unspeakably filthy
 acts on an unequal basis. This can be stated even more definitely by the
 following reasoning. Since the working of a thing follows its nature, as
 has been said, it is fitting that the workings of all those whose nature is
 subordinate should also be subordinate to one another, as is clearly the
 case with bodily objects. Since the lower bodies are, by the natural order,
 below the heavenly bodies, their actions and motions are subordinated
 to the actions and motions of the heavenly bodies, and because, as has
 been said, the demons differ among themselves by the natural order, for
 this reason they also differ in natural actions, both internal and external,
 especially in carrying out filthy acts of this kind.
 28C
 28D
 Fromthesefacts,itisconcludedthatbecausefilthyactsofthiskindare
 mostly carried out in violation of the nobility of the angels’ nature, since
 amonghumanactstheseactsareheldtobeverylowandmostfoulwhen
 considered in their own right, and not in regards to the duty of nature
 and procreation, and also because some demons are believed to have
 fallen out of every order,260 it is not inappropriate to claim that those
 demons whoare from the lowest choir and also those who are lowest in
 it are delegated by the others to perform and engage in these filthy acts.
 It should be especially noted that although Scripture speaks of women
 plagued by incubi and succubi, nowhere does it say that when they
 made themselves incubi and succubi demons, they committed wrong
 in connection with any vices that are contrary to nature. This refers
 not only to the vice of sodomy but to any other vice outside of the
 proper receptacle. This shows the huge enormity of such sinful acts,
 since without distinction all demons of any rank shun the commission
 of them and consider it shameful. This seems to be the meaning of the
 gloss on Ezechiel 16[:27], where it says, “I will give you into the hands of
 the Philistines,261 that is, of the demons who even blush at your criminal
 path.” The gloss understands a vice against nature, and to anyone who
 looks it is clear what the authority understands regarding demons. For in
 connection with many people God has condemned no sin so often with
 the death of damnation. Some also say– and it is true to believe it– that
 no one possessing such a fault who persists in it beyond the length of
 Christ’s mortal life, which reached the age of thirty-three, can be freed
 except by the specific Grace of the Redeemer. This is clear from the fact
 that menofeightyoronehundredyearsareoftenfoundensnaredinthat
 crime, and since the period of Christ’s life provided the discipline for
 260 I.e., hierarchical rankings among the angels (see Pt. ii,n.489).
 261 Actually, “. . . into the hands of the Philistine daughters who hate you.”
Part I 28D–29B
 137
 their character, once they have spurned Him, His discipline will scarcely
 ever restrain them from committing this crime without the very greatest
 difficulty.
 Their names also show that there in fact is order among them for
 the purpose of their external duties involving harassment. Although one
 single name (“the Devil”) is expressed in many ways in the Scriptures
 (because of their divergent characteristics), nonetheless it is the tradition
 of the Scriptures that a single one presides over these dirty works in
 the same way that a single one oversees certain other vices. For it is
 the practice of Scripture and of regular speech to name any unclean
 spirit “devil” (“diabolus”) from “dya,” that is, “two,” and “bolus,” that
 is, “morsel,” because he kills two things, the body and the soul. This
 accords with the etymology, though in Greek “diabolus” means “closed
 in a prison,” (and this is appropriate for him because he is not allowed to
 cause harmtotheextentthathewouldwishto),orasif“diabolus”means
 “down flowing,” because he “flowed down,” that is, he fell in kind and 29A
 in location.262 He is also named “demon,” that is, “knowledgeable about
 blood,” or“bloody,”namelywithreferencetothesinsthathethirstsafter
 and causes with the three sorts of knowledge in which he is proficient
 (the subtlety of his nature, his experience of different times and the
 revelation of good spirits). He is also named “Belial,” which is translated
 as “without yoke,” or “withoutlordship,” because he struggles to the best
 of his ability against the One to Whom he ought to be subordinate. He
 is also called “Beelzebub,” which is translated as “man of flies,” that is,
 “of the sinning souls” that abandoned the true bridegroom, Christ. Also,
 “Satan,” that is, “opponent” (hence, in 1 Peter 5[: 8] “Your opponent, the
 Devil, goes around...”). Also, “Behemoth,” that is, “beast,” because he
 makes humansbeasts. Nonetheless, as the demon of fornication and the
 prince of that filthy act he is called “Asmodaeus,” which is translated
 as “making of judgment,” because a terrible judgment was made on
 Sodom and four other cities on account of such vice. Similarly the
 demon of arrogance is called “Leviathan,” which is translated as “their
 addition,” because when he tempted the first ancestors to arrogance, 29B
 Lucifer promised them the addition of divinity. About him the Lord
 also spoke through Isaiah (27[:1]), “I shall punish the Leviathan, the
 old and contorted snake.” The demon of greed and wealth is called
 262 All of these etymologies are false. “Diabolus” in Greek means “slanderer” (literally, someone
 who sets people at variance with each other) and was used in the Septuagint Greek translation
 of the Bible to render the Hebrew “Satan,” which is in origin not a name but a common noun
 whose sense is indicated by the Greek translation.
138
 The Hammer of Witches 29B–D
 “Mammon,” and Christ also mentioned him in a Gospel (Matt. 6[:24]:
 “You are unable to serve God...”.
 29C
 29D
 As for the arguments.
 [RA 1] As for the first, because good can be found without evil but
 evil is never found without good, since it is poured over a creation that is
 inherently good, therefore to the extent that demons have a good nature,
 they are inorderwithregardstoboththeirnaturalgifts andtheir actions.
 [RA 2] As for the passage in Job 10, it can be said that demons are
 delegated to train humans not in Hell but in this misty air, and hence
 they haveanorderamongthemselveshere,whichtheywillnothavelater
 in Hell.263 Or it can also be said that even now all order ceases among
 them in terms of acquiring this blessedness, since they have irretrievably
 fallen from such order. It can also be said that even in Hell there will
 be an order consisting of authority and the infliction of penalties, to the
 extent that some and not others will be delegated to afflict souls, but
 like their torments this will be an order imposed by God rather than by
 themselves.
 [RA 3] As for the third (the one in which it is said that because they
 havesinnedmoreandarebeingpunishedmore,thehigherdemonsought
 to engage in these dirty acts more), the response is that because guilt is
 put in order by the penalty and not bytheactorworkingofnature, their
 failure to engage in these dirty acts results from their nobility of nature
 and not from their guilt or punishment. Although they are all impure
 spirits that are desirous of causing harm, a given one is more so than
 another to the extent that his greater natural gifts have been shrouded
 in darkness.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth, it is said that among demons there is a
 harmony that relates not to friendship but to the wickedness that causes
 them to hate humans and rebel against God’s justice as far as they can.
 For among the impious is found a kind of harmony by which they
 attach and subordinate themselves to those whom they perceive to be
 more powerful in order to carry out their own wickedness.
 [RA 5] As for the fifth, although imprisonment is assigned to them
 on an equal basis at the present time in the air and in the future in
 Hell, nonetheless natural gifts are not for this reason ordained among
 263 Thereis noindication in the text to mark Counter-argument 2, andlikewise there is no markof
 Argument 2 in 27A. Later editions emended the text to mark out this paragraph as the missing
 second counter-argument. Perhaps there was an intention to make the argument concerning
 the Job passage a second argument but this intention was not fully implemented. Conceivably
 the erroneous numbering is the result of inadequate adaptation of an unknown intermediate
 source.
Part I 29D
 139
 them on an equal basis for the purpose of making the punishments and
 duties equal. Rather, the more noble they are in nature and powerful in
 duty, the more severe is the torment to which they are subject. Hence
 Wisdom 6[:7]:264 “The powerful shall suffer torments powerfully.”265
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 4:
 Aq., Sent. 2.6.1, 4
 Summa 1.10.9.2]
 there is, therefore, a question about the
 influences of the heavenly bodies, in which
 three other errors are refuted, and this is
 question five
 For a fuller explanation of the foregoing, it is also necessary to counter
 certain objections that are raised. The question concerns five sorts of
 explanations for the works of sorcerers. There is a refutation of four of
 these explanations, on the basis of which they cannot have influence,
 and a conclusion about the fifth, the virtue of the intellect, on the basis
 of which they are able to have an influence (although good by nature,
 this virtue is evil by inclination).266 The four explanations are refuted as
 a rebuttal of those who deny the existence of both sorceresses and their
 works, and these explanations are the influences of the heavenly bodies,
 the movers of those bodies and orbs, the growing evil of humans, and
 the effectiveness of images, characters and words.267
 264 See n. 11.
 265 Quoted by Aquinas (Summa 1.2.73.10.SC), but with reference to sinners in general rather than
 demons in particular.
 266 The phrases “they cannot have influence/they have influence” are rather unclear. The subject
 is apparently the “works of sorceresses,” and the argument of this question seems to suggest
 that the sense of “have influence” is really nothing more than “arise.” The Latin expression
 “influence” literally means “flowing in,” and it would seem that here the sense of “influence”
 is not that of an external factor causing some outcome (that is, the “influence” of the celestial
 bodies referred to frequently in this question) but instead signifies the idea that the evil works
 of sorceresses are “imported” as it were by the malignant interference of demons in human
 behavior.
 267 The four topics laid out here are treated in due order in the “response” section: 1) heavenly
 bodies in 31C–34D, 2) the movers of them in 34D–35D, 3) growing evil in 36A–37A, and 4)
 the efficacy of images etc. in 37A–D, but the formulation of the question follows a different
 conception. While the initial title and arguments concern the issue of whether the increase in
 sorcery is to be ascribed to the heavenly bodies or increasing human evil, rather than to demons,
 the headingthatprecedes theintroductory paragraph refers only to topic (1) and the three errors
 that are rebutted in it (as noted in 31C). The fourfold scheme laid out here is developed only in
30A
 140
 The Hammer of Witches 30A–B
 [TT] WHETHER a Catholic can in any way hold the view that
 the origin and increase in number of sorcerers’ works derives from the
 influences of the heavenly bodies or from the superabundant evil of
 humans, and not from the filthy acts of incubus and succubus demons.
 [AG 1] It seems that it derives from humans’ own evil. For Augustine
 says in the Book of Eighty-Three Questions [4] that the cause of man’s
 depravity goes back to his will, whether this will has been rendered
 depraved at someone’s urging or at no one’s. The sorcerer is rendered
 depraved by sin, and therefore the cause of it is not the Devil but human
 will. To the same effect, he says about free will that everyone is the cause
 of his ownevil. This is proven by reason, too. A human’s sin derives from
 free will, but the Devil cannot impel free will. For this would contradict
 freedom. Therefore, the Devil cannot be the cause of that or any other
 sin.
 30B
 [AG 2] Also, in the book Ecclesiastical Dogmas [82] it says, “Not all
 our evil thoughts are set in motion by the Devil, but sometimes they
 arise from the impetus of our will.”
 [AG3]Next,it is proven as follows that they can come from the influ
ences of the heavenly bodies and not from demons. Every multiform
 phenomenon goes back to some uniform beginning in the same way
 that every aggregate group goes back to one individual. Human acts are
 various and multiform in terms of both vices and virtues. Therefore, it
 seems that the impellers and the impelled go back to some beginning in
 a uniformmanner.Suchabeginningcanbeascribedonlytothemotions
 of the heavenly bodies, which are uniform. Therefore, these bodies are
 the causes of such actions.
 [AG 4] Also, if heavenly bodies were not the cause of human actions
 in terms of virtues and vices, astrologers would not so often foretell the
 truth about the outcomes of wars and other humanacts. Therefore, they
 are in some way the cause.
 [AG5]Also,heavenlybodiesaremovedbyspiritualsubstancesaccord
ing to all theologians and philosophers, and those spirits are above our
 souls in the same way that the heavenly bodies are above our bodies.
 Therefore, both are able at the same time to make an impression on a
 man’s soul and body in order to cause any human acts.
 the “response” section, which covers rather more than the heading, title and initial arguments
 suggest, and perhaps the easiest explanation is that this introduction was added once it was
 realized that the “response” covered more issues than were originally intended, but the overall
 framework of the question was left modified in its original, narrower conception. In any case,
 this introduction certainly must have caused confusion among early-modern readers, as it was
 omitted in later editions.
Part I 30C–31A
 141
 [AG6]Also,heavenly bodies can makeanimpressiononthedemons 30C
 themselvesinordertocausecertainactsofsorcery,andthereforeafortiori
 on humans themselves. This claim is proven on three grounds.
 [AG 6A] First, certain humans that are called lunatics are possessed
 by demons at one time more than another, and the demons would not
 do this but instead would harass them all the time, if it were not the case
 that at certain phases of the moon the demons themselves are disturbed
 in such a way as to make them inflict harm of this kind.
 [AG6B]Thisisalsoprovenfromthecaseofnigromantics,whowatch
 for certain configurations of stars in order to invoke demons, which they
 would not do if they did not know that those demons were subject to
 the heavenly bodies. It is also proven from the fact that according to
 Augustine (City of God,Bk.10 [10.11]), demons are warded off by certain
 lower bodies, namely plants, stones, living beings and certain specific
 sounds, words and drawings. Since heavenly bodies are endowed with
 greater virtue than are lower bodies, the latter are all the more warded
 off by the actions of heavenly bodies. Sorcerers, in turn, are even further
 subordinated, so that their works derive from the influences of those
 bodies and not from the assistance of evil spirits.
 [AG6C]This argumentisstrengthenedonthebasisof1Sam.16[:23], 30D
 where Saul, who was being harassed by a demon, was given relief when
 David plucked a lyre in his presence and the evil spirit left.
 [SC 1] But the contrary is the case. It is impossible to bring about
 an effect without its cause, and the works of sorcerers are such that
 they can happen only through the work of demons. This is clear from
 the description of the works of sorcerers in Isidore (Etymologies,Bk.8
 [8.9.9]): “They are called sorcerers [“malefici” or “evildoers”] because of
 the enormity of their misdeeds. For they stir up the elements, throw
 the minds of men into confusion, and without the drinking of any
 poison and merely through the force of their chants kill souls...” Such
 effects cannot be caused on the basis of the influences of heavenly bodies
 through the mediation of a human.
 [SC2]Also,in[Eudemian]Ethics [8.2] the Philosopher examines with
 difficulty the question of what the start of the working in the soul is,
 and shows that it ought to be something external. For everything that
 starts from scratch has some cause. A human begins to work because he
 wishes to, and he begins to wish to because he is won over in advance. If
 he is won over in advance because of some pre-existing plan, therefore 31A
 either this means going on without end or it is appropriate to posit
 some external start that first impels the human to adopt the plan, unless
142
 The Hammer of Witches 31A–C
 perchance someone says that this is the result of chance, from which
 it would follow that all human acts are fortuitous, which is ridiculous.
 Therefore, he says that in the case of good acts the start of good actions
 is God, Who is not the cause of sin. On the other hand, in the case
 of bad acts, when a human begins to wish to act and is won over for
 sinning, it is appropriate that there should also be some external cause
 for this, and there can be no other cause but the Devil, especially in
 the case of sorcerers, as was explained above,268 because a heavenly body
 cannot have an influence to cause such actions. Therefore, the truth is
 clear.
 31B
 31C
 [SC 3] Also, the motion that is caused by the moving force is also
 subject to the power of the one to whose power the moving force is itself
 subject. The moving force of the will is something grasped by sense or
 by intellect, both of which are subject to the power of the Devil. For
 Augustine says in the Book of Eighty-Three Questions [12], “This evil,”
 namely what comes from the Devil, “creeps in through all the avenues
 of sensing. It allows itself to take shapes, it adorns itself in colors, it
 clings to sounds, it lurks in anger and in the lying of conversation, it
 subordinates itself to smells, it suffuses itself with flavors and fills all the
 paths of intelligence with certain clouds.” Therefore, it seems that it is
 in the power of the Devil to set the will in motion, which is directly the
 cause of sin.
 [SC 4] Also, everything that relates to one of two courses needs some
 determining factor for that which results in action. A human’s free will
 relates to one of two courses, that is, to good and evil. Therefore, for
 that which results in the act of sin it needs to be determined towards
 evil by someone, and it seems that this is done most of all by the Devil,
 especially in connection with the works of sorcerers, since his will is
 determined towards evil. Therefore, it seems that the Devil’s evil will is
 the cause of an evil will, especially in the case of sorcerers. This reasoning
 can be strengthened by the consideration that an evil angel relates to evil
 as a good angel relates to good. While the latter leads humans to good,
 the former leads them to evil. “For it is,” as Dionysius says [Heavenly
 Hierarchy 4.3], “an immovably fixed law of the Divinity that the lowest
 things should be completed by the highest.”
 [CO] Response. Because the question as to the origin of the works of
 sorcerers is based upon the influence of the luminous bodies of Heaven,
 it is shown that this is not possible through the refutation of the three
 268 I.e., in SC 1.
Part I 31C–32A
 143
 errors (those of astrologers, casters of horoscopes, and the people who
 posit an order of fated events) that attempt to make this claim.269
 As to the first. If it is asked whether the vice of sorcerers is caused in
 humans as a result of the impression of the luminous bodies in Heaven,
 then while paying attention to the diversity of character and preserving
 the truth of theFaith, it is appropriate to pursue the discussion under the
 distinction that the idea that the character of humans is caused by the
 constellations can be understood in two ways. Either it is a necessary and
 sufficient cause or a conditional one that gives a tendency. If the first is
 stated, then this is not only false but heretical, because it is so contrary
 to the Christian religion that the truth of the Faith cannot even be saved
 amid such an error.
 Explanation. Everything happens obligatorily because of the constel
lations, it destroys merit and consequently demerit. In addition, because
 respectability in character is predetermined on the basis of this error in
 that the guilt of the sinner devolves upon the constellations, licence to 31D
 commitevil without censure is granted, and man is compelled to pray to
 and worship the constellations. If, on the other hand, one says that the
 character of humans is varied by the dispositions of the constellations in
 a conditional way that creates a tendency, then this can be true, since it is
 contrary neither to reason nor to the Faith. For it is clear that the varying
 disposition of the body greatly contributes to the variation of the desires
 and character of the soul. For the most part, the soul very much imitates
 the temperaments270 of the body, as is said in Six Principles, and for
 this reason, the choleric are prone to anger, the sanguine are generous,
 the melancholic are envious and the phlegmatic are indolent. This is
 not necessarily so, however. For the soul is the master of its body, espe
cially when it is helped by Grace. For we see that many choleric people
 are mild, and melancholic ones generous. Since, therefore, the virtue of
 the heavenly bodies works the admixture and constitution of the tem
peraments, it is the case that as a consequence it in some way works
 upon the nature of character, though from a great distance. For the 32A
 virtue of the lower nature has more effect on the constitution of the
 temperament than does the virtue of a constellation. Hence, in solving a
 certain question about two brothers who would get sick and be cured at
 269 The rebuttal of these three views is mentioned in the heading to the question and forms the
 substance of the discussion of topic one (influence of the heavenly bodies) in the introductory
 paragraph (29D).
 270 “Temperament” is used to translate complexio, which refers to the sort of personality or dispo
sition that results from the mixture in a given person of the humors of bile, black bile, blood
 and phlegm.
144
 The Hammer of Witches 32A–C
 the sametime,Augustine(CityofGod,Bk.5[5.5])commendsthereason
ing of Hippocrates rather than that of the astrologer. For Hippocrates
 answered that this happened because of a similarity of temperament,
 and the astrologer answered that it happened because of an identical
 configuration of stars. The physician gave a better explanation since the
 reason he gave was more specific and direct. Therefore, one should say
 that the impressions of the constellations in some way give a disposition
 towards the evil of sorcerers, since there predominates in their bodies a
 certain influence towards such unspeakable acts rather than towards any
 other works, whether sinful or virtuous, though this disposition ought
 not to be called obligatory, proximate and sufficient but removed and
 conditional.
 32B
 32C
 It is invalid if someoneraisesasanobjectionthepassageofthePhiloso
pher in his book The Properties of Elements,271 where he says that king
doms have been emptied and lands depopulated at the conjunction of
 Jupiter andSaturn,arguingasifitwerethecasethat,becausesuchthings
 depended upon the free will of humans, the influences of the luminous
 bodies in Heaven also had an effect on free will. The response is that
 the Philosopher does not wish to imply by this statement that those
 people were unable to resist that configuration of stars, which caused a
 tendency towards disagreement, but acted in this way because they did
 not wish to resist it, since, as Ptolemy says in the Almagest, the wise man
 will be master of the stars.272 For although the conjunction of Jupiter
 and Saturn could incline humans to quarreling or discord, since Saturn
 has an evil and melancholy influence, and Jupiter has a very good one,
 humans are nonetheless able to resist that inclination by free will– very
 easily with the help of the Grace of God.
 Again, it is not valid if someone raises as an objection the statement
 of John of Damascus (Bk. 2, Ch. 6 [actually, Exposition of the Orthodox
 Faith 2.7]), where he says, “Many times comets and certain tokens of
 the death of kings are established.” For the answer is that whether or
 not one follows the view of John of Damascus, who had, as is clear in
 the aforementioned book, a view contrary to the philosophical path, no
 conclusion is reached thereby with reference to the necessity of human
 acts. For John of Damascus’ view is that a comet neither is naturally
 generated nor is one of the stars placed in the firmament, and hence
 neither its meaning nor its influence is natural. For he says that comets
 271 A work falsely ascribed to Aristotle; the passage cited is unknown.
 272 This phrase was commonly attributed to Ptolemy, but it does not appear in the Almagest and
 its ultimate origin is unknown (the citation here derives from Aquinas).
Part I 32C–33A
 145
 do not belong to the group of stars created in the beginning, but by
 divine command are established in accord with the specific occasion
 and are again dissipated. This is John of Damascus’ view. Furthermore,
 Goduses such asign to foreshadow the death of a king rather than those
 of other people, both because the king’s person is of general import, and
 because a disturbance of the kingdom can arise from this event. The
 angels are more concerned about guarding the kingdom for the sake of
 the common good, and by their assistance comets are both created and
 dissipated.
 Nor is any obstacle furnished by the view of the philosophers, who
 say that a comet star is a warm, dry impression made in the upper part
 of the air because of fire, and that the body of the star appears unitary
 as a result of the fire’s warm and dry heat and the circle made by that
 heat. Furthermore, parts of that heat, being scattered around the circle
 and extending far off, are connected to the circle at their ends as its hair,
 and according to this theory it signifies and causes, not by itself but
 as an incidental result, a fatal condition that derives from hot and dry
 illnesses. Since, as is often the case, rich men are nourished by warm, 32D
 dry food, therefore at such a time many rich men die, and among them
 the death of kings and princes is more noticeable.
 Neither does this theory differ from that of John of Damascus, if one
 considers it carefully, except in regards to the working and co-operation
 of the angel, which not even the philosophers can rule out. Rather, while
 the vapors of heat did not co-operate towards the creation of the comet
 in their dryness and warmth, they would still often have to co-operate
 with the aforementioned reasons through the working of an angel, just
 like thestarthatsignifiedthepassingawayofSt.Thomas,whichcertainly
 did not jump forth from the upper stars placed in the firmament, but
 was formed from some pre-existing material through the working of an
 angel and was again dissipated once its task was completed.273
 Hence, we see that according to none of those views do the luminous
 bodies of Heaven have any dominion at all over free will, and therefore
 by consequence neither do they have any over the evil and the habits of
 humans.
 Note also why the astrologers so often foretell the truth and that their
 judgments turn out, as is very often the case, to be correct about a single
 province or the people of a single land. There is an explanation for 33A
 273 According to the addition to Golden Legend 214, Aquinas died at the Cistercian monastery of
 Nova Fossa while journeying to a general council being held at Lyon, and thirty days before his
 death there appeared above that monastery a comet, which then disappeared upon his death.
146
 The Hammer of Witches 33A–C
 this. Because they take their judgments from the stars, which also have
 a greater influence (understanding the influence to be more probable,
 not causal) in connection with acts of nature than those of the will and
 more in connection with the general acts of humans, such as those of a
 single people or province, than in connection with the specific acts of
 a single person, because a greater impression from the stars is made on
 the entirety of a single people than on a single individual and because
 the majority of a single people follows the natural desires of the body
 more than does a single individual, therefore and so on. (This has been
 a tangential discussion.)
 33B
 33C
 The second way by which this Catholic claim of ours is explained is
 through refuting the errors of horoscope casters and those astrologers
 who worship the goddess of fortune.274 About them Isidore says (Ety
mologies9[actually,8.9.23–24]:“Theyarecalledhoroscopecasters[“gene
taliaci”] because of their consideration of the birth stars, but are com
monly called astrologers [“mathematici”].” “Fortune,” as he says in the
 samebook(Ch.2[actually, 8.11.94]), “is said to derive its name from for
tuitous events as if it were some goddess who plays games with human
 affairs through various happenstances and fortuitous events. Hence,
 they also call her blind, because she bumps indiscriminately into ran
dom people and comes to both the good and the bad without any
 consideration of their deserts.” But just as it is idolatry to believe in
 such a goddess or to believe that the harm to bodies or creatures that is
 inflicted as a result of the works of sorcerers derives not from the sor
cerers themselves but from this goddess of fortune, so too is it alien not
 only to the Faith but even to the common tradition of the philosophers
 to claim that these sorceresses were born in order that such practices
 can be carried out by them in the world. If someone wishes to, let him
 examine the Saintly Doctor (Summa Against the Gentiles Bk. 3,Q.87
 and the following ones) and he will find more discussion. For the sake
 of those who perhaps have no access to books it seems that the following
 point should not be omitted. As is noted in that passage, there are in
 man three things that are guided by three heavenly causes, namely the
 act of the will, the act of the intellect and the act of the body, and of
 them the first alone is guided directly by God, the second by an angel,
 and the third by a heavenly body. For the choices and decisions of the
 will are guided directly by God in connection with good works, as the
 274 This is somewhat misleading, as this section actually concerns the refutation of the horoscope
 casters, the second topic laid out in 31C. The third refutation (of the proponents of fate) follows
 in 33D–34D.
Part I 33C–34A
 147
 Scripture says: “The heart of the king,” understand: the greater the force
 with which he seems to be able to resist, the more unable are the others
 to resist, because it “is in the hand of the Lord and He will incline it
 wherever He will wish to” (Proverbs 21:1). And the Apostle says: “It is
 Godwhobringsaboutinyouthewishandthecompletioningoodwill”
 [Philippians 2:13].
 On the other hand, human intellectual knowledge is set in order by
 Godwith angels acting as intermediaries, while those things coming for
 the benefit of manthat pertain to the bodily aspects, whether external or
 internal, are distributed by God through the intervention of angels and
 heavenly bodies. For St. Dionysius says (Divine Names,Bk.4 [4.4]) that
 heavenly bodies are the causes of the things that happen in the world,
 though they bring no obligation. Since man is set in order under the
 heavenlybodiesintermsofhisbody,andunderthatoftheangelsinterms
 ofhisintellect, butunderGodintermsofhiswill,itcanhappenthatafter
 spurning God’s inspiration to good and the good angel’s enlightenment,
 manis led by bodily desire towards those things to which the influences 33D
 of the luminous bodies of heaven incline him, with the result that in this
 way both will and intellect are wrapped up in evil and errors. Moreover,
 it is not possible to be wrapped up in such errors as the ones in which
 the sorcerers are ensnared as a result of the influences of the luminous
 bodies of heaven, though a weak person could be inclined to shed blood
 or to commit acts of thievery or to brigandry or even to the worst acts
 of sexual licentiousness, just as he could also be inclined to certain other
 natural acts. Also, as William says in The Universe– this can be grasped
 through experience– if a prostitute strives to plant an olive tree, it is not
 rendered fruitful, but if it is planted by a chaste woman, it is.275 Also,
 a doctor in healing or a farmer in planting or a soldier in attacking a
 town achieves as a result of the impression of a heavenly body things
 that others having the same arts cannot achieve.
 The third way is taken from the refutation of the effects of fate.276
 Here it should be noted that to claim in one manner that fate exists is a
 Catholic proposition, and to claim this in another manner is altogether
 heretical. If it is thought that fate exists according to the position of
 certainpagans and of certain astrologers, who thought that a difference 34A
 in character is invariably caused as a result of the force of the position of
 the constellations, so that such a person would be necessarily rendered
 a sorcerer [“evil-doer”] or a person virtuous in character because he was
 275 Passage unknown.
 276 This is the third view to be rebutted, as laid out in 31C.
148
 The Hammer of Witches 34A–C
 caused to be such by the force that was contained in the arrangement of
 the constellations under which hewasconceivedorborn.Thisforcethey
 called “fate.” But because this view is not only false but also heretical and
 altogether accursed because of the inappropriate notions that necessarily
 follow, as was mentioned above in the refutation of the first error, in that
 the system of merit and demerit, or rather of Grace and glory, would
 be destroyed, and because God would be responsible for our evils and
 many other reasons, accordingly, fate is altogether refuted as being non
existent. According to this understanding Gregory says in the Homily on
 Epiphany [Homily on the Gospels 1.10]: “Far be it from the hearts of the
 faithful to say that there is such a thing as fate.” Although this view seems
 to be the same as the first, which is that of the astrologers, (because of
 34B
 34C
 the same inappropriate notions that can be seen in each), nonetheless
 they are different in that the force of the constellations and the general
 influence of the seven planets277 are distinguished from one another. If,
 on the other hand, it is considered that fate is a certain arrangement
 or ordering of secondary causes intended to produce certain effects for
 which provision has been made by God, in this way there is such a
 thing as fate, because the providence of God achieves its effects through
 intermediate causes, that is, in connection with those things that are
 subject to secondary causes, though not in connection with other things
 like creation, the glorification of souls and the bestowal of Grace. Still,
 angels can also co-operate towards the infusion of Grace by enlightening
 andarrangingtheintellectandthecapabilityofthewill,andinthiswaya
 certain ordering of effects is called one and the same thing as providence
 or even fate. For if this ordering of effects is considered to reside in
 God, as it does, then in this way it is called providence. If it is in the
 intermediate causes set in order by God to produce certain effects, then
 in this wayit contains the notion offate. Thus, Boethius says in speaking
 of fate (Consolation,Bk.4 [4.6]), “Fate is an arrangement, inherent in
 moveable things, by which providence binds together individual events
 with its own orderings.” Nonetheless, the Holy Doctors refrained from
 using this term because of those men who twisted it to mean the force of
 the positioning of the constellations. Hence, Augustine says, “If anyone
 ascribes human affairs to fate because he calls the very will or power of
 God fate, let him restrain his thought and correct his tongue” (City of
 God,Bk.5 [5.1]).
 277 I.e., the five planets visible to the naked eye (Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn) plus the
 sun and moon.
Part I 34C–35A
 149
 It is also clear that the foregoing discussion provides the implicit
 response to the question of whether all things are subject to fate and
 whether the works of sorcerers are also subject to it. If fate is considered
 to be the arrangement of secondary causes for effects provided for by
 God, that is, when God has made a disposition to produce such effects
 through secondary causes, in this way, I say, they are subject to fate, that
 is, they are subject to the secondary causes that have been set in order
 by God, like the influences of the heavenly bodies. On the other hand,
 those things that are done directly by God, like the creation of the world,
 the glorification of spiritual substances and the like, are not subject to
 fate. This is what Boethius means when he says (cited above), that those
 things that are close to the godhead, which is first, surpass the moveable
 order of fate. Hence, because the works of sorcerers are not subordinate 34D
 to secondary causes, since such things happen in a manner surpassing
 the general course and order of nature, they are not by necessity subject
 either to fate or to other causes in terms of their origin.
 Consequently,such acts ofsorcererscannotariseorbecaused
 by the disembodied substances that are the movers of the orbs (the heav
enly bodies).278 Avicenna [The Soul 4.4.64] and his followers adhered
 to this view, being motivated by the following reasoning. Those disem
bodied substances are characterized by a higher virtue than our souls,
 and when it is strong in its imagination, the soul by itself, at the mere
 internal apprehension concerning something external, changes some
times its own body and sometimes someone else’s (an external) body.
 For example, a person walking on a plank placed over the deep readily
 falls because he imagines his fall as a result of fear, but he would not fall
 if that plank were placed on the ground, where he could not fear falling.
 Similarly, at the mere apprehensionof the soul the body grows warm, as 35A
 in the case of people feeling lust or anger, or it also grows cold, as in the
 case of those in fear. It can also be turned to illness, say fever or leprosy,
 as a result of a strong imagination and the fear of such illnesses. It is the
 case with another’s body, just as it is with its own, that that body can be
 changed towards illness or health. He also cites the case of giving the evil
 eye, which was mentioned above. Because according to that position the
 effects of sorceresses would have to be ascribed to the movers of the orbs
 (though not specifically to the heavenly bodies themselves), accordingly
 278 This is the start of the second topic mentioned in the introductory paragraph (29D). The
 “disembodied substances” are the angels that were thought to move the orbs (spheres) to which
 the various celestial bodies were attached and whose bodies revolve around the earth.
150
 The Hammer of Witches 35A–C
 35B
 35C
 let us say, in addition to the statements made in that passage, that it is
 impossible for such things to happen in this way. For while the movers
 of the orbs are substances that are good and intellectual not so much
 by nature as by will, as is clear from their workings for the good of the
 whole universe, that creation by whose help the magical workings take
 place, though good by nature, cannot be good by will, and therefore
 there cannot be the same judgment about both substances. That such a
 substance cannot begoodbywillisprovenasfollows.Tolendpatronage
 to some of the things that are contrary to virtue is not the mark of a
 well disposed intellect, and such things are done in sorcerers’ workings
 of this sort. For, as will become clear in the Part Two of the work, very
 many murders, acts of fornication, and the killings of children and of
 work animals are committed and other such evil acts [maleficia, which
 means both “evil deeds” and “acts of sorcery”] are produced. Hence,
 those who use these arts are called evil-doers [malefici, which also means
 “sorcerers”]. Therefore, such an intellectual nature, on whose help the
 arts of sorceresses rely, is not well disposed by its virtue, though it is
 good by nature, since it can be so and all things desire this, as is clear to
 anyone who examines the topic.
 Likewise, it is not the mark of a well disposed intellect to be friendly
 to criminals and to lend protection to them and not to any people
 who are virtuous, and those who make use of such works of sorcerers
 are criminals, because they are known from their fruits.279 In addition,
 with the help of the substances that move the orbs any creature can
 be inclined to the good by nature, though it is often corrupted inci
dentally.280 Therefore, those substances cannot be the original cause of
 sorceresses.
 Also, it is the mark of a well disposed intellect to restore people to
 those goods that are specific to man, these being the goods pertaining to
 reason. Therefore, to lead humans away from those goods and to drag
 themtoother, very low goods is the mark of aninappropriately disposed
 intellect. Furthermore, throughartsofthiskindpeoplemakenoprogress
 in the goods of reason, which are forms of knowledge and virtues, but
 they do make progress in certain very low goods, such as seizures and
 the practices of brigands and a thousand varieties of harm.281 Therefore,
 279 Reference to Matt. 7:20.
 280 Literally “accidentally,” an “accident” being a term in medieval philosophy for a characteristic
 that is incidental to an entity and not an essential characteristic of it.
 281 This final clause is a distortion of Aquinas, who speaks of the use of magical arts for “the
 discovery of thefts, the arrest of brigands and the like” (Summa against the Gentiles 3.106.4).
Part I 35C–36A
 151
 the origin derives not from the disembodied substances but from some
 other force that is not well disposed by virtue.
 Also, the one who is called upon to bring help to someone through
 the commission of certain crimes is not well disposed in intellect, and
 this is what happens in connection with the arts of sorcerers (as will be
 explained,282 in carrying out these arts they renounce the Faith and kill
 innocent children). For on account of their goodness the disembodied
 substances that are the movers of the orbs do not lend assistance to these
 acts of sorcery.
 In conclusion, arts of this kind cannot arise from the movers of the
 heavenly bodies, just as they are unabletodosofromtheheavenlybodies
 themselves, and since they must arise from some virtue bestowed on 35D
 some creature, and that virtue cannot be good by will (though it is good
 by nature), and such creatures are the demons themselves, what remains
 is the idea that such things happen through the virtue of demons. Unless
 perchance some obstacle is still furnished by the frivolous view that, as
 a result of the co-operation of the evil of humans with the threatening
 words of the sorcerers and with the placement of images in a specific
 location, works follow through some virtue of the stars. For example,
 whenasorcerersayswhileplacingsomeimage,“Iwillmakeyou283 blind”
 or “lame” and this results, then in that case this result would happen
 because such a person would, as a result of his nativity, receive from
 the virtue of the stars such a virtue more than do other humans, and
 however muchother people mayutter the same words and be instructed
 in doing so through training, they still could not be effective in works
 of this kind.284
 In a one-by-one response to these points, it will be explained, first,
 that such effects cannot be caused as a result of the evil of humans, and,
 second, that neither can they be caused as a result of the words of any
 humans with the co-operation of any configuration of stars, even in 36A
 conjunction with images.
 First, it is explained in the following way that sorcerers’ works
 of this kind cannot arise from any amount of human evil.285 Man’s
 The author has converted his reference to the “moral” use of magic into one about uses of it
 for evil purposes.
 282 Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch. 2 (95D–98B).
 283 Referring to a female.
 284 Here the word “nativity” is a technical term from astrology, signifying the character that person
 acquires as a result of the configuration of the stars at the time of his birth.
 285 This is the third topic laid out in the introductory paragraph (29D).
152
 The Hammer of Witches 36A–C
 evil– whether it is habitual, in that, as a result of repeated acts and not
 as a result of ignorance or weakness, someone acquires a habit inclining
 to the commission of sins (accordingly, he is considered to sin as a result
 of evil), or the evil is actual, which is the name for the selection of
 the evil act (this selection also being considered a sin against the Holy
 Spirit)– can never have such an effect on the sorcerer himself that
 such deeds as changes in the elements or injuries to the bodies of either
 humans or work animals (there is no distinction) are produced without
 the assistance of some higher virtue. This is explained first in terms of
 the cause and second in terms of the effect of the sorcery. It is clear that
 what a human cannot bring about with evil, for example through his
 own natural gifts when they are undiminished, this he can achieve even
 less through those natural gifts when they are now diminished, since in
 36B
 36C
 that case his virtue in action is also diminished. A man is diminished in
 his natural gifts through sins committed in any way through evil. This is
 proven by authority and by reason. Dionysius says (Divine Names, Ch. 4
 [4.26]), “Evil is a defect of natural habit”(heisspeakingoftheevilofsin).
 “Hence too no one commits an evil work knowingly; if he does commit
 one, he does so as a result of a defect.” The reason is as follows. The evil
 of sin is in the same relationship to the good of nature as the good of
 Grace is to the evil of nature. By Grace the evil of nature is diminished
 like the stimulus that is the inclination towards guilt. Therefore, the
 good of nature is a fortiori diminished by sin. No obstacle is furnished
 if mention is made of giving the evil eye, which is sometimes brought
 about by the glare or gaze of an evil-minded old woman looking at a
 child, as a result of which the child is changed and receives the evil
 eye, because, as was discussed above,286 in connection with children it is
 only because of their delicate temperament that this can happen. Here,
 however, we are speaking of changes affecting all bodies of any humans
 and workanimals, as well as the changes of the elements resulting in hail
 storms. If someone desires a broader understanding, let him examine
 the Saintly Doctor in Questions about Evil [2.12] as to whether sin can
 corrupt the entire good of nature.
 Next, anexplanationis given intermsoftheeffects of sorcery, since an
 understanding of the cause is reached on the basis of the effects. Those
 effects, in terms of ourselves, that happen in a way that surpasses the
 order of the nature created for us, by virtue of a creation unknown to us,
 286 See 17D–18C.
Part I 36C–37A
 153
 are not properly miracles like those that happen in a way that surpasses
 the order of thewholeofcreatednature, whichareworkedinaccordance
 with His power by Him Who is above the entire order of the whole of
 created nature, that is, Holy God. (According to this understanding, it is
 said, “It is You alone Who make the great miraculous events” [Ps. 76:15;
 cf. 135:4].) The effects of sorcery are, however, called miraculous to the
 extent that they are made by a cause unknown to us and in a way that
 surpasses the order of the created nature known to us.
 Fromthesefacts it is concluded that the bodily virtue of man does not
 extend tocausingsuchacts, since it is always the case that the cause along
 with its natural effect is known in a natural way without astonishment.
 That the effects of sorcery can in some way be called miracles, in that 36D
 they exceedhumanconception,isclearfromtheeffectsthemselves,since
 they do not happen naturally. This is also explained by all the Doctors,
 especially Augustine in the Book of Eighty-Three Questions [79], where
 he says that by magical arts are performed miracles that are generally
 similar to those that are performed by the servants of God. Again, he
 says in the same place, “Magicians perform miracles through private
 agreements, good Christians do so through public righteousness, and
 bad Christians do so through the symbols of public righteousness.” All
 these statements are explained as follows. Divine righteousness has the
 place in the whole universe that public law has in the state, and the
 virtue of a given creature has the same place in the universe as that
 of some private person in the state. Therefore, to the extent that good
 Christians perform miracles through divine righteousness, they are said
 to perform miracles through public righteousness. On the other hand,
 because the magician works as the result of an agreement entered into
 with a demon, he is said to work through the demon, who can, by his
 ownnatural virtue, do something in a waythat surpasses the order of the
 created nature known to us, through the virtue of a creation unknown 37A
 to us. This will be a miracle in terms of us, but not in a straightforward
 way, since he cannot work in a way that surpasses the order of the
 whole of created nature through all the virtues of the creations unknown
 to us. For He alone is said to perform miracles in this way according
 to the statement, “It is You alone, O God, Who perform the great
 miraculous events.” Evil Christians do so through the symbols of public
 righteousness, for instance by invoking the name of Christ or presenting
 some Sacraments. If someone wishes to, let him examine St. Thomas in
 the First Part in Q. 111,Art.4 [actually, Summa 1.110.4]. He can also note
154
 The Hammer of Witches 37A–C
 the arguments that will be produced in the Second Part of the work in
 Chapter Six.287
 Next, that such effects cannot be caused through expressions and words
 with the co-operation of the virtue of the stars, either
 37B
 37C
 Next, that such acts of sorcerers cannot arise or be caused as a
 result of the words of any humans with the co-operation of any configu
ration of stars in connection with any images. Since a human’s intellect
 is of such a disposition that his learning is caused as a result of factual
 matters, it being necessary for the one who understands to view images
 of the fantasy, his condition is not such that as a result of his conception
 (the internal working of his intellect), in a situation where he merely
 expresses that conception through words, he can cause things from the
 outside, or that the conception of his intellect can, when expressed in
 words, change bodies. For people who had such a virtue would not form
 a single category with us but would be called humans in an equivocal
 manner.288
 Also, if it is said that they bring those effects about through words
 with the co-operation of the virtue of the stars from their nativity, as a
 result of which it happens that when they utter the words, they make
 some effect through those words more than other people can, while if
 the others who are present uttered the same words, they could not bring
 about some transformation, because the virtue of the stars from their
 nativity is not at their service, it is clear from the foregoing that these
 statements are false on the basis of the refutation of the three errors
 (those of the astrologers, of the horoscope casters and of those who posit
 an order determined by fate).289
 Also, words express the conception of the mind, and the heavenly
 bodies cannot make an impression on the intellect, nor can the movers
 of those bodies, unless they wished, by themselves and without the
 motionoftheheavenly bodies, to enlighten the intellect.290 (This would
 happen only for the purpose of good works, because the intellect is not
 287 Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch. 6 (111C–114A) The fact that the question is not specified may have to do with
 a change in the threefold division of the work as a whole.
 288 I.e., they would be called humans in name but in fact be different in species. In medieval
 philosophy the term “equivocal” signifies a word that is used to describe several things that are
 similar but do notinfactbelongtothesamedefinitionalcategory;Isidore of Seville (Etymologies
 2.26.2) cites as an example the word “lion,” which can refer to a “real” lion, or a painted or
 sculpted representation of one.
 289 See 31C.
 290 This is the fourth topic laid out in the introductory paragraph (29D).
Part I 37C–D
 155
 enlightened but darkened for the commission of evil deeds, this being
 the duty not of good spirits but of evil ones). Therefore, it is clear that
 if their words bring about some effect, this is not through the force of
 some heavenly body but through the assistance of some virtue of the
 intellect. Even if this virtue is good by nature, it cannot be good by will,
 inasmuch as it always plots for evil. This will be a demon, as was shown
 above.291
 It is also clear that neither can they bring about such effects through
 images, as if the heavenly bodies had some influence on those images.
 Howevermuchsuchimagesaremarkedwithcharactersandfigures,they
 are the result of a human working through art, and the heavenly bodies
 cause natural effects, a category into which the effects of sorcerers do
 not fall, being called “effects of evildoing” since they result in evil for
 creatures contrary to the normal order of nature.292 Hence, they are not
 relevant to the issue.
 Also, it was shown above293 that astrological and magical images are
 twofold,beingordainedfortheacquisitionofsomeprivategoodandnot 37D
 merely for ruination. On the other hand, the images of sorcerers belong
 to an altogether different variety, since it is always for the purpose of
 harmingcreaturesandatthecommandofdemonsthattheyareplacedin
 some location, in order that those who walk or sleep above them should
 be harmed, as the sorceresses themselves confess. Hence it is through
 these demons and not as a result of the influences of the heavenly bodies
 that they bring about whatever they cause.
 As for the arguments.
 [RA 1] As for the first. The statement of Augustine should be under
stood to meanthatthecauseofhumandepravitygoesbacktoman’swill,
 this being the cause that achieves the effect, which is what is properly
 called the cause. On the other hand, this is not the case with the cause
 that permits the result or gives the inclination to it or wins someone over
 to or enjoins it. In these manners, that is, in terms of winning over and
 giving the inclination and enjoining, the Devil is said to be the cause
 of sin and depravity, while God is said to be the cause only in terms
 of permission, since He permits evil things for the sake of good things
 according to Augustine in the Enchiridion [11] (“The devil produces a
 disposition by making an internal suggestion, and persuades by making
 291 See 35D.
 292 Again there is word play in the Latin in that the phrase translated “effects of evildoing” could
 also signify “effects of sorcery.”
 293 Probably a reference to the “nigromantic” and “astronomic” images defined in 19C–D.
38A
 156
 The Hammer of Witches 38A–B
 a keener internal and external stimulus.”). He enjoins those who have
 completely subjected themselves to him, for instance, the sorcerers, who
 have no need to be impelled internally, and so on.
 [RA2]Thisalsoprovidestheresponsetothesecondstatement,namely
 that everyone is the cause of his own evil, if this is understood to mean
 “directly.” As for the proofs, the same response is clear, namely that while
 being impelled by the action of one who enjoins is contrary to freewill,
 to be moved by the action of one who gives the inclination is not.
 [RA3] Asfor the third, the drive toward virtues or vices can be caused
 in terms of inclination by the influences of the heavenly bodies (“drive”
 beingunderstoodasanaturaltendencytowardhumanvirtuesandvices),
 but because the deeds of sorcerers surpass the regular order of nature,
 they cannot be subject to those influences.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth, the same explanation is obvious, in that the
 heavenly bodies are the causes of human acts, but those works were not
 devised by humans.
 38B
 [RA 5] As for the fifth, namely that the movers of the orbs can make
 an impression on souls, if this is understood as happening directly, then
 they make the impression by giving enlightenment towards good and
 not towards evil, as was mentioned above, but if it is understood as
 happening through an intermediary, then they make the impression
 according to the influence of the heavenly bodies in an indirect manner
 that gives rise to an inclination.
 [RA 6A] As for the sixth, the argument that demons harass humans
 according to certain phases of the moon, this happens for two reasons.
 The first is to blacken the reputation of a creation of God, namely the
 moon, as Jerome [Commentary on Matthew on 4:24] and Chrysostom
 [Homily on Matthew 57.3] say. The second is that since they can work
 onlythroughtheinterventionofnaturalvirtues,aswasstatedabove,they
 observe the abilities of bodies to cause effects, and because the brain is
 the dampest of all the parts of the body, as Aristotle [Parts of Animals
 2.7] and all the natural philosophers say, it is especially subject to the
 working of the moon, which, as a result of its characteristic nature, is
 able to set the humors into motion. Moreover, the powers of the soul are
 consummated in the brain, and therefore according to certain phases in
 the moon the demons throw a man’s fantasy into confusion, watching
 for a brain inclined to this.
 [RA 6B] As for the second, the one that the demons arrive when
 summoned under certain configurations of the stars, they do so for two
 reasons. The first is to bring humanstotheerrorofbelieving that there is
Part I 38B–39A
 157
 somegodheadinthestars.Thesecondisthattheyobservethataccording
 to certain configurations of the stars bodily matter is more inclined to 38C
 the effects for which they are summoned.
 [RA 6C] As for the third, the response is that as Augustine says (City
 of GodBk. 36[actually, 21.6]), demons are enticed through various kinds
 of stones, plants, wood, and also charms and musical instruments, not
 like animals by food but like spirits by signs, to the extent that these are
 shown to them as a sign of the divine honor that they themselves desire.
 It is often objected, however, that the demons can be impeded in
 their harassment of humans by means of plants and harmonies, as is
 cited in the argument regarding the relief of Saul by means of the lyre’s
 harmony [1 Sam. 16:14–23], and on this basis they strive to defend the
 proposition that some people could bring about the effects of sorcery by
 means of certain plants and hidden causes, without the aid of demons
 and merely as a result of the influence of the heavenly bodies, which
 are able to influence bodily things to produce bodily effects more than
 they are able to influence the demons to produce the effects of sorcery.
 Therefore, a broader response should be given. It is to be noted that
 while plants and harmonies cannot, by their natural virtue, completely 38D
 shut out the harassment by which the Devil can harass a human if he
 is allowed to by God or the good angels, they can nonetheless lessen
 that harassment (and it could be so small that they could shut it out
 altogether). They would do so not by acting on the demon himself,
 since he is a disembodied spirit against which no body whatsoever can
 act naturally, but by acting on the person harassed by the demon. For
 everycausethathasarestrictedvirtuecanhaveastrongereffectonmatter
 that is disposed than on matter that is not. In agreement with this is the
 statement of the Philosopher: “Acts of agents take place in a recipient of
 the treatmentwhoisalreadyinclined”(TheSoul,Bk.2[2.2]).Ademonis
 an agent of restricted virtue, and therefore the Devil can make a stronger
 harassment in the case of a human inclined to that harassment or to that
 end to whichtheDevil intends to bring him than in the case of a human
 of the opposite inclination. For instance, the Devil can harass a human
 inclined to it more strongly with a treatment of melancholic suffering
 than he can a human of the opposite inclination.
 It is certain that plants and harmonies have a great ability to change
 theinclinationofthebody,andconsequentlythedrivetowardsensuality.
 This is clearly the case with plants, some giving an inclination to joy,
 some to sadness, and so on with the others. This is also made clear with
 reference to harmonies by the Philosopher in Politics,Bk.8 [8.5], where
 39A
158
 The Hammer of Witches 39A–C
 he means that various harmonies are able to produce various treatments
 in a human. Boethius too mentions this in his Music [1.1], as does the
 author of The Birth of the Sciences,294 when in speaking of the usefulness
 of music he says that it has the ability to cure or lessen various illnesses.
 In this way it can be seen that other things being equal, the harassment
 would be weaker.
 39B
 39C
 I do not see how plants or harmonies can cause in a human an incli
nation because of which the human could in no way be harassed by a
 demon,because, even if it were permitted, the Devil could greatly harass
 a human merely by moving in location the vapors and the very spirits
 with an irregular motion. Furthermore, plants or harmonies could not,
 by their natural virtue, cause in a human an inclination by which a
 demonis prevented from creating this disturbing motion. Nonetheless,
 it sometimes happens that the Devil is permitted to harass a human
 only with so small a harassment that by some strong inclination to the
 contrary the harassment is completely taken away, and in that case some
 plants or harmonies could so incline the human’s body to the contrary
 that such harassment would be completely removed. For example, the
 Devil could sometimes harass the humanwiththeharassmentofsadness
 in such a weak way that this sadness would be completely removed with
 some plants or harmonies that could cause a spreading out or diffusion
 of the spirits that are the contrary force impelling the sadness. On the
 other hand, however, Augustine (The Christian Doctrine,Bk.2 [2.20])
 condemns amulets and certain other things about which he writes more
 broadly there, ascribing this to the art of magic, that is, in light of the fact
 that they do not have this ability as a result of their natural virtue. This is
 clear from his statement, “To this category belong all amulets and cures
 which the teaching of physicians condemns.” In this it is clear enough
 that their teaching makes its condemnation in terms of usefulness, and
 with reference to this these cures have no effectiveness on the basis of
 their natural virtue.
 As far as concerns that statement in 1 Sam. 16[:16], that Saul, who
 was being harassed by a demon, was relieved when David plucked the
 lyre in his presence and that the evil spirit withdrew and so on, it should
 be realized that it is quite true that, through the plucking of the lyre,
 Saul’s affliction was somewhat relieved through the natural virtue of that
 harmony, to the extent that by being heard the harmony sweetened his
 desire and through this sweetening he was rendered less suitable for the
 294 Unknown reference.
Part I 39C–40A
 159
 harassment, but the fact that the evil spirit withdrew when David played
 the lyre was caused by the power of the Cross. This is stated explicitly
 enough in the gloss, where it says, “David was learned in musical chants.
 The reasoned and modulated harmony of various sounds signifies the
 Unity of the Church that resounds in various ways everyday. In his lyre
 David chained up the malevolent spirit because there was such force
 not in the lyre but in the Sign of the Cross that was made in the wood
 and the tightening of the chords, that is, the veins, which then put the 39D
 demons to flight.”295
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 5:
 Aq., On Evil 2.12; 3.3, 5; 16.2
 Summa 1.110.4; 1.114.4; 1.115.4, 5; 1.116.1, 2, 4; 1.117.3
 Summa Contra Gentiles 3.103; 3.105; 3.106
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.35]
 there follows a discussion of sorceresses
 subordinating themselves to demons (it is
 question six according to the enumeration)
 AS a third and related difficulty concerning the sorceresses who
 subordinatethemselvestodemons,severaldifficultiescanberaisedabout
 the method of undertaking such filthy acts.296 First, in terms of the
 demonandthebodyassumedbyhim,whichelementthebodyisformed
 from. Second, in terms of the act, whether it is always performed with
 an introduction into the sorceress of seed taken from another man.
 Third, in terms of the time and place, whether he carries out the act
 at one time rather than another. Fourth, whether he acts visibly with
 reference to the by-standers. In terms of the women, whether only those
 who are begotten as a result of such filthy acts are habitually visited by
 demons; second, whether those whoareoffered by midwives to demons 40A
 at thetimeofbirtharesovisited;andthird,whetherthesexualpleasureis
 lessenedinthecaseofsuchwomen.Sincearesponsetoallthesequestions
 is not necessary at the present time because our interest is only in the
 295 This quotation is an adaptation of Rabanus Maurus’s gloss on the biblical passage.
 296 The introductory passage in front of Q. 3 (21A) indicates that the third “difficulty” concerning
 the increase of the Heresy of Sorceresses through demons will concern “sorceresses who sub
ordinate themselves to demons.” Unlike the other questions of Pt. 1, this “difficulty” does not
 take the form of a disputed question, and instead is a simple discussion in three parts.
160
 The Hammer of Witches 40A–B
 generality, and since those questions will be explained individually in
 Part Twooftheworkthroughtheirdeeds,aswillbeexplainedinChapter
 Four,297 where there will be mention of the individual methods, let us
 turn to the second basic topic,298 and first to the question of why this
 form of breach of the Faith is found more often in the delicate sex
 than in males. The first question will be a general one concerning the
 general circumstances of the condition of women,299 the second will be
 a specific one concerning which specific sort of women are found to
 be superstitious and sorceresses,300 and the third will be a particular one
 concerning midwives, who surpass all others in evil.301
 40B
 As for the first,namelywhyalargernumberofsorcerersisfound
 among the delicate female sex than among men, it would certainly not
 be helpful to cite arguments to the contrary,302 since experience itself
 makes such things believable more than do the testimony of words and
 of trustworthy witnesses. Without looking down upon the sex in which
 God has always performed brave deeds in order to confound, let us say
 that while different reasons are given by different people for these facts,
 these reasons always agree in principle. Hence, this topic is quite worthy
 of being preached for the admonition of women– as experience has
 often shown, they are eager to listen– so long as it is propounded with
 circumspection.
 Some Doctors give the following explanation. They say that there
 are three elements in the world that do not know how to maintain a
 middle course in terms of goodness or evil, and instead attain a certain
 pinnacle in goodness or evil when they pass over the boundaries of their
 condition, these three things beingatongue,achurchmanandawoman.
 They do this in goodness when they are ruled by a good spirit, and as a
 result of this they become excellent. They also do this in evil when they
 are ruled by an evil spirit, and as a result of this they are rendered very
 bad.
 297 Actually, Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch.4(105D–114A).Thelistofdeferredtopicsisrepeatedvirtuallyverbatim
 in 105D. It seems that at some point in the composition the material was shifted from Pt. i to
 Pt. ii.
 298 Asstatedin21A,Pt.1discusses the three elements insorcery (the demon,thesorcerer, andGod’s
 permission), and now the second topic is to be treated. This same topic (women subordinating
 themselves to demons) is also described there as a “difficulty” relating to the topic of demons.
 299 Q. 6 (39D–45A).
 300 Qs. 7–11 (see n. 333).
 301 Q. 11 (63C–64C).
 302 Presumably, this means that the usual method of scholastic argumentation is being eschewed.
Part I 40B–D
 161
 This is clear with regards to the tongue, since with its help very
 many kingdoms have been conquered for the Christian Faith, and for 40C
 this reason the Holy Spirit also appeared to the Apostles of Christ in
 f
 iery tongues [Acts 2:3].303 In other wise preachers304 there is manifested
 every day the tongue of the dogs wholick the wounds andsores of feeble
 Lazarus [Luke 16:21] and who tear the souls “from the enemy with the
 tongue of your dogs,” as the passage [Ps. 67:24] says. For this reason,
 the Leader and Father305 of the Order of Preachers is represented in the
 form of a barking dog who holds a burning torch in his mouth, so that
 downtothe present day he has had the task of warding off the wolves of
 heresy from Christ’s flocks of sheep with his barking.306 It is also clear
 fromdaily experience that the slaughter of countless people is sometimes
 prevented by the tongue of a single foresightful man. Because of these
 things Solomon not unjustly sang many songs in praise of it: “On the
 lips of the wise man is wisdom found” (Prov. 10[:13]), and again, “The
 tongue of the just man is choice silver, the heart of the impious is as
 nothing” [verse 20] and again, “While the lips of the just man teach very
 many, those who are unlearned will die amid poverty of heart” [verse
 21]. For this reason, it is added that “It is the role of a human to prepare
 his spirit and of the Lord to govern the tongue” (Prov. 16[:1]).
 Onthetopicoftheeviltongue,youwillfindEcclesiasticus28[:16–17]:
 “The third tongue stirred up many and scattered them from nation to
 nation, destroyed walled cities and ransacked the homes of the mighty.”
 (By “third tongue” is meant the tongue of those who speak in an incau
tious or foul manner in between two opposing parties.)
 Regarding the second category (churchmen), understand the clerics
 andthereligious307 amongeachsex.Onthephrase,“Hethrewthesellers
 and buyers from the temple,” Chrysostom said, “Every evil arises from
 the priesthoods, just as every good does.” Jerome said in the Letter to
 Nepotianus [5], “Flee like the plague a merchant cleric, who has turned
 from a poor man into a rich one and from a low-born man into a
 prestigious one.” St. Bernard, speaking of clerics, says (Homily 23 on
 303 This and the following paragraph are copied over from the source (Nider) and are irrelevant
 to the issue at hand. Perhaps the references to the Dominican Order and to the failings of
 ecclesiastics were pleasing to the author.
 304 I.e., members of the Dominican Order (properly known as the Order of Preachers).
 305 I.e., St. Dominic.
 306 This ugly image is symbolic of the Dominican Order’s mission to hunt out and extermi
nate heretics. The symbolism gave rise to the false derivation of the term “Dominican” (lit.
 “belonging to Dominic”) from the Latin for “dogs of the Lord” (domini canes).
 307 I.e., those who have adopted vows as monks (nuns) or friars.
 40D
162
 The Hammer of Witches 40D–41B
 41A
 41B
 “The Song of Songs” [23:16]), “If an avowed heretic were rising up, he
 would be sent off and would wither away. If a violent enemy did so,
 perhaps the good men would withdraw from him. But in the present
 time, how will they cast away, where will they withdraw?308 All men are
 friends, and yet all are enemies, all are intimate associates and none
 peaceable, all are neighbors and all seek the things that are theirs.”309
 In another passage he says, “Our prelates have become Pilates, and our
 pastors have become fleecers,” and he says of the prelates among the
 religious who impose heavy burdens on those below them, “They would
 not touch the smallest ones with their own finger.”310 Gregory says in
 his Pastoral Book, “No one causes more harm in the Church than one
 whoacts perversely but possesses a recognized reputation for saintliness.
 For no one presumes to rebuke him when he does wrong, and his guilt
 turns into a forceful example when a sinner is honored out of respect
 for his status.” About the religious St. Augustine says, “Before the Lord
 our God, Who has been the witness of my soul since I began to serve
 God, I straightforwardly admit to Your Charity that it is with difficulty
 that I have found any people either worse or better than those who have
 either gone astray or gone forward in monasteries” (Letter to Vincentius
 the Donatist [Let. 2.78.9]).
 The evil of women is discussed in Ecclesiasticus 25[:22–23]: “There is
 no head worse than the head of a snake, and there is no anger surpassing
 the anger of a woman. It will be more pleasing to stay with a lion
 and a serpent than to live with an evil woman.” Among many things
 that follow and precede, he concludes about the evil woman in the
 same passage, “Every evil is small compared to the evil of a woman”
 [verse 26]. Hence, Chrysostom says in reference to the passage, “It is
 beneficial not to marry” [Matt. 19:10]: “What else is a woman but the
 enemy of friendship, an inescapable punishment, a necessary evil, a
 naturaltemptation,adesirabledisaster,adangerinthehome,adelightful
 detriment, an evil of nature, painted with nice color? Therefore, if it is a
 sin to send her away, then since it is appropriate to keep her, now there
 is truly an obligatory sort of torture in that we are either to commit acts
 of adultery in sending her away or have daily quarrels” [Unfinished Work
 on Matthew 38]. Finally, Cicero says, “While men are driven to every act
 of wrongdoing [maleficium=sorcery] by individual,” that is, multiple,
 308 So the reading of the first edition; Nider has “whom will they cast aside or from whom will
 they hide themselves?”
 309 A reference to Phil. 2:21.
 310 Ultimate source unknown.
Part I 41B–D
 163
 “desires, women are led to every sort of wrongdoing [“acts of sorcery”]
 by a single desire. For the basis of all the faults of women is greed”
 (Rhetoric,Bk. 2 [Pseudo-Cicero, Ad Herennium 4:23]). Seneca [actu
ally, Publilius Syrus A5,D8] in his tragedies says, “A woman either
 loves or hates. No third thing has been given. For a woman to cry is
 a lie. Two kinds of tears are kept in the eyes of women, one of true 41C
 grief and one of treachery. When a woman thinks alone, she thinks evil
 thoughts.”
 There is such praise of good women that it is read that they have
 even made men blessed and saved nations, lands and cities. This is clear
 in regards to Judith, Delbora and Esther.311 Hence, the Apostle says in
 Corinthians 7[:13], “If a woman has a husband and he agrees to live
 with her, let her not send away her husband. For an unbelieving man
 is made holy through a faithful woman.” For this reason it is said in
 Ecclesiasticus 26[:1], “The husband of a good woman is blessed. For
 the number of his years is double.” Almost the whole chapter recounts
 many very praiseworthy things about the excellence of good women, as
 does the last chapter of Proverbs about a “stout woman” [31:10]. All these
 notions about women were also made clear under the New Testament,
 as in the case of virgins and other holy women who led disbelieving
 nations and kingdoms from the worship of idolatry to the Christian
 religion. If someone wishes to do so, let him examine Vincent in the
 Mirror of History,Bk.26 [actually 25], Ch. 9 about the conversion of
 the kingdom of Hungary through the most Christian Gisela312 and that
 of the kingdom of the Franks through Chlothild313 the virgin betrothed
 to Clovis, and he will find many miraculous events. Hence, whatever 41D
 diatribes against the lusting of the flesh are read can be interpreted in
 such a way that “woman” is always interpreted as the lusting of the
 311 These three biblical figures were frequently cited in the Middle Ages as examples of heroines.
 Delbora (a variant of Deborah) cajoled Barak into attacking the Canaanites (Judges 4). Judith
 saved a Jewish town that was being besieged by ingratiating herself with the enemy commander
 and murdering him while he was in a drunken stupor (Judith 8–16). Esther, concubine of the
 Persian king, used her influence with him to secure the execution of a minister of his who was
 the enemyoftheJewsingeneralandofheruncleinparticular (Esther 7). Thelast two examples
 suggest that Delbora/Deborah is being confused with the woman Jael, who hammered a tent
 pin into the head of Sisera, the enemy general who was taking a nap in her tent during his
 f
 light after Barak’s victory.
 312 Sister of the Holy Roman Emperor Henry II, she married King Stephen of Hungary in ad
 995/96. He was the first Christian king of Hungary, and they both helped convert the kingdom
 to Christianity and were made saints for their efforts.
 313 In ad 493,Chlothild, daughter of the King of the Burgundians, married the pagan Clovis, who
 had recently united the Franks. Though she attempted to convert her husband to Christianity,
 according to Gregory of Tours he actually converted as a result of a vow made during his defeat
 of the Alamanni.
164
 The Hammer of Witches 41D–42B
 f
 lesh according to the passage, “I found woman more bitter than death”
 [Ecclesiastes 7:27], and “A good woman is subordinated desire of the
 f
 lesh.”
 There are others who give different reasons for why women are found
 tobesuperstitiousinlargernumbersthanmen,andtheysaythatthereare
 three reasons. The first is that they are prone to believing and because the
 demon basically seeks to corrupt the Faith, he assails them in particular.
 Hence Ecclesiasticus 19[:4]: “He who quickly believes is fickle in heart
 and will be made small.” The second reason is that on account of the
 tendency of their temperament towards flux they are by nature more
 easily impressed upon to receive revelations through the impression of
 the disembodied spirits, and when they use this temperament well, they
 are very good, but when they use it badly, they are worse. The third
 reason is that they have loose tongues and can hardly conceal from their
 female companions the things that they know through evil art, and
 since they lack physical strength, they readily seek to avenge themselves
 42A
 42B
 secretly through acts of sorcery.Hence, “It will be more pleasing to stay
 with a lion and a snake than to live with an evil woman. All evil is small
 compared to the evil of a woman.” (Ecclesiasticus 25, quoted above).
 The following reason can likewise be added. Since they are prone to
 f
 lux, they can more quickly offer children to the demons, as in fact they
 do.
 There is also a third group, who give different reasons. Preachers
 should propound and mention these reasons cautiously. In Scripture,
 they say bad things about women for the most part in the Old
 Testament–becauseofthefirstsinner (Eve) andherimitators– butlater
 in the New Testament, because the name changed (Eve becoming Ave)
 and because, as Jerome says, “All the evil that the curse of Eve brought in
 was removed by the blessing314 of Mary,” there are very many statements
 about women that should always be praised and preached. In modern
 times, however, this kind of breach of the Faith is found more often in
 women than in men, as experience itself indicates, and by tracing the
 reason more carefully beyond the foregoing we can say that since they
 are defective in all the powers of both soul and body, it is not surprising
 that they cause more acts of sorcery to happen against those for whom
 they feel jealousy. For in terms of the intellect or the understanding315
 314 There is a play on words in the Latin, the words for “curse” (maledictio) and “blessing” (bene
dictio) being similar formations (lit. “speaking well” and “speaking ill”).
 315 This is an etymological play in Latin in that “intellect” (intellectus) is clearly the abstract noun
 of the verb to “understand” (here in the form intelligendum).
Part I 42B–C
 165
 of spiritual matters they seem to belong to a different variety than men.
 Authority and reason, along with various examples from Scripture, indi
cate this. Terence [Hecyra 3.1] says, “Women are generally like children,
 possessing trivial views.” Lactantius says that a woman has never known
 philosophy except Themiste316 (Institutes 3[.25]). Proverbs 11[:22] says as
 if describing woman, “A beautiful and foolish woman is a gold ring in
 a pig’s nose.” There is a natural explanation, namely that she is more
 carnal than a man, as is clear in connection with many filthy carnal acts.
 These defects can also be noticed in the original shaping of woman,
 since she was formed from a curved rib, that is, from the rib of the chest
 that is twisted and contrary, so to speak, to man. From this defect there
 also arises the fact that since she is an imperfect animal,317 she is always
 deceiving,318 and for this reason she is always deceptive. Cato says, “She
 sets a trap with tears” [Distich 3.20], and it is said, “While a woman 42C
 cries, she is striving to deceive her man.”319 This is clear in the case of
 the wife of Samson, who, after importuning him greatly to reveal to
 her the riddle that he had given to his companions, revealed to them
 what he had said and thus committed deception.320 It is also clear in
 connection with the first woman that they have less faith by nature,
 since in response to the serpent’s question as to why they did not eat of
 every tree in paradise, she said, “From every...lest we may die” [Gen.
 3:2–3]. In this she shows that she is doubtful and does not have faith in
 the words of God. All this is also demonstrated by the etymology of the
 noun. For the word “femina” [the Latin word for woman] is spoken as
 “fe” and “minus,” because she has and keeps less [Latin “minus”] faith
 [Latin “fidem”].321 This is the result of nature in terms of faithfulness,
 though as a result of both Grace and nature at the same time, faith never
 failed in the case of the Most Holy Virgin, when it had failed in the case
 316 This is a garbling of the name of the Greek goddess Themis, who personifies order.
 317 The biological notion was that the female was a “defective” or lacking form of the male. The
 statement here seems a reflection of Aq., Sent. 1.102.3.Ra9, which is an explanation of why
 holocaust offerings in the Old Testament consisted exclusively of male animals.
 318 The source (Antoninus) is garbled here; the text should say that “she always thinks that she is
 being deceived.”
 319 Actually, only the first quote is attributed to Cato in the source (Antoninus), and the second
 is a modification of a common medieval adage.
 320 For the story of Samson’s riddle and the deception of his wife Timnah, see Judges 14:11–18.
 321 This absurd etymology is probably the best-known example of the anti-female reasoning of the
 Malleus. In fairness, it should be noted that this passage is borrowed verbatim from the source
 (Antoninus of Florence’s Summa). The etymology makes sense only in the Romance languages,
 where the Latin fides is often reduced to fe (cf. Spanish f` e and French foi). Though the standard
 modern Italian fede retains the two syllables and “d” of the Latin form, archaic Italian used the
 form f´ e, which must lie behind Antoninus’ reasoning.
166
 The Hammer of Witches 42C–43A
 of all the men at the time of the Passion of Christ.322 Woman, therefore,
 is evil as a result of nature because she doubts more quickly in the Faith.
 She also denies the Faith more quickly, this being the basis for acts of
 sorcery.
 42D
 43A
 As for another power of the soul (the will), when she hates someone
 whom she previously loved, as a result of nature she swells with anger
 andwithherinability totolerate this, and she is entirely intolerant of this
 in the same way that the swelling of the sea bubbles and rushes. Various
 authorities allude to this explanation. Ecclesiasticus 25[:19]: “There is no
 anger compared to the anger of woman.” Seneca in the eighth tragedy
 [Medea579–582]:“Noterrifying force of flameorofbillowingwindorof
 hurled spear is so great as that with which a wife bereft of nuptial torches
 blazes and hates.” This is clear in the case of the woman who falsely
 accused Joseph and had him imprisoned because he was unwilling to
 agreetothecrimeofadulterywithher(Gen.30[actually,39]).Infact,the
 principal cause contributing to the increase of sorceresses is the grievous
 warbetweenmarriedandunmarriedmenandwomen.Indeed,thisisthe
 case even among holy women, so what about the others? For in Genesis
 you see how great was the intolerance and envy of Sarah against Hagar
 after sheconceived(Gen.21[:9–21])!HowgreatwasthatofRachelagainst
 Leah because of the sons that Rachel did not have (Gen. 30)! Or that of
 Hannah against Peninnah, who was fertile while she herself was sterile
 (1 Sam. 1)! Or that of Miriam againstMoses (Numbers 12), as a result of
 which she grumbled at and disparaged Moses, because of which she was
 also struck with leprosy! Or that of Martha against Magdalene when she
 was sitting and Martha serving (Luke 10[38–42])! Hence, Ecclesiasticus
 37[:12]: “Deal with a woman about the things that she envies”, as if it
 said, “one should not deal with her because there is always rivalry, that is,
 envy in a bad woman.” When they behave this way among themselves,
 how much more so against men! Therefore, as Valerius [To Rufinus 14]
 relates, on the day when king Phoroneus of the Greeks died, he said
 to his brother Leontius, “I would lack nothing in complete happiness
 if I had always lacked a wife.”323 To this Leontius asked, “How does
 a wife obstruct happiness?” and Phoroneus replied, “This all husbands
 know.” The philosopher Socrates, when asked whether it was necessary
 322 Whereas the Apostles abandoned Jesus at the time of his arrest, his mother was present at the
 crucifixion according to John 19:25–27.
 323 While Phoroneus is mentioned by Augustine as an early Greek lawgiver, the character of
 Leontius was made up by Walter Map in his satirical attack on marriage (see “Valerius” in
 section b of the “Notes on the translation”).
Part I 43A–C
 167
 to take a wife, answered, “If you do not take one, desolation will take
 possession as the executor.324 In this case, there is the death of the lineage
 and your heir is from another’s family. But if you take one, in that case
 there is endless desolation: complaints about quarrels, upbraiding about
 the dowry, the burdensome hauteur of the relations by marriage, the
 prattling tongue of the mother-in-law, someone succeeding to another’s
 marriage, the uncertain outcome of children.” These things he said as 43B
 one with experience. For, as Jerome says in Against Jovinianus [1.48], this
 Socrateshadtwowives,andthoughheenduredthemwithgreatpatience,
 he was not able to escape their insults, shouts and rebukes. Hence, one
 daytheyweremakingcomplaintsagainsthim,andafterheleftthehouse
 to avoid their annoying words and sit in front of the house, the women
 threw dirty water on him. Unfazed by this since he was a philosopher,
 he said, “I knew that the rain follows after the thunder.” One can read
 about a certain man whose wife had drowned in a river. When he was
 looking for her corpse to remove it from the water, he walked upstream,
 and when he was asked why he was looking for her upstream though
 heavy objects flow downstream and not up, he answered, “In life that
 woman was always contrary to my words and deeds or commands, and
 so I am looking for her in a contrary manner in case even in death she
 retains a contrary will that surpasses what is normal.” Indeed, just as
 the result of the first defect, that of intelligence, is that they commit 43C
 the renunciation of the Faith more easily than do men, so too the result
 of the second, namely irregular desires and passions, is that they seek,
 think up and inflict various acts of vengeance, whether through acts of
 sorcery or by any other means. Hence, it is no wonder that such a large
 number of sorcerers exists in this category.
 In addition, how great is their defect in the power of memory, since
 as a result of nature there is in them the fault that they are unwilling
 to be ruled and instead follow their own urges without any piety! She
 strives after this, arranging to this end all the things she has remembered.
 Hence, Theophrastus says [cited in To Rufinus 1.48], “If you entrust the
 entire house to her, you must act like a slave. If you retain for your own
 judgment a great matter or even some trivial one, she will think that
 you do not trust her and will stir up disputes. Unless you consult her
 quickly, she gets poisonsreadyandconsultssoothsayersandpredictorsof
 the future.” Behold acts of sorcery! As to what thedominionofwomenis
 like, hear Cicero in Paradox of the Stoics [5.36]: “Is that man free to whom
 324 I.e., the end of the family will dissipate its property.
168
 The Hammer of Witches 43C–44A
 43D
 44A
 a womangivescommands,imposesterms,makesrules,ordersorforbids
 what she wants, or can he or dare he say no to her when she makes some
 command? I think that he should be called not simply a slave but the
 most wicked of slaves, even if he is born of the most impressive family.”
 Hence, Seneca, too, says in the person of the raging Medea,325 “Why are
 you stopping now?326 Follow the fortunate impulse! How small is that
 portion of the revenge in which you rejoice!...” [Medea 595–596]. Here
 he makes many statements, showing that a woman is unwilling to be
 ruled but proceeds by her own impulse, even to her own harm, just as
 one canreadaboutmanywomenwho,onaccountofeitherloveorpain,
 killed themselves because they could not wreak vengeance. For instance,
 in Commentary On Daniel [on 11:6] Jerome tells the story of Laodice.
 Being the wife of Antiochus, King of Syria, and feeling jealous that he
 would have more love for Beronice, whom he also held as wife, Laodice
 f
 irst had Beronice and her child by this Antiochus killed and then killed
 herself with poison. Hence, because her wish is not to be ruled but to
 proceed by her own impulse, Chrysostom327 not unjustly says, “Oh, an
 evil worse than any evil is a woman, whether she is poor or rich! For if
 she is the wife of a rich man, she does not cease day or night agitating
 her husband in clever conversation, enticing wickedly and demanding
 violently. If, on the other hand, she has a poor husband, she does not
 stop rousing him too to anger and squabbles. If she is a widow, she looks
 down upon everyone without distinction and is inflamed by a spirit of
 arrogance to every form of boldness.”
 Let us look, and we find that virtually all the kingdoms of the world
 have been overturned because of women. For the first prosperous king
dom (Troy) was destroyed because of the seizure of a single women,
 Helen, and many thousands of Greeks were killed. The kingdom of
 the Jews suffered many evils and deaths because of a very bad queen,
 Jezebel, and her daughter Athalia, queen in the kingdom of Judah, who
 had had the sons of her son killed in order that at his death she could
 reign herself, but both women were killed. The kingdom of the Romans
 endured many evils because of Cleopatra, the Queen of Egypt, a very
 badwoman.Andsoonaboutothers.Hence,itisnowonderiftheworld
 now suffers on account of the evil of women.
 325 The figure from Greek tragedy who, as an act of vengeance against her ex-husband, killed her
 own children and his future bride. Seneca wrote a tragedy about this.
 326 “Now” is a misreading. Antoninus (the source) correctly has “Why, spirit, are you stopping?”
 327 Ultimate source unknown.
Part I 44A–C
 169
 Next, an examination of the carnal desires of the body. As a result of
 them countless injuries happen to human life, so that we can justly say 44B
 with Cato Uticensis328 that if the world could exist without women, we
 would interact with the gods. For if the evil of women did not in fact
 exist– not to mention their acts of sorcery– the world would remain
 unburdened of countless dangers. In the letter To Rufinus, Valerius says,
 “You do not know that woman is a chimera but you ought to know
 that that triple-shaped monstrosity is made lovely with the outstand
ing face of a lion, befouled with the stomach of a smelly she-goat and
 armed with the tail of a poisonous snake.” He means that her counte
nanceisbeautiful,hertouchmalodorous,andherinteractionwithothers
 destructive.
 Let us also hear another characteristic, that of her voice. For she is
 lying in speech just as she is in nature. She is stinging and yet pleasing,
 and as a result of this the voice of women is compared to the song
 of the Sirens, who attract those who sail past with sweet melody and
 eventually kill them. Women do kill in that they empty wallets, drain
 strength, and forcibly cause the loss of God. Again Valerius says the
 following in the letter To Rufinus, “The delight gives pleasure and the
 transgression pricks the senses. The flower of Venus is a rose because
 under its dark-red color lurk many thorns.” So Proverbs 5[:3–4]: “Her 44C
 throatismoreshinythanoil,”thatis,“hermostrecentspeechisbitterlike
 wormwood.”
 Let us hear another characteristic. Her walk, bearing and demeanor
this is the vanity of vanities. There is no man in the world who strives to
 please Beneficent God as much as even a womanwhoismoderate in her
 vanities strives to please men. About this there is an example in the life of
 Pelagia.329 Being given over to the secular world, she was runningaround
 in Antioch with excessive adornment, and a Saintly Father by the name
 of Nomius began to weep at the sight of her. He said to his associates
 that in all the time of her life she had never applied such diligence in
 pleasing God andsoon,andintheendshewasconvertedbyhisprayers.
 This is the woman mentioned in Ecclesiastes 7[:27] and about whom
 the Church now laments because of the huge number of sorceresses:
 “I have found woman more bitter than death. She is a hunters’ snare,
 her heart is bait, and her hands are chains. He who pleases God will
 328 Ultimate source unknown.
 329 In the Life of Pelagia, a work popular in the Middle Ages, the conversion is narrated of the
 prostitute Pelagia to the life of asceticism through the intervention of Bishop Nonnus (here
 inaccurately rendered as Nomius).
44D
 170
 The Hammer of Witches 44C–45A
 shun her. He who is a sinner will be captured by her.” She is more bitter
 than death, that is, than the Devil: “His namewas Death” (Apocalypse
 6[:8]). For though it was the Devil who misled Eve into committing
 sin, it was Eve who led Adam astray, and since the sin of Eve would
 not have brought the death of the soul and body upon us if the guilt
 in Adam to which she and not the Devil misled him had not ensued,
 she is “more bitter than death.” Again, she is “more bitter than death”
 because death is natural and kills only the body, but the sin introduced
 by woman kills the soul as well as the body by depriving it of Grace
 as a penalty for sin. Again, she is “more bitter than death” because the
 death of the body is an open, fearsome enemy, but woman is a hidden,
 cajoling one, and for this reason she is more bitter and dangerous. She
 is called a snare of hunters, that is, of demons, because men are cap
tured not merely through carnal desires at the sight and sound of them
since their face is a burning wind and their voice a serpent’s hiss accord
ing to Bernard [Poem of Exhortation to Rainald, The Manner of Living
 Well]– but also through their affecting countless men and domestic
 animals with sorcery. Her heart is called “bait,”that is, the imperceptible
 45A
 ill-will that holds sway in women’s hearts. Their hands are chains for
 restraining. For when they set their hand to affecting a creature with sor
cery, then with the co-operation of the Devil they bring about what they
 undertake.
 Conclusion. Everything is governed by carnal lusting, which is insa
tiable in them (next to the last chapter of Proverbs [30:15]: “There are
 three insatiable things . . . and a fourth that never says, ‘It is enough,”’
 namely the opening of the womb) and for this reason they even cavort
 with demons to satisfy their lust. More evidence could be cited here, but
 for intelligent men it appears to be reasonably unsurprising that more
 womenthanmenarefoundtobetainted with the Heresy of sorceresses.
 Hence, and consequently, it should be called the Heresy not of Sorcerers
 but of Sorceresses, to name it after the predominant element. Blessed be
 the Highest One, Whohas, downtothe present day, preserved the male
 kind from such disgraceful behavior,330 and clearly made man privileged
 since He wished to be born and suffer on our behalf in the guise of a
 man.
 330 This expression of thanks to the Almighty is borrowed fromWilliamofAuvergne(TheUniverse
 2.3.25), whose point is rather different. He argued that since demons abhor homosexuality,
 they restrict their sexual attentions to human females, and for this he was duly grateful to
 God.
Part I 45B–C
 171
 What sort of women are more often found to be superstitious
 and sorceresses
 As for the secondtopic,331 namelywhatsortofwomenarefound 45B
 to be more given to superstition and tainted with acts of sorcery than
 are the rest, it should be said, as has become clear from the preceding
 question, that because three general faults (lack of faith, ambition, and
 debauchery)areseentoholdswayamongbadwomeninparticular,those
 womenwhoaredevotedtothese faults more than the rest engage in acts
 of sorcery more than do the rest. Again, since among these three faults
 the last is the predominant one, therefore, since this fault is insatiable
 and so on, even amongambitious womentheonesthat are more tainted
 are those who are more inflamed with the purpose of satisfying their
 base lustings, like adulteresses, female fornicators and the concubines
 of powerful men. This takes place on the basis of seven different sorts
 of sorcery, by means of the tainting of the sexual act and fetuses in the
 wombwithvariousactsofsorcery,asismentionedinthebull.332/333 First,
 by diverting the minds of men to irregular love and so on.334 Second,
 by impeding the procreative force.335 Third, by taking away the limbs
 appropriate for this act.336 Fourth, by changing men into the shape of
 beaststhroughtheartofconjuring.337 Fifth,bydestroyingtheprocreative
 force with reference to females. Sixth, by causing a miscarriage. Seventh, 45C
 331 That is, the second topic arising from the broader question of why women are more prone to
 sorcery than men, as outlined in 40A.
 332 I.e., Summis desiderantes, which mentions only the killing of fetuses and the impeding of sex,
 and not the seven sorts of sorcery.
 333 The topic of which sort of women are more prone to sorcery is seemingly dropped after only
 two sentences, and from now until Q. 11 the topic turns to the seven methods of thwarting
 reproduction. The phrase et hoc (“and this ...”)that introduces the present sentence normally
 gives an elaboration of some major thought that proceeds, but it is not self-evident which
 thought is being elaborated. Just after Q. 6 in the Table of Contents it is explicitly stated
 (3B) that “what sort of women are involved more than others is explained in the following
 f
 ive questions,” and this must refer to Qs. 7–11, which speak of the method of impeding
 procreation. Furthermore, in 52B the “truth that adulteresses, female fornicators and so on
 are more frequently sorceresses” is demonstrated by the ability to interfere with procreation,
 this topic being called “second,” just as it is here. This “truth” is likewise alluded to at the
 start of Q. 9 (56A), Q. 10 (59B) and Q. 11 (63C), which all continue the seven-fold enumer
ation indicated here. It would appear, then, that the topic of which sort of women engage
 in sorcery is discussed (confusingly and illogically) from the point of view of what sort of
 sorcery they perform. Perhaps this peculiar procedure is a sign that the content of Qs. 7–11
 has been adapted from some earlier work and put to use in a new context for which it is
 ill-suited.
 334 45C–52B plus Q. 7 (46A–52B).
 335 Q. 8 (52C–55D).
 336 Q. 9 (56A–59B).
 337 Q. 10 (59B–63A).
172
 The Hammer of Witches 45C–46A
 byoffering babies to demons.338 This is apart from the other animals and
 fruits of the earth, on which they inflict various injuries; these will be
 treated in following sections but for the present let us give explanations
 for the injuries to humans. First, a conclusion about those whom they
 affect with sorcery in the direction of irregular love or hatred, and later
 the same topic should be discussed under the rubric of a difficulty for
 further understanding.
 This conclusion is as follows. St. Thomas, when treating the imped
iment caused by sorcery (Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist.
 34 [Sent. 4.34.1.3]), gives explanations to show why more power over
 the sexual acts of man is granted to the Devil by God than over other
 acts, and therefore it is necessary to say by similar reasoning that those
 women who are more given over to these acts suffer more harassment.
 For he says that because the first corruption of sin by which man was
 made a slave of the Devil reached us through the act that generates, the
 power of sorcery is granted to the Devil by God in connection with
 45D
 46A
 this act more than with others, just as the virtue of acts of sorcery is
 demonstrated more in the case of serpents, as is stated, than of other
 animals, since the Devil made temptation by means of the serpent as if
 with his own tool. Hence, as he later adds, though marriage is an act
 of God, having been instituted by Him, still it is sometimes destroyed
 through the acts of the Devil, not, to be sure, through violence, since in
 that case the Devil would be counted stronger than God, but by caus
ing an impediment, whether temporary or permanent, to the conjugal
 act as a result of God’s permission. On the basis of these arguments,
 let us say what experience teaches, namely that for the sake of carrying
 out such filthy acts in regards both to themselves and to the powerful
 men of the secular world of whatever rank and status, they carry out
 countless acts of sorcery, turning these men’s minds to the love of mis
tresses or to infatuation, so that no shaming or persuasion can prevail
 upon them to give them up. From these facts the destruction of the
 Faith or an intolerable risk of this threatens everyday, since the women
 know how to change these men’s minds in such a way that the men
 allow no harm to be done to the sorceresses either by themselves or
 others, and thus the sorceresses multiply daily. Would that experience
 had not taught us this at all! To the contrary, however, such hatreds
 are stirred up through acts of sorcery among those joined by the Sacra
mentofMarriageandlikewise such coolings of the power of procreation
 338 Topics Five to Seven here are all treated in Q. 11 (63D–64B).
Part I 46A–B
 173
 that they cannot return or claim the matrimonial debt for the sake of
 progeny.
 Love and hatred exist in the soul, which even a demon cannot enter,
 and in order that these assertions should not seem almost unbelievable
 to anyone, they should be discussed under the rubric of a question, since
 even opposites are more obvious when placed side by side.339
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 6:
 Antoninus, Summa 3.1.25
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5, 8
 Praec. 1.11.21]
 the question concerning whether sorceresses
 can turn the minds of men to love or hatred
 (being the seventh in order)
 [TT] THEquestion340 is raised as to whether demons can turn
 and incite the minds of men to irregular love or hate through these
 witches.
 [AG1]It is argued that according to the foregoing they cannot. There
 are three elements in man: will, intellect and body. Just as God can 46B
 direct the first by Himself (“The heart of the king is in the hand of
 the Lord” [Proverbs 21:1]), He can also enlighten the second through an
 angel and guide the body through the influences of the heavenly bodies.
 [AG2]Also,demonscannotexistwithinbodieswhenchangingthem,
 and much less then can they exist within the soul when introducing
 hatred or love into its powers. The consequence clearly is that as a result
 of their nature they have greater control over physical than spiritual
 matters, and indeed it was made clear in many passages above that they
 cannot cause a change, because they cannot bring about an essential or
 incidental shape except with the help of some other agent, just like any
 other craftsman. To the same effect there is also 26,Q.5,“Episcopi”at
 the end: “Whoever believes that any creature can be changed for better
 or worse except by the Creator of all things Himself is worse than an
 infidel and pagan.”
 339 The last clause sounds like an aphorism of scholastic logic, but if so, its relevance is not
 self-evident.
 340 This is the first of the issues raised in 45B but is not overtly marked as such here.
174
 The Hammer of Witches 46B–D
 46C
 46D
 [AG 3] Also, everything that acts as an agent recognizes its effect on
 the basis of intention. If, therefore, the Devil could turn men’s minds
 to hatred or love, he would be able to see the internal thoughts of the
 soul, which contradicts what is said in Ecclesiastical Dogmas [81]: “The
 devil cannot see internal thoughts.” And again in the same book: “Not
 all our evil thoughts are stirred up by the Devil, but sometimes derive
 from the impulse of our free will.”
 [AG 4] Also, love and hatred concern the will, which is rooted in the
 soul, and, therefore, they cannot be caused by the Devil through any
 art. The conclusion is valid because to slide into the soul, as Augustine
 says [The Spirit and the Soul 27], is possible only for Him Who created
 it.
 [AG5]Also, if it is said that he can activate the internal powers of per
ception and thus as a consequence the will, this is not valid, because the
 power of perception is more dignified than the power of nourishment,
 and since the Devil cannot form the act of the virtue of nutrition in
 order to form flesh or bone, neither can he cause any act of the internal
 forces of the soul.
 [SC 1] To the contrary. The devil is said to tempt humans not only
 visibly but also invisibly, and this would be false if he could not in some
 way affect the soul and its powers internally.
 [SC 2] Also, John of Damascus says in his Pronouncements [Exposition
 of the Orthodox Faith 2.4]: “All evil and all uncleanliness were thought
 upbytheDevil,” andDionysius says (Divine Names, Ch. 4 [4.18]), “The
 multitude of demons is the cause of all misfortunes, both for themselves
 and for others.”
 [CO]Response. A distinction should be made here, first, about cause
 and, second, as to how he can change the internal powers of the soul,
 whicharecalled the internal powers of perception, and in this way, third,
 a conclusion about the topic at hand will be reached.
 Regarding the first, it is necessary to consider that something can be
 called the cause of something else in two ways, in one way as the direct
 cause and in the other as the indirect cause. An example of an indirect
 cause is that whensomethingserving as anagentcausessomeinclination
 toward a certain outcome, it is said to be the cause of that outcome in an
 indirect manner by providing the opportunity. An example is if saying
 that the manwhodriesoutwoodprovidestheopportunity for the wood
 being burned. In this way we can say that the Devil is the cause of all
 our sins, because he himself impelled the First Man341 to sin and from
 341 I.e., Adam.
Part I 46D–47B
 175
 his sin a certain tendency to all sins resulted in the entire human race.
 This is how the words of John of Damascus and Dionysius should be
 understood.
 Onthe other hand, something is said to be the direct cause of some
thing else to the extent that it works directly toward that end, and the 47A
 Devil is not the cause of every sin in this way. Not all sins are committed
 at the instigation of the Devil, but some are as a result of free will and
 the corruption of the flesh. For, as Origen says [Principles 3.2.2.], even
 if the Devil did not exist, people would have an appetite for food and
 sexual activities and the like, and in connection with these matters many
 disorderings would happen if that appetite were not reined in by reason,
 especially when the corruption of nature is taken as a given. Restraining
 such an appetite and keeping it in order is within the sphere of the free
 will, but the Devil does have a lesser power over the appetite.
 We cannot discern through this distinction how the love felt for a
 mistress or infatuation can sometimes be brought about as a result of
 sorcery, and hence it should further be noted that while the Devil cannot
 be the cause of such irregular love by directly forcing a man’s will, he
 can nonetheless be the cause in the manner of one who persuades, doing
 so in two ways, either visibly or invisibly. He does so visibly when, for
 instance, he appears perceptibly in the form of a person to the sorcerers,
 speaking perceptibly to them andpersuading them to a sin. In just this 47B
 way, he tempted the First Ancestors342 in paradise in the form of a snake,
 and Christ in the desert, appearing visibly to Him in some form.
 Because it should not be thought that he persuades man in this way
 alone– for in that case it would follow that no other sins resulting from
 the Devil’s instruction would occur apart from those that the Devil urges
 by appearing visibly– it is necessary to say that he also impels man to
 sin invisibly. This happens in two ways, by means of persuasion and
 by means of causing an inclination. It happens by means of persuasion
 when, for instance, something is laid out as a good thing to the virtue
 of decision. This can happen in three ways, in that something is laid
 out in relation to the intellect or the internal perception or the external
 perception. As for the intellect, the human intellect can be helped by
 the good or bad intellect of angels to reach some decision by means
 of a certain enlightenment, as Dionysius [Divine Hierarchy 4.2] says.
 The explanation is that since according to the Philosopher [The Soul
 3.4] to understand means to have something done to one, the Devil
 can impress upon the human intellect some appearance that elicits the
 342 I.e., Adam and Eve.
47C
 176
 The Hammer of Witches 47C–D
 act of the understanding intellect.343 If it is said that the Devil could
 in fact do this by his own natural virtue, which is not lessened (as is
 clear from the foregoing), it should be said that he cannot do so by
 means of enlightenment but by means of persuasion. The explanation
 is that since man’s intellect is of such a condition that the more it is
 enlightened, the more it recognizes the truth, and the more it recog
nizes the truth, the more it can take precautions against being deceived,
 and because such deception is the Devil’s goal, whatever persuasion is
 made by him cannot be called enlightenment, though it can be called a
 revelation to the extent that through some impression upon the internal
 or external forces of perception (the latter in a case where he would be
 persuading visibly), he would make some sort of impression, and as a
 result the recognition of the intellect would be persuaded to carry out
 some act.
 47D
 As for how344 this (his ability to make an impression on internal
 forces) can happen, it should be noted that while the nature of the
 body was born to be moved in position by the spiritual nature– this
 is clearly the case with our bodies, which are moved by our souls, and
 likewise with that of the heavenly bodies– the nature of the body was
 not born to be suitable for being formed by the spiritual nature without
 some intermediary (we use the term “form” mainly in the sense derived
 from “remaining outside [Latin “foris”]” and not from the one derived
 from “giving form”).345 Therefore, since it is appropriate that something
 physical should co-operate as an agent, as is proven in [Aristotle] Meta
physics,Bk.7 [7.7], the substance of a body naturally obeys a good or bad
 angel in moving in location. If this proposition is granted, then because
 demons can gather seed in such a manner involving motion and can
 join or apply them to bring about certain effects in a wondrous way (as
 happened in the case of Pharaoh’s magicians when they produced snakes
 and real animals [Exod. 7–8] by joining the appropriate agents to the
 appropriate recipients of the action), there is nothing to prevent any
thing that can happen to the substance of a body as a result of change in
 location from taking place through demons if they are not impeded by
 God.
 343 This is an etymological play in Latin in that “intellect” (intellectus) is clearly the abstract noun
 of the verb to “understand” (intelligere).
 344 This is apparently the start of the second topic mentioned at the beginning of the “Response”
 in 46D.
 345 This is apparently some sort of scholastic explanation of forma as a philosophical term (the
 abstract idea of an object that shapes it from inchoate matter) on the basis of (erroneous)
 etymology.
Part I 47D–48B
 177
 Again, if this concept is granted, then if we wish to understand how
 the Devil can rouse man’s fantasy and internal powers of perception to
 apparitions and rash acts through change in location, it is to be noted
 that the Philosopher gives an explanation in Sleep and Wakefulness [2]
 for an apparition in dreams through change in location, on the grounds
 that a large amount of blood descends to the origin of perception346
 when an animal has fallen asleep, and at the same time movements or 48A
 impressions that are left behind from previous motions of perceptible
 things andthathavebeenpreservedinthespiritsortheinternalvirtuesof
 perception also descend, these virtues being the fantasy or imagination,
 which are the same thing according to St. Thomas, as will be made clear.
 (The fantasy or imagination is a sort of storehouse of forms received
 through perception.) Hence, it happens that they347 set in motion the
 origin of apprehension, that is, the power that preserves appearances, in
 such a way that they appear in fantasies just as fresh as if at that time the
 origin of perception were being changed afresh by those very external
 things.
 It is true that this is not everyone’s understanding. If someone wishes
 to take the time, he would have to consider the number and function
 of the internal perceptions. While Avicenna says in The Soul [1.5] that
 there are five of these (common sense, fantasy, the power to imagine,
 the power of estimation, and memory), St. Thomas says in Part One,
 Q. 79 [actually, 4.78.4.4.Co.] that there are only four because he posits
 the virtues of imagination and fantasy as a single virtue. Since there is
 a fear of long-windedness, the explanation is omitted here. Since these 48B
 matters are fully treated in several passages, let what has been said suffice,
 namely that fantasy is a storehouse of forms.
 Someone might think that the power of memory is like this. Make348
 the distinction that while fantasy is the storehouse or place of preser
vation for forms received by perception, memory is the storehouse of
 conceptions that are not received by perception. For when a sheep sees
 a wolf and flees, he does so not because of the unsuitability of the wolf’s
 color or shape, which are forms received by the external perceptions
 and stored in the fantasy. Rather, he flees because the wolf is his natural
 enemy, and he grasps this through a certain conception and grasp based
 on the power of estimation, which conceives of the wolf as harmful and
 346 I.e., to the place in the brain where the “perception” of the external object by the consciousness
 is “set in motion” by the arrival of the stimulus from the organs of perception.
 347 I.e., the movements or impressions.
 348 This imperative is addressed to the reader (here taken to be a potential preacher).
178
 The Hammer of Witches 48B–D
 the dog as friendly.349 The place of preservation for those conceptions
 is the memory, because the actions of receiving and retaining in bodies
 are ascribed to different origins. For while damp things receive well and
 retain poorly, the opposite is the case with dry things.
 48C
 48D
 Relevant to the topic at hand is what happens in the case of sleeping
 people who are asleep in terms of the apparitions of dreams from spirits,
 that is, of images deposited in places of preservation. (This is the result
 of a natural movement in location on account of the blood and humors
 being set into motion toward those origins, that is, toward the internal
 virtues of perception, andwearespeakingofmotionwithintheheadand
 in the compartments of the head.) This can also happen as the result of a
 similar motion caused by demons, in the case not only of people whoare
 asleep but also of ones who are awake, in whom the demons can direct
 and set into motion the internal spirits and humors, so that the images
 storedintheplacesofpreservationarebroughtforthfromthestorehouses
 to the origins of perception, that is, to the virtues of imagination and
 fantasy, so that this person can imagine certain things. This will be
 called an internal temptation, and it is no wonder that the demon has
 this ability through his natural virtue, since any humanwhoisawakeand
 has the use of his reason, can, by intentionally setting preserved images
 into motion, himself bring forth images like this from his storehouses,
 that is, from the places of preservation, so that he imagines certain things
 at his own discretion.
 If this conception is granted, the topic of the love felt for a mistress is
 nowclearlyunderstood.350 Since,ashasbeensaid,demonscansetimages
 of this kind in motion and so on, they perform these acts in two ways.
 Sometimes this happens without a fettering of the use of reason (as was
 mentioned regarding temptation, and as is exemplified by the voluntary
 adherence that sometimestakesplace), andsometimesbecausetheuseof
 reason is completely fettered. We can give examples for this with certain
 natural defects like those of the delirious and the drunken. Therefore,
 it is no wonder that the demons can in this way fetter the use of reason
 with God’s permission. Such people are called “seized” (Lat. “arrepticii,”
 sing. “arrepticius” from the verb “arripio, arripere”) because the use of
 reason has been seized by the demon. This takes place in two ways,
 either without a sorceress and sorcery or with her and without sorcery.
 349 The “virtue of estimation” is the equivalent in animals of the “cogitative virtue” in humans,
 which is also known as “reason.”
 350 This is seemingly the conclusion that is mentioned as the third topic at the beginning of the
 “Response” in 46D.
Part I 48D–49B
 179
 Since, as the Philosopher says in the aforementioned book [Sleep and
 Wakefulness 2], someone in the throes of passion is roused by a modest
 similarity, for instance a lover by a modest similarity to the beloved, and
 so too in the case of one who feels hatred, then the demons find out
 through experience with human acts what affecting circumstances they
 are more subject to and impel them toward this sort of irregular love
 or hatred. The more readily the demons can do this, the more strongly
 and effectively they impress into people’s imagination what the people
 intend, andthemorereadily the lover for his part brings forth the image 49A
 he has preserved to the origin of perception, that is, to the imagination,
 and the more pleasurably it lingers in his thought, the more readily the
 demons can do this.
 They do this by sorcery when they produce such results through
 sorceresses and at their prompting on account of the agreement entered
 into with them, and it is not possible to recount these results on account
 of their large numbers among both spiritual and secular people. How
 many adulterers cast aside very beautiful wives and blaze with desire for
 other, very foul women! We know of an old woman who, as the general
 report of all the brothers in that monastery states down to the present
 day, not only affected four abbots with sorcery one after the other but
 killed three and has similarly driven the fourth out of his mind. She
 herself confesses to this in public declaration and does not fear to say, “I
 have done so and I still am doing so. They won’t be able to stop loving
 mebecause they have eaten this much of my shit,” showing the amount
 by stretching out her arm.351 I confess that we did not possess the power
 to exact vengeance and to conduct an inquisition about her, and for this
 reason she still survives.
 As for the statement at the beginning of this distinction352 that the 49B
 Devil invisibly impels man to commit sin not only by means of per
suading, as has been stated, but also by means of causing an inclination,
 the explanation for this is as follows (though this is not relevant to the
 topic at hand). By applying the spirits and humors in a similar way,
 he makes some people more inclined to becoming angry or conceiving
 a lustful desire or something of the kind. For it is obvious that when
 351 This rather distasteful image was apparently used in colloquial German to express a deep
 amatory yearning. At any rate, a lascivious scholastic in the Letters of Obscure Men (2.12) who is
 smitten with lust for a chambermaid in an inn is portrayed as saying (in suitably foul Latin), “If
 that maiden would sleep with me for one night, I’d eat a pound of her shit!” The sorceress here
 gauges her success by volume rather than weight, presumably indicating with her outstretched
 hand the height reached by the amount of excrement consumed.
 352 47B.
180
 The Hammer of Witches 49B–C
 the body is in some way inclined, the man is more liable to lust and
 anger andsuchpassions, being inclined to acquiesce whenthese passions
 swell up.
 Because the foregoing ideas are difficult to preach, they should be
 explained in an easier manner as a warning for the congregation. The
 cures by which those affected in this way by sorcery can be released are
 treated in Part Three.353
 The manner of propounding the foregoing discussion about the love felt
 for a mistress in sermons to the congregation
 49C
 When someone preaches abouttheforegoingtopics, he raises
 the questionwhetheritisaCatholicpropositiontoassertthatsorceresses
 have the power to turn the minds of men to the irregular love of other
 men’s women and to set their hearts ablaze to such an extent that no
 shaming, blows, words or deeds can force them to give these women
 up, and likewise whether they can incite a couple joined in marriage to
 such hatred that they have no occasion to return or demand the matri
monial debt354 for the sake of progeny, but instead these men sometimes
 have to run across large distances to their inamoratas in the silence of
 the dead of night.355 About these matters let the preacher adopt, if he
 wishes, some arguments from the preceding question. Otherwise, let
 him merely say that these questions suffer from difficulties in terms of
 love and hatred. Since these emotions are based in the will, which is
 always free in its action and cannot be forced by another creature except
 by God, Who can guide it, it seems that neither a demon nor a sor
ceress through his virtue can force the will in the direction of love or
 hatred.
 Also, since the will, like the intellect, exists in a subjective356 sense
 element inthesoulandonlyHeWhocreatedthesoulisabletoslideinto
 the soul, this question suffers from a difficulty in terms of unraveling the
 truths in their parts. Nonetheless, despite these difficulties, it is necessary
 to speak, first, about infatuation and hatred, and, second, about sorcery
 committed against the power to procreate.
 353 Actually, Pt. ii,Q.2, Ch. 3 (164A).
 354 I.e., the sex “owed” to a spouse.
 355 This last clause is reminiscent of the Canon “Episcopi.”
 356 “Subject” is the technical term in Thomas’s philosophy for the thing upon which incidental
 qualities depend and for the “material” in which a “form” is manifested. Hence, “in a subjective
 sense” means that the will as an ontological entity exists in the soul (see Aq., Sent. 2.34.1.4).
 (The same conception appears as an authorial addition to a quotation in 144D.)
Part I 49D–50A
 181
 About the first topic. Although a demon is unable to work on 49D
 man’s intellect or will without an intermediary, nonetheless according
 to all the Doctors of Theology (in the Commentary on Pronouncements,
 Bk. 2 in the section on the virtue of the demon [2.8.1.5]) they can, in
 their workings, act on the body and on the faculties of the body attached
 to the body (both the internal or external perceptions), if God permits.
 This is proven by authority and by reason on the basis of the preceding
 question.
 If the preacher wishes, he will find the material; if not, let him cite
 authority and reason. Job 2[:6]: “To the demon God said, ‘Behold, Job
 is in your hand,”’ that is, in the demon’s power. This was in terms of the
 body, because he did not wish to give power over the soul. Hence, He
 said, “But nonetheless, preserve his soul” (same verse), that is, “preserve
 it unharmed.” Reason.357 When He gave power over Job’s body, He also
 gave it over all the faculties attached to the body, like the five external and
 four internal faculties (common sense, fantasy or the power to imagine,
 the power of estimation, and the power of memory).
 If no other explanation is possible, let an illustration about pigs and
 sheep be given. In this, pigs know how to return through the power
 of memory, and sheep distinguish wolf and dog on the basis of natural
 imagination, one being the enemy and the other the friend of their
 nature. Consequently, since every act of recognition in our intellect 50A
 takes its origin from perception, it being necessary according to the
 Philosopher in Bk. 2 of The Soul for the person using his intellect to
 view fantastical images, therefore a demon darkens the intellect in the
 same way that he can change the internal fantasy. This will certainly
 not mean acting without an intermediary on the soul but through the
 intervention of the fantastical pictures.
 Also, as for the fact that only what has been recognized is loved,
 let illustrations be given at one’s discretion about the gold that the
 greedy man loves because he understands its virtue and so on. For
 this reason, once the intellect is darkened the will is also darkened.
 A demon can do these things both with and without a sorceress, and,
 indeed, they can even happen as a result merely of incautious use of the
 eyes.358
 357 I.e., up to now the argument has been by authority, as indicated at the end of the preceding
 paragraph.
 358 This peculiar statement comes from Nider, who is the source for this whole passage. According
 to Nider,thethreesourcesofirregularinfatuationare1)incautioususeoftheeyes,2)temptation
 by a demon alone, and 3) an act of sorcery by nigromantics and demons together.
182
 The Hammer of Witches 50A–C
 50B
 50C
 Wewillpassonafewillustrationsabouteach.AsitsaysinJames1[:14
15], “Each person is tempted when seduced and enticed by his lusting.
 When this lusting conceives, it gives birth to sin, and then, when sin is
 consummated, it begets death.” In the same way, “After Shechem saw
 Dinah going out to see the women of the area, he fell in love with her,
 seized her and slept with her, and his soul was glued to her” (Gen.
 34[:2]). According to the gloss, “This is what happens to a weak soul.
 When, like Dinah, it disregards its own business and attends someone
 else’s, it is led astray by habit and is united in a unity of feeling with
 impermissible acts.”
 About the second topic,359 that even without sorceresses it360 some
times arises mainly as a result of the temptation of demons, the basic
 explanation is as follows. “Amnon fell in love with his very beautiful sis
ter Tamar, and hebecamesodesperately in love with her that onaccount
 of his love for her he grew ill” (2 Samuel 13[:1–2]). For no one would
 stoop to the great crime of incest except someone entirely corrupted and
 greatly tempted by the Devil. Hence the gloss on that passage: “This
 gives us warning– and this is the reason why God gave His permission
that we should always act with caution so that vices will not hold sway
 in us and so that the Prince of Sin,361 who promises a false peace to those
 in danger, will not slaughter us unexpectedly, when he finds us made
 ready.”362
 About this second kind of love, the Book of the Holy Fathers is full
 of reports, stating that although they had removed every temptation
 of carnal lust from themselves, nonetheless they would sometimes be
 tempted by the love of women more than can be believed. Hence, in
 2 Corinthians 12[:7] the Apostle says, “An angel of Satan who was to
 box my ears was given to me as a goad to the flesh.” Here the gloss
 says: “He was given to me through temptation by lust. Temptation that
 is not complied with is not a sin but material for practicing virtue.
 This is understood to mean temptation from the Enemy and not that
 from the flesh, which is always at least a venial sin, even if it is not
 compliedwith.”Thepreacherwillalsobeabletociteotherexamplesifhe
 wishes.
 359 This reference to a “second topic” has been carelessly carried over from Nider (for his division
 of the topic, see preceding note). Hence, the preceding paragraph treated Nider’s first topic
 (temptation through vision), which is the last in the reworking here (50A). The same mistake
 is made with the “third” topic in 50C, which is the second topic in 50A.
 360 I.e., infatuation.
 361 I.e, the devil.
 362 The source (Nider) has an incorrect reading here, and “made ready” should be “unprepared.”
Part I 50C–51A
 183
 Aboutthethird,363 thatthelovefeltforamistressderivesfromdemons’
 acts of sorcery, this is discussed above, and this is the kind of temptation
 that we are speaking of.
 If someone asks how it could be discerned that this sort of irregular
 love comesnotfromtheDevilbutonlyfromsorcery,oneshouldsaythat
 this can be discerned on several grounds. First, if someone tempted in
 this way hasabeautiful andrespectable wife and the opposite is generally
 agreed to be the case with the other woman, and so on. Second, if his
 rational capacity to judge is completely fettered so that he cannot be
 induced to give her up by any blows or words or deeds or attempts
 to shame him. Third, especially when he sometimes cannot restrain
 himself fromtraveling unexpectedly, either by day or by night, across a 50D
 great distance despite the roughness of the journey, as anyone can learn
 from the confessions of these people. For just as Chrysostom says in On
 Matthew [37]onCh.20 [actually, 21:2–7] concerning the ass that Christ
 rode, when the demon possesses a man’s will through sin, he drags the
 man where he wishes, virtually at his own discretion. Chrysostom gives
 an illustration about a ship at sea that has lost its rudder and is tossed
 about at the discretion of the wind. This situation is just like that of the
 manwhoisstoutlypowerfulonahorseandakingholdingthepossession
 of a tyrant. Fourth, it is discerned in the fact that they suddenly and
 unexpectedly get carried off,364 and they sometimes undergo a change
 so that nothing can stand in their way. It is also inferred from the bad
 reputation of the woman herself.
 Before we goontothefurther365 question about acts of sorcery affect
ing the power to procreate, the arguments must first be solved.
 The responses to the arguments follow
 Responsesto the arguments.
 [RA 1] As for the first, that man’s will is guided by God in the same 51A
 way that his intellect is by a good angel, the solution is clear. Just as
 the intellect is only enlightened by a good angel so that it recognizes
 the truth, and as a result love of the good follows, because the truth
 and reality are interchangeable concepts, similarly the intellect can be
 darkened by a bad angel so that it recognizes a seeming truth. This
 happens through the mixing up of the images presented as real to the
 363 See n. 359.
 364 For the ambiguity of “carried off,” see n. 410. Here it presumably means “go riding” a horse.
 365 As indicated at the end of 49C.
184
 The Hammer of Witches 51A–C
 51B
 51C
 origins of perception, that is, to the internal virtues and faculties of
 perception, and as a result of this there follows an irregular love of the
 seeming good, for instance, the physical pleasure that such people seek.
 [RA 2] As for the second, that they cannot exist within bodies when
 changing them, this is partly true and partly not, with reference to
 three sorts of change. They cannot change bodies in terms of educing366
 some form, whether substantial or incidental– this ought in fact to be
 called an act of production rather than a change– without the help of
 something else that serves as the agent or without God’s permission. If
 we are speaking of a change in quality, for instance health or illness, as
 is clear from the foregoing, they can introduce various forms of illness,
 even to the point of fettering the reasoning process, and in this way
 cause irregular hatred and love. A third change can also be added. This
 happens when a good or bad angel slides into the body. This is the way
 in which we say that God alone slides into the body, that is, into the
 essence of the soul, but when we say that an angel slides into the body,
 especially a bad angel in the case of those possessed, he does not in that
 case slide within the boundaries of the essence of the body, because only
 HeWhogrants it being,367 namely God the Creator, can slide in in this
 wayandHeiscontainedthereastheonewhoholdstheinnerworkingof
 the soul.368 Nonetheless, the angel is said to slide into the body when he
 performs some work on it, since he is in the place where he is working,
 as John of Damascus [Exposition of the Orthodox Faith 1.13] says. In that
 case, he is working within the boundaries of the mass of the body and
 not within the boundaries of the essence of the body, and from this it
 can be inferred that the body has boundaries in a double sense, namely
 in mass and essence (the distinction is like that between the individual
 manifestation and nature).369 Hence just as they can slide into the
 body, so too can they slide into the powers attached to the organs of
 366 This is a technical term for the act of creating (literally “drawing out”) something from the
 material that held the potential of giving rise to that thing and in which that thing previously
 existed as a potentiality.
 367 AnotheretymologicalplayintheLatin:theabstractnoun“essence”isderivedfromtheinfinitive
 “being” (esse). As the grantor of esse, God alone can enter the body’s “essence.”
 368 ThissentenceisasomewhatgarbledrecapitulationofAquinasSent.2.8.1.5.Ra3, where heargues
 that an angel can enter the “mass” (quantitas) of the body, but cannot enter its “essence” (see
 preceding note), which is the soul, and since the soul derives from God alone, he alone can
 enter it.
 369 Here, “nature” signifies the qualities that define a given group, while the “individual mani
festation” contains incidental qualities that do not pertain to the definition of the group. For
 instance, a given automobile partakes of the qualities (the “nature” of automobiles) that define
 all automobiles, like having engines and tires, while at the same possessing other qualities that
 pertain only to it, like being rusty and blue. This sentence is a later elaboration of Aquinas’s
 argument.
Part I 51C–52A
 185
 the body and consequently make impressions on those powers. Hence,
 such a working and impression incidentally makes a repercussion on the
 intellect since its object is a mentalpicture, like acolorthathasbeenseen,
 as is stated in Bk. 3 of The Soul [3.3]. Consequently, the repercussion’s
 effect incidentally extends as far as the will, because the will receives its
 object from the intellect by its appraisal of the good, in that the intellect
 grasps something by its appraisal of the true and the seeming good.
 [RA 3] As for the third, “recognizing the thoughts of the heart” is
 meant in two ways, according to whether these appear in their effect or
 exist in the intellect. In the first way, not only an angel but even a man
 can recognize them, though the angel does so more subtly, as will be
 explained. For a thought is sometimes recognized not merely through
 an external act but even through a change in the facial expression, and
 physicians are in fact able to recognize some mental desires through the
 pulse. For this reason, Augustine says in The Divination of Demons that
 sometimes,whencertainsigns fromthespirit are expressed on the body, 51D
 angels can, with total ease, thoroughly learn not only the inclinations
 of people that are uttered verbally but also those that are conceived in
 thought. In the Book of Retractions [2.30], however, Augustine says that
 noclaimshouldbemadeastohowthishappens.Ithinkthathemadethe
 retraction in case someone said that he had felt that a demon recognizes
 thoughts in the intellect.
 In the other way, it is possible for thoughts to be recognized just as
 they are in the intellect and for wishes to be recognized just as they are
 in the will. It is only God Who can recognize the thoughts of hearts and
 the wishes of wills in this way. The explanation of this is that the will of
 a reasoning creature is subordinate to God alone, and only He Who is
 its basic object and final goal can work on it. Accordingly, those things
 that exist in the will or are derived from the will alone are known to
 Godalone. It is manifest that someone’s actual consideration of things is
 derived from the will alone, because when someone possesses the habit
 of knowledge370 or the intelligible images that exist in it, he makes use
 of them when he wishes.
 Thisisalsoprovenonthebasisofwhathasalreadybeenstated,namely
 that an angel cannot slide into the soul. Therefore, he cannot by nature 52A
 see the thingsthatareinthesoul,foraslongastheyareintheinnerrecess
 of the soul. Hence, when the argument is made that a demon cannot see
 the thoughts of hearts and therefore cannot incite men’s hearts (minds)
 370 “Habit” is a technical term in Aquinas whose sense is stronger than normal English usage
 suggests. A “habit” is a tendency in someone that has become ingrained to the point of being a
 characteristic. Hence, the “habit of knowledge” is the rigorous application of logical thinking.
186
 The Hammer of Witches 52A–B
 to love or hatred, it is said that just as he recognizes them, that is, by their
 results, in a more subtle manner than a man can, he can also change
 them to love or hatred in a more subtle manner by setting fantastical
 pictures in motion and darkening the intellect.
 52B
 There is also something that should be brought to the attention of
 fearful and virtuous consciences to console them, and this is that the
 perceptible external bodily change that accompanies man’s thoughts is
 sometimes so weak and indefinite that the Devil cannot use it to reach
 a sure recognition of his thought, especially when people devote them
selves on an alternating basis to study and good works, in which case he
 harasses these people in dreams instead. Experience demonstrates this.
 Sometimes,thebodilychangeissostronganddefinitethatthroughitthe
 demon can recognize the thought in terms of category, for instance that
 he is thinking about envy or debauchery, but whether he can use this
 change to recognize the thought with certainty in terms of all the cir
cumstances, for instance that it concerns this or that person, we leave as
 a doubtful point, just as we have found it. It is true, however, that he
 can afterwards recognize such circumstances from actions.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth, it is clear that although it is appropriate for
 Godalonetoslidein,nonethelesstoslideintothebodyandconsequently
 into the faculties attached to the body in the manner treated above can
 be appropriate for an angel, whether good or bad, and as a result love
 and hatred can be caused in such a person.
 [RA 5] As for the argument that the power of perception is more
 dignified than that of nourishment, which cannot, however, be changed
 by a demon, it should be said that to the contrary he could also control
 the power of nourishment so that something would be digested into
 bone or flesh more quickly or more slowly, but he does not co-operate
 in this in the way that he does in impeding or stirring up the internal
 or external forces of perception. The reason for the latter work is the
 gain that he achieves in very large measure from deceiving the senses of
 perception and playing games on the intellect.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 7:
 Aq., On Evil 3.3, 4, 5
 Sent. 2.8.1.5
 Summa 1.57.4; 1.78.4
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5
 Praec. 1.11.13]
Part I 52C–D
 187
 52C
 question eight: whether sorceresses can
 impede the faculty to procreate (the sexual
 act), | which is the kind of sorcery
 mentioned in the bull
 [TT] SECOND,371 this same truth, namely that adulteresses,
 female fornicators and so on are more frequently sorceresses, is shown
 by the impediment of the act of the faculty to procreate that is caused
 by sorcery.
 [AG1]Inorderfor the truth to become moreevident, it is first argued
 that it is not possible, because if such an act of sorcery were possible, it
 could also happen to married people, and if this is granted, then since
 matrimony is the work of God and sorcery the work of the Devil, the
 work of the Devil will be stronger than the work of God. If, on the
 other hand, it is granted that it happens only to fornicators and not to
 married people, then the view will return that sorcery does not exist in
 the reality but only in people’s opinion (the opposite of this was treated
 in QuestionOne)372 oranexplanationwillhavetobegivenforwhythese
 things can happen to one group and not the other. While it seems that
 there is no other underlying reason except that matrimony is the work
 of God(and this reason is not, according to the theologians, conclusive,
 as is clear in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 30, “On the
 impediment caused by sorcery” [4.1.3]), there still remains the argument
 that the work of the Devil will be stronger than the work of God, and
 since it is inappropriate to claim this, therefore it is also inappropriate 52D
 to claim that the sexual act can be impeded through sorcery.
 [AG 2] Likewise, the Devil cannot impede acts of the other natural
 forces, like eating, walking and having an erection, which seems to be
 true on the grounds that they373 would be able to destroy the entire
 world.
 [AG3]Also,sincethesexualactisthesameinrespecttoeverywoman,
 then if it is impeded, it is impeded in terms of every woman.
 [SC] But this is false, and therefore so too is the first argument. That
 it is false is shown by experience in that those who say that they have
 been affected by sorcery are potent in respect to other women (though
 not in respect to those whom someone cannot know,374 because he does
 not wish to, and so cannot).
 371 This is the second topic indicated in 45B.
 372 7D–8A.
 373 I.e., the demons.
 374 I.e., carnally.
188
 The Hammer of Witches 52D–53B
 [SC 2] To the contrary and in support of the truth is Chapter “Si per
 sortiarias”(34,Q.8) and also in the pronouncement of all theologians
 and canonists, when they deal with the impediment to marriage caused
 by sorcery.
 53A
 53B
 [SC 3] Likewise, reason points in this direction, since the power of
 the demon is greater than that of a man and a man can impede the
 faculty to procreate, whether through very cold plants or through other
 impedimentsandso, assomeonecanimagine,andthereforethedemon,
 who possesses keener knowledge, can do this to a greater degree.
 [CO]Response.Onthebasisoftwomattersthatwerediscussedabove,
 the truth can become sufficiently clear, though the manner of impeding
 was not explained in theoretical terms. It was stated that sorcery does
 not exist solely in the opinion of men as if it were non-existent in reality,
 but rather countless effects from sorcery can happen truly and really
 with God’s permission. It has also been shown that because of its greater
 corruption God gives more permission regarding the procreative force
 than regarding other human acts.
 It shouldbenotedwithreferencetothewayinwhichthisimpediment
 is brought about that a demon does so not only in connection with the
 force of procreation but also in connection with the force of imagination
 or fantasy. About this Peter de Palude notes five ways in the Commentary
 on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 34. He says that because he is a spirit, the
 demonhaspoweroverabodilycreaturetorestrainorcauseitsmovement
 in location, and that for this reason he can sometimes impede bodies
 fromapproaching a creature by directly or indirectly interposing himself
 in anassumedbody,ashappenedtothefianc´ ewhohadbecomeengaged
 to an idol and nonetheless contracted a marriage with a young girl but
 could not know her because of this. The second way is to make a man
 conceive a burning desire for that act or make him cool off towards it by
 secretly applying the virtues of objects that he knows to be effective for
 this. The third way is by stirring up the estimation and the imagination.
 Hethereby renders the womanloathsome, because he can, as was stated,
 make an impression on the imagination. The fourth way is by directly
 suppressing the hardness of the member suitable for propagation in
 the same way that he can also suppress movement in location. The
 f
 ifth way is by halting the sending of spirits to the limbs in which the
 virtue of motion resides, as if closing off the seed’s paths to prevent
 it from going down to the vessels of procreation or from departing or
 coming out or being sent forth from them. There are also many other
 ways.
Part I 53B–D
 189
 HealsoaddswhatwastreatedbytheotherDoctorsabove,speakingin
 agreement with them. God gives a greater permission regarding this act,
 by which the first sin is spread, than regarding other human acts. The
 case is the same with snakes, which are more useful for enchantments
 than are other animals.
 A few sentences later he says the following. The same is the case 53C
 with a woman, in that the demon can derange her imagination to such
 an extent that she considers her husband loathsome, so that she would
 not let him know her for all the world. Later he wishes to give a reason
 for why men are more affected by sorcery in connection with this act
 than are women, and hesays that because this impediment is sometimes
 made through blockage of the vessel or by motion through suppression
 of the stiffness of the member, things that can be done better and more
 easily in the case of men, more men than women are affected by sorcery.
 Someonecouldalso say that the reason is that more women than men
 are superstitious and wish to entice men more than women, or that they
 do this to disgrace a married woman. The result in each case is that
 they create an opportunity for committing adultery when the man can
 know other women but not his own. Similarly, the wife can be seeking
 other men as lovers. He also adds that God gives more permission to
 the demons to act savagely against sinners than against the just. Hence,
 the angel said to Tobias, “The demon receives power over those who
 devotethemselvestolust”[Tobias6:17].(Hesometimesreceivesitagainst
 the just, as in the case of Job, but not in connection with the power of
 procreation.) For these reasons they ought to make confessions and 53D
 do other good deeds, lest the application of medicine be vain when the
 sword remains in the wound. This is what Peter says.
 There will be an explanation about the removal of such an effect in
 Part Three375 of the work.
 Incidentally, some doubtful points are explained
 Incidentally,if it isaskedwhyitissometimesimpededinrespect
 to one woman and not another, the response according to Bonaventure
 is the following. Either a fortune teller or a sorceress changed the Devil
 to this end in respect to the intended person, or God did not allow a
 impediment in respect to a given person. For God’s hidden judgment is
 concealed here, as is clear in the case of Tobias’ wife [Tobias 6:17]. He
 375 Actually, Pt. ii,Q.2, Ch. 3 (164A–166A).
190
 The Hammer of Witches 53D–54B
 54A
 54B
 adds that if it is asked how the Devil does this, one should say that he
 impedes the power to procreate by harming, not the organ through an
 internal impediment, but the use of it through an external impediment.
 Hence, because it is a impediment caused by art and not by nature,
 he can bring about in terms of one woman a impediment that he does
 not bring about in terms of others by removing the arousal of lust in
 connection with her and not with another (by his own virtue or with a
 plant or a stone or some other hidden nature).376 These statements are
 consonant with the words of Peter de Palude.
 Also, since this sometimes happens in connection with the faculty for
 this act as a result of a frigidity377 of nature or a natural defect, if it is
 asked how it can be discerned whether or not it has happened as a result
 of sorcery, Hostiensis’ response in the Summa [4.15.13]– this should not
 be preached in public– is that when the rod378 is in no way aroused and
 the man could not know the woman, this is a sign of frigidity, but when
 it is aroused and grows stiff but he cannot complete the job, it is a sign
 of sorcery.
 It should further be noted that sorcery is practiced not merely to
 prevent someone from being able to carry out this act, but sometimes
 it is also practiced to prevent a woman from conceiving or to cause
 her to miscarry. Note, however, that according to the penalties of the
 Canons everyone who, for the sake of fulfilling the lust for vengeance
 or for hatred, does to a man or woman something because of which
 he or she cannot beget or conceive is considered a murderer (Extra
 [Decretum], “Murder” “Si aliquis”). Note that this chapter is speaking in
 general terms about lovers in the secular world who, in order to avoid
 censure, cause such things in their girlfriends without the aid of demons
 through potions or through certain plants that make the nature very
 frigid. Therefore, if penitent, they should be punished as murderers.
 On the other hand, sorceresses who cause such things through sorcery
 should be punished with the ultimate penalty according to the laws, as
 was mentioned above in Question One.379
 As a solution to the arguments in which a difficulty is raised as to
 whether such things can happen to those joined in marriage, it should
 further be realized that although the truth about this is not clear on
 the basis of the topics that have been discussed, nonetheless such things
 376 Here“nature”referstotheparticularcharacteristicofsomeitemratherthanthebroaderconcept
 of the natural world. In this sense, the term is synonymous with “virtue.”
 377 Here meant literally, i.e., sexual dysfunction is the result of a “coldness” of the temperament.
 378 I.e., the penis.
 379 9C–10A (on the penalties, not the causing of miscarriages).
Part I 54B–D
 191
 can really and truly happen to those in marriage just as they can to
 those out of it. The careful reader who has access to books will find
 that both theologians and canonists (especially in the Extra [Decretum]
 on the topic “Frigid People and those Affected by Sorcery” [4.15], and
 in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 34) agree with each
 other and refute two errors, particularly with reference to people joined
 in marriage. The advocates of these errors seemed to hold the view that
 such sorcery cannot take place among those joined in marriage, being
 motivated by the old arguments that the Devil cannot destroy the works
 of God.
 The first refutation made by the theologians and canonists rebutted 54C
 those who said that there was no such thing as sorcery in the world but
 that it existed only in the opinion of people who, out of ignorance of the
 hiddencausesthatnohumansareabletoknow,ascribednaturaleffectsto
 acts of sorcery, as if it were not hidden causes but demons by themselves
 or through sorcerers that were producing these effects. Though this
 error is refuted by all the Doctors under the rubric of simple falsity, it
 is attacked more keenly by St. Thomas when he condemns it as heresy,
 saying that this error is rooted in heresy, and since lack of faith in the case
 of aChristian is called heresy, such people are justly suspected as heretics.
 (This topic has also been discussed in Question One,380 though there it
 wasnotexplainedinthismanner.)Forifsomeoneconsidersothersayings
 of the Holy Doctor in other passages, he finds reasons why the Doctor
 asserts that this error is rooted in heresy. In the treatment of demons
 in Questions on Evil, inQ. 1 [16.1] (whether demons have bodies that
 are naturally attached to them), among other things described there, 54D
 mention is made of those who ascribed individual effects to the virtues
 of the heavenly bodies, to which they said that the hidden causes for
 the lower results were subordinate. He says that it should be considered
 that the Peripatetics (the followers of Aristotle) did not hypothesize
 the existence of demons but said that those things that are ascribed to
 demonsderivefromthepoweroftheheavenlybodiesandofothernatural
 things. Hence, Augustine says (City of God,Bk.10 [10.11]) that Porphyry
 thought that with plants, and with stones, and with certain animate
 creatures and sounds, and with words, and with certain configurations
 and formations observed in certain motions of the stars in the turning
 of the sky, the powers of the stars suitable for producing various effects
 were fabricated by humans on earth. From these statements the error
 380 7D–8A.
192
 The Hammer of Witches 54D–55C
 55A
 55B
 55C
 is obvious. They ascribed everything to the hidden causes of the stars,
 the demons merely being fabrications based on the conjectures of men.
 That this hypothesis is false is demonstrated manifestly by St. Thomas
 (same passage) on the basis of the fact that certain actions of demons are
 found that can in no way derive from some natural cause. For example,
 when someone possessed by a demon speaks an unknown language,
 and many other works of demons are found in the case both of those
 possessed with prophesy and of the nigromantic arts, which can in no
 way derive from anything but some intellect, being good by nature
 at least, though evil by will. For this reason, other philosophers were
 forced by the inappropriateness mentioned to hypothesize the existence
 of demons,thoughafterwardstheyfellintovariouserrors.Somethought
 that souls leaving the body become demons, as a result of which many
 diviners killed children so that they would have their souls working with
 them, and many other errors are described here. Hence, it is clear that
 it is not unjust for the Holy Doctor to say that such a view is rooted in
 lack of faith. If someone wants to, let him read Augustine in Bks. 8 and
 9 of The City of God about various errors of the faithless regarding the
 nature of demons. Therefore, the general reasoning of all the Doctors,
 cited in the aforementioned distinction, against those who hold such
 errors (those who deny that there is any such thing as sorcery) is also
 very compelling as a pronouncement, though it is short in words. Here
 they say that those who claim that there is no such thing as sorcery in the
 world contradict the pronouncements of all the Doctors and of Holy
 Scripture, which explains that there are demons and that demons have
 power over the bodies and imaginations of men with God’s permission,
 as a result of which sorcerers can in fact work wonders on creatures
 through these demons. Hence, the tools of those demons and those
 at whose insistence the demons sometimes work to harm creatures are
 justly called sorcerers [Lat. “malefici,” lit. “evildoers”].
 Indeed, while in the refutation of this first error by the Doctors no
 mentionismadeofpeoplejoinedinmarriage,nonethelesstheirinclusion
 is clearintherefutationoftheseconderror.FortheDoctorssaythatitwas
 the error of others that although sorcery did exist and was widespread in
 the worldevenagainst copulation, nonetheless, because no act of sorcery
 canbeconsideredpermanent,itcouldneverterminateamarriagealready
 contracted. Look, mention is made of people joined in marriage!
 As for their rebuttal of this error, while to explain this is irrelevant to
 the issue at hand, nonetheless, for the sake of those who do not have
 access to the books, it should benotedthattheymadethecondemnation
 on the grounds that they say that to make such claims is contrary to the
Part I 55C–D
 193
 proof of experience and to ancient and modern laws. Hence, Catholic
 Doctors make the distinction that impotence caused by sorcery is either
 temporaryorpermanent.Iftemporary,itcausesnoimpediment,anditis
 presumed to be temporary when those living together for less than three
 years and striving as much as they can to be healed, whether through
 the Sacraments of the Church or through other cures, cannot. If, on
 the other hand, they are not healed by any cure, then the impotence is
 presumed to be permanent. In that case, it predates the contraction and
 consummation of the marriage and in this way impedes the contraction
 of a marriage and terminates one already contracted, or it follows the
 contraction of the marriage but not the consummation and in this way
 too, as some say, it terminates a marriage already contracted (33,Q. 1,
 Ch.1saysthat marriage is strengthened by duty, namely that of the flesh,
 according to the gloss), or it follows the consummation of the marriage
 and in that case it does not terminate the bond of marriage. More notes 55D
 are made on that passage (Extra [Decretum] “The frigid” and so on) by
 Hostiensis and Geoffrey and the Doctors, as well as theologians (cited
 above).
 As for the arguments.
 [RA1]Asforthefirst,theresponseisclearenoughfromthestatements
 already made. In the first place, it is not valid to insist that the works of
 God can be destroyed through the works of the Devil if sorcery could
 take place among people joined in matrimony. Rather the opposite is
 clear, since the Devil has no power except by God’s permission. Also,
 because he can destroy not through violence like a tyrant but through a
 certain external art, as was explained above.381
 [RA 2] As for the second, it was explained above382 why God gives
 His permission for power over this (sexual) act rather than over other
 acts, and why the demon also has power over other acts when God gives
 His permission. Hence, it is not a valid argument that he would destroy
 the world.
 [RA3]Asforthethird,thereisasimilarexplanationfromtheprevious
 statements.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 8:
 Aq., On Evil 16.1
 Sent. 4.34.1.3
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5]
 381 The point is made several times, but presumably 45D is meant.
 382 45C–D.
194
 The Hammer of Witches 56A–B
 question nine: whether sorceresses work on
 male members through the illusion of conjuring
 as if these limbs were completely pulled out
 of the body
 56A
 56B
 [TT] THIRD,383 the same truth is explained through the Devil’s
 workings on the male member, and in order for the truth of this matter
 to become more evident, it is asked whether sorceresses are able to take
 away male members really and truly through the virtue of demons or
 merely through an appearance caused by conjuring.
 [AG1] It is argued by an a fortiori argument that they can really and
 truly do so. Demons have greater powers, such as that of killing people
 or moving them in location, as was explained above in the case of Job
 and the killing of the seven husbands in Tobias. Therefore, they can also
 really and truly take away the limbs384 of a man.
 [AG 2] Also, the gloss on the passage “inflictions by evil angels” (a
 psalm [77:49]) says, “God punishes through evil angels in the same way
 that He often punished the people of Israel by really and truly inflicting
 various debilitating diseases on their bodies.” Therefore, he385 can also
 inflict such illnesses on that member. If someone says that he has this
 power byGod’spermission, then in that case it was said in the preceding
 questions that Godgivesgreater permission for the powertoprocreateto
 be affected by sorcery because of the first corruption of sin that descends
 to us through the act of begetting, and therefore He also gives greater
 permission concerning the member used in the faculty of procreation,
 so that the demon takes it away entirely.
 [AG3]Also, the transformation of Lot’s wife into a pillar of salt (Gen.
 19[:26]) was a greater act than that of taking away the male member,
 but that was a real and true change and not a merely apparent one,
 since that pillar can still be seen, as is reported. This transformation
 was performed by an evil angel, just as the people felt the compulsion
 of the good angels, who had previously struck them with blindness,
 in order that they would not be able to find the door of the house.
 This was also just like the other punishments of the inhabitants of
 Sodom, the commentary on the same passage also claiming that she
 was tainted with that vice too. Therefore, the demons can also do such
 things.
 383 This is the third method by which sorceresses obstruct procreation, as laid out in 45B.
 384 The Latin membrum signifies both “limb” in general and the male “member” in particular, and
 the use of the plural here must refer to more than just the sexual “limb.”
 385 I.e., the Devil.
Part I 56B–D
 195
 [AG 4] Also, whoever can produce a natural shape can also take it
 away. Demons have induced natural shapes many times, as is clearly the
 case with the magicians of Pharaoh, who made frogs and snakes through
 the power of demons [Exodus 8:7, 7:11–12].
 [AG5]Likewise,Augustinesays(BookofEighty-ThreeQuestions[actu
ally, Twenty-One Pronouncements 4]) that it is not ridiculous to believe
 that all these things that are in fact done visibly by the lower powers
 of the air can be done.386 Humans are able to bring it about that the
 member is taken away by some art or cutting. Therefore, demons too
 have the power to do invisibly these things that others can do visibly.
 [SC]But to the contrary, Augustine says (City of God,Bk.18 [18.18]), 56C
 “It should not be believed that a man’s body can in fact be transformed
 into the outlines of a beast by the craft or power of demons,” and there
fore, by similar reasoning, he cannot take away that which contributes
 to the reality of the human body. Likewise, he says (The Trinity,Bk.3
 [3.8]), “It should not be thought that the substance of things visible here
 serves those sinful angels at their beck and call. Instead, it serves God
 alone.”
 [CO] Response. No one doubts that sorceresses perform certain
 miraculous works with reference to male members. Indeed, on the basis
 of what very many people have seen and heard and indeed on the basis
 of general repute, there is general agreement that the truth about that
 member was recognized through the sense of sight or touch.
 Asforhowthiscanhappen,oneshouldsaythatwhileitcanhappenin
 twoways, namely really and truly, as the first arguments mentioned, and
 by the working of conjuring, those acts that are performed by sorcerers
 with reference to such things are performed only through the illusion of
 conjuring. This illusion does not, however, take place in the imagination
 of the person affected, since his imagination can really and truly estimate
 that the thing is not present, (he does not perceive its presence through 56D
 any working of the external sense, namely vision or touch). Hence, it
 can be said that there is a true removal of the member from the point of
 view of the imagination of the person affected, though not from that of
 the thing itself.
 Asfor howthishappens, several things should be noted. First, the two
 waysinwhichsuchthingscanhappen.ItisnowonderthattheDevilcan
 386 The text of Augustine has been garbled; it should read, “it is not ridiculous to believe that all
 the things that are in fact done visibly can be done by the lower powers of this air.” The phrase
 “this air” signifies the lower atmosphere in which people live (as opposed to the atmosphere of
 the heavenly orbs).
196
 The Hammer of Witches 56D–57B
 deceive the external human senses, when he can play tricks on the inner
 ones that were discussed above by bringing out preserved forms to the
 origins of their perception. He deceives them in their natural working,
 so that what is visible is invisible to the person, what is touchable is
 untouchable, what is audible is inaudible, and so on with the other
 senses. This truth makes no such assumption from the point of view of
 the thing itself, because everything happens as a result of a change of the
 organs that aid the functions of seeing, hearing and so on. Such organs
 are, for instance, the eyes and hands, and when these are changed, the
 judgment of perception is now tricked.
 57A
 57B
 We can illustrate these facts from certain natural phenomena. In the
 case of someone with a fever, sweet wine seems bitter because of his
 tongue having been tainted, and as a result his taste is deceived (from
 the point of view not of the thing but of the humors), and similarly in
 the other case there is no deception from the point of view of the thing
 (rather the rod is attached), but there is a deception from the point of
 view of the organ of sense.
 Again, in the way that was discussed above with regards to impeding
 the power to procreate through the interposition of some other body
 of the samecolor andappearance, they can also interpose a smooth body
 that is fashioned with flesh color between the vision of the eyes and the
 touchofthehandsontheonehandandtherealbodyofthepersonbeing
 affected on theother,withtheresultthatinhisownjudgmenttheperson
 can see nothing but a smooth body that is not interrupted387 by any
 member. Let the words of St. Thomas be examined in the Commentary
 on Pronouncements,Bk. 2, Dist. 8 Art. 5 [2.8.1.5] on the illusions of
 conjuring and similarly in Second of the Second,Q.91 [actually, 95.3]
 and in Questions on Evil [16.9]. There he often cites the quotation of
 Augustine from the Book of Eighty-Three Questions [2]: “This evil creeps
 in through all avenues of perception. It adopts shapes, it adorns itself
 in colors, it clings to sounds, it subordinates itself to smells, it suffuses
 itself with flavors.”
 Also, reason indicates that it is not only through the interposing of
 some perceptible body without a male member that such an illusion
 of conjuring is brought about in the person seeing and touching but
 also by the method by which certain preserved spirits (images) are
 brought out to the person’s internal sources of perception,388 namely to
 387 In its smoothness, it would seem.
 388 “Source of perception” is the rather unsatisfactory translation for the Latin principia sensitiua,a
 term which derives from Aquinas Summa 78.4. Principium (lit. “beginning”) is the Latin term
Part I 57B–D
 197
 theimaginationandfantasy.Asaresultofthis,ithappensthatsomething
 is imagined as if it were being derived from the external sense for the
 f
 irst time. As was discussed in the preceding question,389 demons can
 change bodies in location by their own virtue, and as a result of the
 transformation of the spirits and humors they390 do happen according
 to the working of nature. I say that some things are seen naturally in
 terms of the imagination or sense of perception because in Sleep and
 Wakefulness [2] the Philosopher too says, when assigning the cause of
 the apparition of dreams, that a large amount of blood descends to the
 source of perception when an animal has fallen asleep, and at the same
 time movements or impressions left behind after the motions of the
 perceptible objects also descend, these impressions being preserved in
 perceptible spirits (these technical terms are explained above),391 so that
 at that time certain things appear as if the senses were being changed for
 the first time by the external things. Since nature can do this, a fortiori
 the Devil can bring forth to the power of fantasy and imagination the
 forms (pictures) of a perceptible body that is not equipped with a male
 member, with the result that from this the senses form a judgment as 57C
 if this were the case in reality. In the same way, as will be explained
 below,392 people appear to be animals, though they are not in reality.
 Second,393 note should be made of other ways that are easier to
 understand and preach. Conjuring is, according to Isidore (Etymologies,
 Bk. 8, Ch. 9), nothing other than a delusion of the senses, especially of
 the eyes, and the word is derived from “prestringo” [“bedazzle”] because
 it bedazzles the vision of the eyes in such a way that things seem other
 than how they are. As Alexander of Hales says (Part Two), “Properly
 speaking, conjuring is an illusion of the demon. This has no cause from
 the point of view of a change in the object but only from the point of
 view of the perceiver, who deceived, in terms of either the internal or
 the external senses.” Hence, speaking in general terms about the art of
 conjuring on the part of humans, let us say that this can happen in 57D
 used to translate arkhe in Aristotle and signifies the “source from which something proceeds.”
 The English derivative “principle” refers to an abstract notion from which a concept derives,
 but in the discussion adapted here Aquinas clearly has in mind some physical property or
 faculty in the head to which the images derived from the sensory organs travel and “cause” the
 mind’s perception of the external thing.
 389 Actually, Q. 7 (46A–52B).
 390 The antecedent of this is not clear. Presumably, ”such perceived images” or the like is meant.
 391 48A.
 392 Q. 10 (59B–55D).
 393 As laid out in 56D.
198
 The Hammer of Witches 57D–58A
 three ways. One is without demons, and this is better termed “illusion,”
 because it happens artfully through manipulation on the part of people
 who show or hide certain objects, as happens in the sleight of hand
 performed by clowns and mimes.
 Another way also takes place without the virtue of demons, inasmuch
 as it takes place naturally through the virtue of natural bodies, partic
ularly minerals. Those who possess these things are able, in accordance
 with a certain virtue inherent to these things, to show an object or make
 it appear different from the way that it in fact is. Hence, according to
 Thomas(First Part,Q.114,Art.4) [actually, Sent. 2.8.1.5.Ra4] and many
 others, the smoke of a certain plant, when it is kindled at the bottom or
 top, makes planks appear to be snakes.
 The third sort of deception is the one that happens through demons,
 thoughwithGod’spermission.Ashasbeenexplained,bynaturedemons
 have a certain power over lower objects that they can exercise over them
 when God allows, so that at that time things appear other than the way
 that they are.394
 58A
 In connection with this, it should be noted, third,395 that there are
 f
 ive ways in which a demon can use an illusion on someone so that he
 judges an object to be other than the way that it is. The first way is with
 an artful sleight of hand, as has been said. For whatever a human knows
 how to do by art, a demon can know better. The second way is the
 natural use of some object, in the manner already stated. He interposes
 some body so that another body is concealed, or achieves his end with
 people’s fantasies by throwing them into confusion. The third way is
 when in an assumed body he shows himself to be something which he
 is not. Gregory speaks of this way in a story about a nun in Bk. 1 of
 Dialogues [1.4.7]. She ate a lettuce, but as the demon himself confessed,
 this was not a lettuce but the demon in the guise of a lettuce or in the
 lettuce itself. The same thing also happened to Anthony in connection
 with aningot ofgoldthat hefoundinthedesert. It is also the same when
 he conceals a real human and makes him seem to be a dumb animal in a
 way that will be described later.396 The fourth way is when, for instance,
 he disturbs the organ of vision so that a thing that is clear seems cloudy
 or conversely an old woman seems a young girl. For after a bout of
 crying the light also looks different than it did before. The fifth way is to
 work on the faculty of imagination and bring about a transformation of
 394 56C–58B.
 395 As laid out in 56D.
 396 Q. 10 (59B).
Part I 58B–D
 199
 the perceptible pictures by stirring up the humors in the way that was 58B
 discussed above,397 so that in that case seemingly fresh and new visions
 are produced in the powers of perception.
 In the last three ways and also in the second one, the Devil canimpose
 an illusion upon a man’s senses through the art of conjuring, and hence
 there is no difficulty to keep him from hiding the male member through
 the art of conjuring. Let a clear indication or proof from experience that
 wasrevealed to us whenwewereservingasinquisitors be set downbelow
 in the Second Part398 of the treatise, where many accounts about this
 and other deeds are related.
 How sorcery can be distinguished from a natural defect
 Anincidental question with certain other difficulties. If the
 following question is posed: “Peter has had his member removed, but
 he does not know whether it has been removed through sorcery or else
 through the power of a demon with God’s permission. Are there ways
 of judging and deciding among these possibilities?” it is possible to give
 the answer that there are.
 First, those to whomthesethingshappenareforthemostpartadulter
ers or else fornicators, and hence whentheydonotservetheirgirlfriends 58C
 at their beckandcallorwhentheywishtoleavethemandjointhemselves
 to other women, then the girlfriends cause such effects for vengeance
 or else cut off the potency of that member. Second, it is recognized as
 sorcery by its impermanence. For if it is not the result of sorcery, then it
 is not permanent but will recur on occasion.
 In this case, there again arises a hesitation as to whether its imperma
nence is a result of the nature of the sorcery. The answer is that it can be
 permanentandlastuntil death, as was also the case with the impediment
 of marriage caused by sorcery. Canonists and theologians judge that it is
 foundtobebothtemporaryandpermanent.GeoffreysaysintheSumma
 [4.15], “A spell of sorcery cannot always be broken bythepersonwhocast
 it, because he is dead or because he does not know how to terminate it
 or because the spell of sorcery is ruined,” (and from this we can likewise
 say that the sorcery inflicted on Peter will be permanent) “or because the
 sorceress who cast the spell cannot heal him.” For sorceresses come in
 three varieties. Some heal and harm, some harm but are unable to heal,
 some only seem to heal, that is, to remove injuries, as will be explained 58D
 397 48A.
 398 This topic is treated in Pt. ii,Q.2, Ch. 7 (115A–118D), but no personal anecdote appears there.
200
 The Hammer of Witches 58D–59A
 below.399 The following came to our knowledge. Two sorceresses were
 quarreling with one another, each upbraiding the other, and one said,
 “I am not really bad the way you are, because I know how to heal those
 whom I harm.” Or the spell will last when the sorceress departs before
 he is healed, either by changing her location or by departing from this
 life. St. Thomas also says, “A given spell of sorcery may be permanent,
 so that it cannot have a human cure, because although it has a cure, this
 is unknown or is impermissible for a human, though God could offer a
 cure through a Holy Angel, applying compulsion to the demon, though
 not to the sorceress.”
 Nonetheless, the best cure for sorcery is the sacrament of Penitence
 (Extra [Decretum, Title] “The Frigid” [4.15]). For bodily illness also often
 results from sin (Extra [Decretum,] Title “Penances,” “Cum infirmitas”).
 How spells of sorcery should be broken will also be explained in Part
 Three400 of the treatise, and in Chapter Six of Part Two three other
 differences will be discussed.
 59A
 Solutions to the arguments
 [RA 1] As for the first, it is clear that no one doubts that just as
 they can kill people with God’s permission, they can also take away that
 member (and other limbs, too), really and truly. But in that case, the
 demons are not working through sorceresses, who are the topic of the
 present discussion.
 [RA 2] Through these statements the solution to the second is clear.
 As for the argument that because God gives greater permission for
 the power to procreate to be affected by sorcery because (and so on),
 and therefore permission is also given for that member to be really and
 truly taken away, it does not mean that this is what always happens,
 because it would not be by means of sorcery that this happened, nor
 do the sorceresses affect this when they perform such works, since they
 do not possess the ability to restore the member when they are willing
 and knowledgeable. Hence, it is clear that it is not truly taken away but
 merely through the art of conjuring.
 [RA 3] As for the third (the one about Lot’s wife being transformed),
 this was a true transformation and not one performed through the art
 of conjuring, and the art of conjuring is what we are now discussing.
 399 95D, 155C–156B.
 400 Pt. ii,Q.2 is meant.
Part I 59A–C
 201
 [RA 4] As for the fourth (that demons can produce certain essen
tial forms and can therefore take them away), it is said with ref- 59B
 erence to Pharaoh’s magicians that they made true snakes, and that
 demons can, with the help of something else as the agent, produce
 effects in connection with imperfect creatures that they cannot pro
duce in connection with humans, since God cares more about them
 according to the passage, “Does God care about oxen?” [I Cor. 9:9].
 Nonetheless, with God’s permission, as has been said, demons can in
 fact always harm humans in a real and true manner or else by the art of
 conjuring.
 [RA 5] Through these statements the solution to the last argument is
 also clear.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 9:
 Aq., On Evil 16.9, 11
 Sent. 2.8.1.5
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.1, 7]
 tenth question: whether sorceresses work on
 humans by turning them into the shapes of beasts
 through the art of conjuring
 [TT] FOURTH,401 the truth oftheirturning humans into beasts
 is explained.
 [AG 1] As for how this happens, it is argued on the basis of Chapter
 “Episcopi” fromtheCouncilofAcquira402 (26,Q.5)thatitisnotpossible
 for this to happen: “Whoever believes that a creature can be created 59C
 or changed for the better or worse or turned into a different variety or
 appearance except by the Creator Himself Who made everything and
 through Whom everything was made is without a doubt an infidel and
 worse than a pagan.” Let us use the arguments of St. Thomas in the
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.3, Dist. 8 (“Whether demons can
 makeanimpressiononthebodilysenses bydeceiving themthroughacts
 of conjuring.” [Sent. 2.8.5.Ag4]), where he first403 argues that they do
 401 This is the fourth method by which sorceresses obstruct procreation, as laid out in 45B.
 402 A garbling of the erroneous notion that the Canon “Episcopi” was promulgated at the Synod
 of Ancyra (see n. 151).
 403 Since this is the fifth argument for the initial (incorrect) answer to the question, presumably
 “first” distinguishes this argument from the later (correct) view.
202
 The Hammer of Witches 59C–60A
 not. For the form404 of the animal that is seen ought to exist somewhere,
 but it cannot exist merely in the sense of perception because a sense
 holds no image except what it has received from objects. There cannot
 exist a real beast there on the cited authority of the Canon, nor again
 can it exist in the object that is seen, for instance when a woman is seen
 as a beast, because two essential forms cannot exist in the same place at
 one and the same time. Therefore, since that animal shape that is seen
 cannot exist anywhere, it cannot be the case that an illusion of conjuring
 is being made in the eye of the viewer, since vision must necessarily be
 determined by some shape.
 [AG2]Also,ifitissaidthattheshapeinquestionisinthesurrounding
 59D
 60A
 air, this cannot be so, because the air is not receptive of some form
 (image), because the air around that person cannot always remain one
 andthesameonaccountofitsfluidnature,especiallywhenitmoves,and
 also because in that case the transformation would be seen by everyone,
 which does not happen because it seems to be the case that the demons
 do not deceive the eyes of holy men, at any rate.
 [AG 3] Also, the sense (or faculty) of vision is a passive faculty, but
 everything passive is moved by an active agent proportionate to it, and
 the active agent proportionate to the sense of perception is twofold.
 One is the thing that, as it were, originates the act, namely its object.
 The other is like an intermediary that, as it were, delivers it. Yet, the
 shape that is seen cannot be the object of the sense of perception or the
 intermediary that, as it were, delivers it.
 Regarding the first argument405 (that it cannot be the object), the
 reason is that it cannot be received from anything, as was discussed in
 the preceding question, since it is not in the sense of perception from
 the thing received, nor is it in the thing itself or even in the air as if
 in the intermediary of delivery, as was previously discussed in the third
 argument.
 [AG 4] Also, if a demon sets the internal power of recognition in
 motion, he does this either by showing himself to the virtue of recogni
tion or by changing it. He does not do so by showing himself because it
 would be necessary either to assume a body, in which case he would not
 be able to enter into the organ of imagination, since two bodies cannot
 exist at the same time in the same place, or by assuming a fantastical
 404 In medieval philosophy, “form” was the technical term for the abstract “concept” that defines
 a category.
 405 I.e., the first argument in the previous paragraph of the present (third) main argument (which
 is the sense of “third argument” at the end of this paragraph).
Part I 60A–C
 203
 image, whichlikewise cannotbethecasebecauseafantastical image can
not exist without mass and a demon lacks any mass. Similarly, he also
 cannot do this by causing a change, because he would make the change
 either by causing an alteration,406 which it seems he cannot do because
 every alteration takes place through active characteristics that demons
 lack, or by bringing about a change in form or a movement in location,
 which seems to be unacceptable for two reasons. First, a change in form
 of the organ cannot take place without a sense of pain, and second,
 by this reasoning the demon would be showing the person only things
 already known, while Augustine [Spirit and Soul 28] says that the demon
 shows a person forms both known and unknown. Therefore, it seems
 that demons can in no way deceive a human’s power of imagination or
 sensing.
 [SC1] Buttothecontrary, Augustine says (City of God,Bk.18 [18.18]),
 that changes of humans into the shape of dumb animals that are said 60B
 to have been performed through the art of demons did not take place
 in reality but only in appearance. This would not happen if the demons
 were incapable of changing the human senses of perception.
 [SC 2] Also, the authority of Augustine in the Book of Eighty-Three
 Questions [12], which was cited before, also indicates this: “This evil of
 the demon creeps in through all the entrances of the senses...”
 [CO] Response. If the reader wishes to make an examination of the
 methodofmakingachange,hewillfindthevariousmethodsinChapter
 Six of the Second Part407 of the work. For the moment, let us merely
 proceed in the scholastic manner and mention pronouncements of three
 Doctors that agree about the Devil’s ability to deceive a man’s fantasy so
 that a real person is seen as an animal. Among these pronouncements,
 the last is more subtle than the others and is that of St. Thomas.
 The first is that of Lord Antoninus in the Pt. 1 of the Summa, Title
 5 [actually, 2], Ch. Six, §Five, where he explains that the Devil some
times works on a man’s fantasy to cause a deception, especially in terms
 of imposing an illusion upon the senses. He bases his explanation on
 natural reasoning, the authority of the Canon and many varieties of
 proof through experience. The first is as follows. “Bodies are naturally
 subordinate to and obey the nature of angels in terms of movement in 60C
 location. Bad angels, even if they have lost Grace, have nonetheless not
 406 “Alteration” is the technical term for the process by which a characteristic (quality) of an object
 is changed by the action of another body.
 407 Actually, Ch. 8 of Pt. ii,Q.2 (118D–121A). The fact that the question is not specified may have
 to do with a change in the threefold division of the work as a whole.
204
 The Hammer of Witches 60C–D
 lost their natural virtue, as was discussed several times above. Since the
 faculty of fantasy (imagination) is a bodily one, that is, one attached to
 an organ of the body, it is also naturally subordinate to the evil angels,
 so that they can change it in form by creating various fantasies through
 causing the humors and spirits to descend to the origin of perception.”
 He adds, “This is also clear from the Canon (26,Q.5,“Episcopi”): ‘It
 should not be overlooked that certain criminal women, converting back
 to Satan and being led astray by the demons’ illusions and fantastical
 images, believe and proclaim that during the hours of the night they ride
 on certain beasts with Diana, a goddess of the pagans, or with Herodias
 andwithacountlessmultitudeofwomenandpassovergreatstretchesof
 the earth during the silence of the dead of night.’ And below: ‘Therefore,
 priests should preach to the congregation of God so that they know that
 these things are altogether false and that such images are inflicted on the
 mindsofthefaithfulnotbythedivinespiritbutbyanevil-mindedspirit.
 60D Forit is Satan himself who transforms himself into the appearances and
 resemblances of different persons, and by deluding in dreams the minds
 that he holds captive he takes them on journeys through all sorts of
 places off the beaten path.”’408
 Tobesure,theunderstandingofthisCanonwasdiscussedinQuestion
 One409 in terms of the four things that should be preached, but to say
 that they cannot be carried off410 when they affect this and are not
 impeded by the divine virtue would not be the proper understanding,
 because very often men who are not sorcerers are bodily transported
 over great stretches of the earth against their will. That it can happen in
 either way follows in the aforementioned Summa, and in Chapter “Nec
 Mirum”(samequestion)411 Augustine412 narrates that in the books of the
 pagans one can read about a certain female magician called Circe, who
 changed the companions of Ulysses413 into beasts. This was feigned with
 acts of illusion through conjuring rather than being brought to pass in
 reality, when she altered the fantasies of the men.
 This is made clear through further illustrations. One reads in the
 Lives of the Fathers, that because a certain young woman did not wish to
 408 This final quotation is an abridgement of the Canon “Episcopi.”
 409 11A.
 410 TheLatinvehimaymeanseveralthings.Itliterallymeans“becarried,”butmayalsosignify“ride
 [a means of transportation].” This paragraph seems to play upon both meanings, contrasting
 the “riding” of the sorceresses with examples of people being “carried off.” Note the similar
 usage in 50D.
 411 I.e., as the Canon “Episcopi.”
 412 Ultimate source unknown, but he is quoted to this effect in the canon.
 413 The Latin form of the Greek Odysseus, the hero of Homer’s Odyssey.
Part I 61A–B
 205
 comply with a young man who was importuning her for a base act, 61A
 the young man was agitated as a result of this and had a certain Jew414
 cast a spell of sorcery against her, and when this was done, the woman
 was changed into a filly. This change existed not in terms of reality but
 in terms of the trickery of a demon who changed the fantasy and the
 sense of perception of the woman herself and of those who looked at
 her, so that while really a woman, she was seen as a filly. Then, when
 she was brought to St. Macharius, the Devil could not work in such a
 way as to impose an illusion upon his senses as he had upon the others’
 because of Macharius’ holiness. For he saw her as a real woman and
 not as a filly, and eventually she was freed from that illusion through
 his prayers. She said that this had happened to her because she had not
 devoted herself to Divine Service or attended the Sacraments regularly,
 as she kept saying. For this reason, the Devil had held power over her,
 although she was otherwise respectable. Therefore, the Devil can, by
 stirring up the internal spirits and humors, work to change the operation
 and power of nourishment, perceiving and desiring, and of any other
 bodily faculty that makes use of an organ, according to St. Thomas (First
 Part,Q.111). One can believe that the same thing happened to Simon 61B
 the Magician in connection with the incantations that are related about
 him.415
 But the Devil can do none of these things except by the permission
 of God, Who, together with His good angels, often suppresses his evil
 whenheseekstodeceiveandharmus.HenceAugustinesaysinspeaking
 of sorcerers, “It is they who with God’s permission stir up the elements,
 throw into confusion the minds of people who have less Faith in God”
 (26,Q.5 “Nec mirum”).
 It is also by their working that it sometimes happens through the art
 of a sorceress that a husband cannot see his wife and vice versa. (This
 takes place by means of changing the fantasy by portraying the person to
 it as something hateful and horrible.) The devil himself also shows to the
 fantasy of those awake and of those asleep representations of base things
 in order to deceive them and lead them to an evil deed. But because sin
 resides not in the imagination but in the will, a human cannot sin as a
 result of fantasies like this that are offered by the Devil and of various
 alterations, unless he agrees to the sin by his own will.
 414 Jews were frequently considered to be practitioners of sorcery in medieval Europe.
 415 The story of Simon, a recently converted Samaritan who tried unsuccessfully to purchase from
 Peter and John the power of the Holy Spirit and thereby incurred Peter’s wrath is told in Acts
 8:9–24. Simon Magus was a popular figure in medieval tales of sorcery.
61C
 206
 The Hammer of Witches 61B–D
 The second pronouncement to this effect is that of modern Doctors
 who explain first what conjuring is and how many ways there are in
 which the Devil can produce illusions like this. At this point, note that
 AntoninuscitesthemattersthatwerediscussedearlierinQuestionNine,
 and hence it is not necessary to repeat them.416
 The third pronouncement is that of St. Thomas [Sent. 2.8.1.5.Ra4],
 and it is a response to the argument in which the question is raised as to
 whether the form of the beast that is seen is in the sense of perception or
 in the thing itself or in the surrounding air. This opinion is as follows.
 Theformofthebeastthatisseenexistsonlyintheprimaryinternalsense
 of perception, and through the strength of the imagination it overflows
 in some way into the external sense of perception. Its presence there can
 take place through the working of a demon in two ways. One way is
 that the pictures, let us say of animals, that are preserved in the treasury
 of the imagination flow, through the working of the demon, to the
 organs of the internal senses of perception (this is also what happens in
 61D
 dreams according to the explanation above),417 and accordingly when
 those pictures arrive, the organs of the outer senses of perception, for
 example vision, seem418 as if the objects were present outside and were
 actually being perceived. The other way can result from a change of
 the internal organs. When these are changed, the judgment of the
 perception is fooled. This is made clear in connection with the person
 who has had his sense of taste ruined and to whom everything sweet
 seems bitter. This way hardly differs from the first. Even people can
 do this through the virtue of certain natural things. For instance, in
 the fumes of a certain kind of smoke the planks of a house are seen as
 snakes. Many proofs of this are found in experience, as was discussed
 above.
 Solutions to the arguments
 As for the arguments.
 [RA1] Asfor the first, it is clear that that text is often cited and poorly
 understood. In terms of what it says about the changing of a form into
 another variety or appearance, an explanation has been given for how
 416 Actually, the material in Q. 9 does not seem to derive from the section of Antoninus cited in
 this question, which would seem to be the appropriate place to find it.
 417 47D–48A.
 418 I.e., seem to operate.
Part I 61D–62B
 207
 this can happen through the art of conjuring,419 but as for its saying
 that some creature cannot be made by the power of a demon, if “be
 made” is understood as “be created,” it is obvious that it cannot. If, on
 the other hand, “be made” is understood as “be made through a natural
 act of bringing forth,” it is certain that they can make certain imperfect
 creatures in this way.420 St. Thomas [First 1.114.4.Ra2] explains how this
 happens (citation as above). He says that all changes of bodily objects
 that can be made through certain natural powers, including the seeds
 that arefoundintheelementsofthisworld(inthewaythat,forexample, 62A
 snakes and frogs and other such creatures leave their seeds in the earth
 or in the water), can occur through the workings of demons with the
 use of such seeds, when, for example, something is changed into snakes
 or frogs, which can be begotten through rotting. On the other hand, the
 changes of bodily things that cannot be made by the virtue of nature
 can in no way be carried out in reality through the working of demons,
 for instance, a human body being changed into the body of a beast or
 the body of a dead man coming back to life. If this seems to happen, it
 is an appearance caused by conjuring or the Devil performing in front
 of people in an assumed body.
 These statements can be corroborated. In Animals,421 where he asks
 whether demons or even, let us say, sorcerers are able to make true ani
mals, Albert answered that they can with God’s permission. This is so
 in the case of imperfect animals, but they cannot do so in an instant
 the way that God can, but with a certain motion, though it is sud
den. This is clear in the case of sorcerers. On the passage in Exodus 8
 [actually, 7:11], “Pharaoh summoned the wise men,” he says, “Demons 62B
 scatter over the world and gather various seeds and through the use
 of them various varieties422 burst forth.” The gloss on the same pas
sage says, “When sorcerers attempt to bring about some result through
 invoking demons by incantation, they scatter over the world and sud
denly bring the seeds of the things that are the purpose of this activ
ity, and in this way they bring forth new appearances of things from
 these seeds with God’s permission.” These matters were also discussed
 above.423
 419 56A.
 420 Things are said to be “imperfect” if they do not fully participate in the characteristics that
 define the category into which they fall. These animals are imperfect because of the erroneous
 belief that they reproduced asexually (see 119B).
 421 Ultimate source unknown.
 422 I.e, of animals.
 423 Q. 3 (21B–26D, esp. 25B).
208
 The Hammer of Witches 62B–C
 If some difficulty arises as to whether such deeds of demons should be
 calledmiraculousworks,theanswerhasbecomeclearfromtheforegoing,
 namely that even demons can perform some true miracles, to which the
 virtue of their specific nature extends. Although these are true miracles,
 they are not done by him424 to bring about the recognition of the truth,
 and according to this sense the works of the Antichrist can be called
 lying signs,425 since they are made for the purpose of leading humans
 astray.
 62C
 [RA2]Thesolution to the second argument is also clear. Let us speak
 of the subject426 of the form. The form of the beast that is seen is not
 in the air or in the thing itself, as was made clear, but in the sense of
 perception, according to the explanation based on the pronouncement
 of St. Thomas (cited above [Sent. 2.8.1.5.Ra4]).
 [RA3]Asfortheargumentthateverypassive thing is moved by some
 active agent proportionate to it, this is granted, and when it is inferred
 that the shape that is seen cannot be the object that originates or elicits
 the action on the grounds that it is derived from no thing, it is said
 that it is in fact derived from something, because it is derived from a
 perceptible picture kept in the imagination that the demon can bring
 out and expose to the imagination or the faculty of perception, as was
 stated above.427
 [RA 4] As for the last argument, one should say that a demon does
 not change the power of perception or imagination by showing him
self to it, as has been demonstrated, but by altering it, to be sure
 altering it only in terms of movement in location because he cannot
 make an impression of new pictures by himself, as has been said. He
 makes the change by alteration, that is, by moving it in location, and he
 achieves this not by splitting the substance of the organ, which would
 result in a perception of pain, but by setting the spirits and humors in
 motion.428
 Asforthefurther objection that it would follow according to this con
ception that a demon would not be able to show to a person something
 424 I.e., a demon.
 425 A reference to 2 Thes. 2:9–10: “That iniquitous one, whose arrival is in accordance with the
 working of Satan in every virtue and in lying signs and prophesies and in every seduction of
 iniquity.” This passage was part of the medieval elaboration of the notion that the Antichrist
 wouldestablish a kingdombeforethefinalreturnofJesusandhisestablishment of thekingdom
 of heaven.
 426 I.e., the material or substance in which the “form” is manifested.
 427 57B.
 428 Thepassageseemstoindicate somedistinction between immutatio (“change”) and transmutatio
 (“alteration”), but the two terms are merely synonyms.
Part I 62D–63B
 209
 newintermsoftheimagination’svision,oneshouldsaythat“something 62D
 new”canbeunderstoodintwoways.Inonewaysomethingiscompletely
 new in terms both of itself and its origins, and in this respect a demon
 cannot show a human something new in terms of the imagination’s
 vision. For he cannot bring it about that someone born blind imagines
 colors or that someone born deaf imagines sounds. In the other way, the
 term “something new” is meant in terms of the appearance of the whole.
 For instance, if we call it a new thing in the imagination when someone
 imagines golden mountains that he has never seen, nonetheless, because
 hehasseenbothgoldandamountain,hecanimaginebynaturalmotion
 fantastical pictures of a golden mountain. In this way, a demon can offer
 something new to the imagination.
 What view should be held about wolves, who on occasion snatch people
 and children from cradles and eat them; whether this too is made to
 appear by sorceresses through the art of conjuring
 Anincidental question aboutwolves,whoonoccasionsnatch 63A
 people and children from houses and eat them, and who run about with
 great cleverness, so that they cannot be harmed or captured through any
 art or power. One should say that sometimes this has a natural cause,
 but sometimes, when this takes places through sorceresses, the cause is
 the art of conjuring.
 Regarding the first explanation, Albert says in Animals [22.2.67], that
 it can result from five429 causes. Sometimes the cause is an increase in
 famine in the same way that hinds and other beasts sometimes approach
 humans, sometimes it is their savage strength (this in cold climates) and
 also their having cubs. Because none of these explanations is relevant to
 the present issue, we say that these things happen through an illusion on
 the part of demons when God is punishing some nation on account of
 its sins after the manner of Leviticus 16 [actually, 26:22]: “If you do not
 carry out My commands, I will send against you beasts of the field to
 eat you and your herds,”430 and Deuteronomy 32[:24]: “Teeth of beasts
 I will send against them with madness...”431 Thus, as to the question
 of whether they are true wolves or demons in forms that appear this 63B
 429 The source (Nider) actually cites seven reasons: 1) hunger, 2) savage strength, 3) old age, 4)
 experience of eating human flesh, 5) a rabid brain, 6) demons, 7) the judgment of God. In the
 adaptation here, not only are reason 3–5 omitted, but much of the material ascribed originally
 to the judgment of God (omitted as an overt category) is transferred to the demons.
 430 God tells Moses to make this threat against the Jews.
 431 More threats conveyed to the Jews by Moses.
210
 The Hammer of Witches 63B–C
 63C
 way, one says that they are true wolves but are possessed or impelled
 by demons in two different ways. One way is without the working of
 sorcerers. This is what happened to the forty-two children killed by two
 bears who came out of the forest because they had derided the prophet
 Elisha bysaying,“Goup,baldman”andsoon[2Kings2:23].Sotoowith
 the lion that killed the prophet who was not fulfilling God’s command
 (1 Kings 13[:24]),432 and the story about the bishop of Vienne433 who
 began the minor litanies before the feast of the Ascension of the Lord
 because wolves were entering cities and devouring people in public.
 The other way is also an illusion on the part of sorcerers. For instance,
 William (cited above434 [Universe 2.3.13]) tells a story about a certain
 man whothought that he was turned into a wolf at specific times when
 he was lurking in caves. He entered these caves at a specific time and
 while he remained fixed there, he imagined that he became a wolf and
 went around devouring children. Since in reality it was merely a demon
 possessing a wolf that was doing this, he falsely thought while dreaming
 that he himself was going around. He remained deranged in this way
 until he was found lying in the forest hallucinating.
 Thedevildelightsinusingsuchtrickstopromotetheerrorheldbythe
 pagans,whobelievedthatpeopleandoldwomenwereturnedintobeasts.
 Hence, it is discerned that when they cannot be harmed or captured
 through anyartorpower,suchsituations result from the specific permis
sion of God and the work of demons and not from some natural defect.
 For instance, Vincent gives the following story in the Mirror of History
 (Bk. 6 [actually, 5], Ch. 40). “In Gaul before the Incarnation of Christ
 andthePunicWar,awolfsnatchedawatchman’sswordfromitssheath.”
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 10:
 Antoninus, Summa 1.2.6.4
 Aq., On Evil 16.11
 Sent. 2.8.1.5
 Nider, Ant Hill 1.11.7, 8, 9]
 432 A man of God was enjoined by him not to eat or drink along a journey he was taking, but
 the man was persuaded to do so by an old prophet, who mendaciously told him that God had
 changed his mind. After the man of God complied and ate and drank in violation of God’s
 orders, God sent a lion to eat him.
 433 This refers to St. Avitus, who was bishop of this French town in the fifth century.
 434 This reference to an earlier citation is copied from the original source (Nider) and signifies
 nothing here.
Part I 63D–64A
 211
 question eleven: that in various ways midwife
 sorceresses kill the fetuses in the womb and
 cause miscarriages, and when they do not do
 this, they offer the new-borns to demons
 FIFTH, sixth and seventh at once:435 the aforementioned truth
 is proven through four horrific practices that they follow in connec- 63D
 tion with babies in the mother’s womb. Since the demons carry out
 their practices through women and not through men, that infamous
 insatiable murderer436 contrives to adopt women rather than men as his
 partners. These works are of the following kind. Canonists, who treat
 the impediment caused by sorcery more than do theologians, say (cited
 above) that sorcery is used not only to prevent someone from being able
 to carry out the carnal act, as was discussed above,437 but also to prevent
 a woman from conceiving or, if she does conceive, to cause her to have
 a miscarriage. A third way is added along with a fourth in that in a case
 where they do not cause a miscarriage, they eat up the baby or offer him
 to a demon. There is no doubt about the first two ways, since without
 the help ofdemonsahumancanusenaturalmeans,likeplantsandother
 impediments, tocauseawomantobeunabletobegetorconceive,aswas
 discussed above.438 Regarding the other two ways, however, it should be
 asserted that they are caused by sorcerers, without it being necessary to
 adduce the arguments when these things are rendered believable by the
 clearest indications and proofs from experience.
 Regarding the first way, namely that contrary to the inclination of 64A
 human nature and in fact in violation of the condition of all beasts
 (with the exception of the species of wolves), some sorceresses devour
 and consumebabies, it is the Inquisitor of Como439 mentioned above440
 who reported these events to us. It was for this very reason that he was
 summoned by the inhabitants of the county of Bormio to conduct an
 inquisition. For whenacertainmanhadlostachildfromitscrib,hewent
 435 I.e., the fifth, sixth and seventh methods of causing an impediment to procreation; see 45B
 (the “aforementioned truth” is that they do so).
 436 I.e., the Devil.
 437 Q. 8 (52C–55D).
 438 54B.
 439 Laurentius of St. Agata (Lorenzo Soleri Da Sant’Agata). A Dominican friar, he was appointed
 as inquisitor in a broad area in northern Italy in 1483 and held the position until his death
 ca. 1510 (though Como was turned over to a separate inquisitor in 1505). His inquisition in
 Bormio (Wormserbad, a German town in the southern Tyrol and now in modern Italy) is
 alluded to several times and seems to have made a strong impression on Institoris.
 440 He is not mentioned previously, and the reference on 108C seems to describe him as if for the
 f
 irst time.
212
 The Hammer of Witches 64A–C
 in search of it, and when he saw a gathering of women at night time, he
 observed that the baby was being killed and eaten while liquor was being
 consumed. Accordingly, as was mentioned above, in a single year, which
 was in fact last year, the inquisitor consigned forty-one sorceresses to
 the flames, certain others taking flight to the dominion of Sigismund,441
 the Archduke of Austria. This report receives confirmation from certain
 writings of John Nider in his Ant Hill. The memory of him and of his
 writings is certainly fresh,442 and because of them such occurrences are
 not unbelievable, as they seem.
 64B
 64C
 In addition, in these practices midwife sorceresses cause greater losses
 thananyone,aspenitentsorceresseshaveoftenrelatedtousandtoothers,
 saying, “No one harms the Catholic Faith more than do midwives.” In
 instances where they do not kill children, they take the baby out of the
 room as if to do something, and raising them up in the air they offer
 them to the demons.443
 Themethodthat is followed in crimes of this sort will be explained in
 Chapter Seven of Part Two.444 It is necessary to undertake this question
 only after taking the preliminary step of deciding the question about
 divine permission. For it was said at the beginning445 that three things
 necessarily contribute to the result of sorcery: the demon with the sor
ceress on the one hand, and divine permission on the other.
 Next,divine permission shouldbeconsidered,andfourques
tions are asked about it. First, whether it is necessary for this permission
 to contribute to the result of sorcery.446 Second, that it is just for God
 to permit a creature that is capable of sin, as a result of its nature, to
 committheactofsorcery andotherhorrible crimes, the other two forms
 of permission being presupposed.447 Third, that the crimes of sorcerers
 surpass all the evil deeds that God permits to be done.448 Fourth, how
 this material should be preached to the congregation.449
 441 He lived 1427–1496; first duke, then (since 1477) archduke of Austria, he was also count of the
 Tyrol.
 442 He died in 1438. Though his writings have been used extensively in previous sections, this is
 the first time he is mentioned in the text. His name and reputation are cited here as nearly
 contemporary evidence for the cannibalism of modern sorceresses. Presumably this means that
 the author was aware of no other texts on sorcery that referred to this supposed practice.
 443 Cf. the confession quoted in 97B.
 444 Actually Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch. 13 (137A–141D).
 445 20B.
 446 Q. 12 (64C–68C).
 447 Q. 13 (68C–70D).
 448 Q. 14 (with elaboration in Q. 15–Q.17)(71A–81C).
 449 Q. 18 (81D–85C).
Part I 64C–D
 213
 [TT] IN450 the third basic topic of the present Part One,451
 which deals with divine permission, the question is raised whether the
 endorsement of divine permission in connection with these works on
 the part of sorcerers is so Catholic a proposition that the opposite view
 (rejection of such permission) is altogether heretical.452
 [AG 1] It is argued that it is not heretical to claim that God does not
 permit so much power to the Devil in connection with acts of sorcery
 of this sort. For it is a Catholic and not a heretical proposition to reject
 statements that can result in insult to the Creator. Rather, it is a Catholic
 proposition to claim that such power to harm humans is not permitted
 to the Devil. This is proven on the grounds that to claim the opposite
 seems to result in insult to the Creator. For it follows that not everything
 would be subordinate to divine providence, since to the extent that he
 can, every wise maker of provisions wards off defect and evil from his
 charges. Furthermore, since those things that happen through acts of
 sorcery, if they are permitted by God, are not excluded by Him, and if
 they are not excluded by Him,Hewillnotbeawisemakerofprovisions,
 and in that case everything is not subordinate to His providence, which
 is false. Therefore, the idea that God gives His permission is also false. 64D
 [AG 2] Also, “God permits something to be done that He could
 impede if He wanted to or that He is unable to impeded even if He did
 want to.” But neither of these statements can be appropriate for God,
 the first because such a being is considered hostile, the second because
 such a being is considered powerless.
 Next, an incidental question is raised. “This act of sorcery happened
 to Peter, and God was able to impede it but did not. Therefore, God is
 hostile or does not care about everyone. If, on the other hand, He was
 unable to impede it even if He wanted to, then He is not all-powerful.”
 Since it is not appropriate to claim any of these things (that God does
 450 The title to Q. 12 should precede this question, but apparently it was inadvertently omitted
 because the content of the question was described only at the beginning of the previous
 paragraph, which provides the general introduction to the topic of divine permission and goes
 on to describe the content of subsequent questions. The table of contents (3C) indicates that
 the title should have been something like: “Question Twelve pertains to the permission of
 God, which has to co-operate with the demon and the sorceress: whether it is so Catholic a
 proposition to commend divine permission in connection with the deeds of sorceresses, that
 the opposite position, that is, the rejection of the permission of God, is altogether heretical.”
 451 The first two topics were the demon and the sorceress, as stated in 20B.
 452 This andthefollowingquestion give an exampleofhowthedivisionofthetextinto“questions”
 is artificial and unsatisfactory. The refutations of the false initial arguments of Q. 12 appear
 at the end of Q. 13, which lacks its own arguments, while both questions have a “response”
 section. Note also that in the table of contents (but not in the main text) Q. 13 is referred to as
 an “incidental” question (meaning an elaboration of the proceeding one).
214
 The Hammer of Witches 64D–65B
 not care about everyone, and so on), the idea that acts of sorcery happen
 as a result of God’s permission is also inappropriate.
 65A
 65B
 Also,453 whoever is left to his own control and is master of his own
 actions cannot be subordinate to the permission or providence of some
 ruler. Instead, humans are left to their own control by God according
 to the passage, “God established man in the beginning and left him
 in the hand of his own counsel” (Ecclesiasticus 15[:14]). Evil people are
 specifically left in their workings according to the passage, “He left them
 according to the desires of their heart” [Psalm 80:13].454 Therefore, not
 all evils are subordinate to divine permission.
 [AG 3] Also, Augustine says inEnchiridion [17] (as does the Philoso
pher in Metaphysics,Bk. 9 [actually, 12.9]), “It is better not to know
 certain things than to know them,” for instance base things. Everything
 that it is better should be ascribed to God. Therefore, God does not
 bother Himself about these very base works of sorcerers so as to permit
 them or not.
 [AG 4] To the same effect, the Apostle says, “God has no concern
 for oxen” (2 [actually, 1] Corinthians 9[:9]), and similarly with the other
 irrational455 creatures. Hence, whether or not they are affected by sorcery
 is of no concern to God, nor are these alternatives subordinate to His
 permission, which derives from His providence.
 [AG5]Also,thethingsthathappenasaresultofnecessity donotneed
 provident permission, just as they do not need prudence. This is made
 clear by the Philosopher in [Nicomachean] Ethics,Bk.6 [6.5]: “Prudence
 is right reason about contingencies for which planning and choice are
 possible.” Several effects of sorcery happen as a result of necessity, for
 instance, when illnesses or certain other things that we judge to be acts
 of sorcery happen as a result of some cause and of the influence of the
 heavenly bodies. Hence, such occurrences are not always subordinated
 to divine permission.
 [AG 6] Also, if people are affected by sorcery with God’s permis
sion, then the question is raised as to why this happens to one person
 rather than another. If it is said that this happens on account of the
 sins that are more abundant in one person than in another, this seems
 to be false, because in that case greater sinners would be more affected
 by sorcery. The opposite of this is apparent in that such people are less
 453 There is no rebuttal of this argument in the solutions.
 454 English numbering: 81:12
 455 Reason was considered a unique characteristic of humans, so animals could be referred to as
 irrational creations.
Part I 65B–D
 215
 affected by sorcery in the secular world, just as they receive less pun
ishment, in accordance with the passage, “It is well for all who commit
 trespass” [Jeremiah 12:1]. Next, the opposite is proven on the grounds
 that innocent children and other righteous people are more affected by
 sorcery.
 [SC 1] But to the contrary, God permits evil to be done, though He
 doesnotwishitto,forthesakeofperfectingtheuniverse.Dionysiussays,
 “There will be an evil that contributes to everyone’s benefit, that is, to
 the perfection of the universe” (Divine Names,Bk.3 [actually, 4.19]), and
 Augustine says, “The wondrous beauty of the universal totality consists
 of all things good and evil. Inasmuch as when that which is called evil is
 well ordained and set in its place, it more prominently commends the
 good things, so that they are more pleasing and praiseworthy through
 being compared to the evil things” (Enchiridion [10]).
 [SC 2] Likewise, St. Thomas also disapproves of the opinion of those
 people who think that while God does not desire evil things, since 65C
 no creature has a desire for evil in the desiring of its nature or soul or
 intellect, which is the will, whose object is the good, nonetheless God
 wishes evil things to exist or be made. He says this is false because God
 neither wishes for evil things to be done nor wishes for them not to be
 done, but wishes to permit evil to be done, and this is a good thing for
 the sake of the perfection of the universe.
 As for whyit is erroneous to say that God wishes evil things to exist or
 to bedoneforthesakeofthegoodoftheuniverse,hesaysthatsomething
 should be judged good only in terms of that which is its inherent role
 and not an incidental one. For instance, a virtuous man is judged good
 in the creation involving his intellect but not the one involving his soul.
 Furthermore, it is not inherently but merely incidentally that an evil is
 ordained for a good purpose, because the good turns out contrary to
 the intent of those who work the evil. For instance, it was contrary to
 the intent of the tyrants456 that the endurance of the martyrs became
 famous as a result of their persecution.
 [CO] Response. The more beneficial this question is to preach, the
 more difficult it is to understand. That such horrible acts of sorcery as 65D
 thosediscussedabovearenotpermittedbyGodistheprincipalargument
 among those, not just of laymen but also certain philosophers, who are
 ignorant of the reasons for this divine permission. Their ignorance has
 resulted in the sorceresses not being suppressed with due vengeance,
 456 I.e., pagan Roman emperors.
216
 The Hammer of Witches 65D–66B
 and for this reason these philosophers now seem to be devastating all
 of Christendom. In order, then, to satisfy both the learned and the
 unlearnedmanalikeaccordingtothepronouncementofthetheologians,
 a response should be given by way of discussing two difficulties. The
 f
 irst is that the world is subordinate to divine providence in such a
 way that God oversees everything directly, and the second, that as a
 result of the first two instances of permission concerning the fall of
 the angels and of the First Ancestors, it is just for Him to permit the
 universal totality of evils that are done in connection with the evils of
 guilt457 or of penalty or of loss. From this, it will also become clear that
 a persistent lack of faith in these ideas smacks of heresy, since such a
 person implicates himself in the errors of the faithless.
 66A
 66B
 As for the first, it is to be noted that when it is presupposed that
 providenceisappropriateforGodaccordingtothepassage,“You,Father,
 rule all things with providence” (Wisdom 13[:14]), it is also necessary to
 claim that all things are subordinate to His providence in such a way
 that He does make provision for everything directly. In order for this
 to become clear, let us first demonstrate it through the refutation of a
 certain contradictory error.
 In connection with the passage, “The cloud is His hiding place and
 He strolls around the cardinal points of Heaven without thought for
 our affairs” (Job 22[:14]), some men have, according to the teaching of
 St. Thomas (First Part,Q.22 [22.2.Co]), developed a view positing that
 the onlythingssubordinatetodivineprovidenceareincorruptiblethings
 (inasmuch as these are disembodied substances) and the heavenly bodies
 together withthecategoriesoflowerthings,whicharealsoincorruptible.
 Theindividual manifestations of the categories, on the other hand, they
 said, are not subordinate because they are corruptible.458 Hence, they
 said that in this way all lower things that take place in the world are
 subordinate to divine providence only in a universal sense and not in a
 specific or individual one.
 Because it seems inappropriate to others that God should not have a
 greater concern for manthanfortheotheranimals,RabbiMoses[Guide
 for the Perplexed 3.17], wishing to take a middle position, said in agree
ment with the first group, that all corruptible things, like the individual
 457 This term will be used to render culpa, which may be synonymous with peccatum (“sin”),
 but differs in that while peccatum designates “sin” as such, culpa signifies the “guilty” act that
 qualifies as sin. The plural will be rendered as “instances of guilt.”
 458 In effect, God is said to determine the eternal “rules” that govern physical existence but not
 the behavior of the specific individual agents generated by those rules.
Part I 66B–C
 217
 manifestations of things, are not at all subordinated to divine rule, but
 that only the universals and the other things that have been mentioned
 are. He excludes man from that general category of corruptible things,
 doing so because of the dazzling nature of the intellect that man shares
 with the disembodied substances.
 Thus, according to this view, whatever happens to humans in con
nection with acts of sorcery would result from God’s permission, but
 whatever happens to animals and to the fruits of the earth would not.
 Though this view is closer to the truth than the one that denied alto
gether the providence of God concerning the affairs of the world and
 claimed,likeDemocritusandthefollowersofEpicurus,459 thattheworld
 was created by accident, nonetheless it too is not free of much falsehood.
 For it is necessary to say that all things are subordinate to the divine pro
vidence, not merely in the universal sense but also in the particular, so
 that acts of sorcery affecting not merely men but also domestic animals
 and the fruits of the earth result from God’s provident permission.
 This is made clear in the following way. Providence and the ordain- 66C
 ing460 of things extend to a goal to the extent that causality does, in
 the same way that by similar reasoning things subordinate to someone’s
 control are subordinated to his providence to the extent that they are
 subordinate to him. Since the causality of God, Who is the primary
 agent, extends to all beings, not merely in terms of the origins of the
 categories but also in terms of the individual origins, and not merely
 of incorruptible things but also of corruptible ones, therefore just as all
 things have their existence from God, so too is provision made for all
 things by Him, that is, they are ordained for some goal. The Apostle
 treats this topic (Romans 13[:1]): “The things that are from God are
 ordained.” It is as if it said, “Just as all things are from God, so too are
 all things ordained by Him and consequently subordinate to His provi
dence,” since the providence of God is known to be nothing other than
 reason, that is, the cause of the ordering of things towards a goal. There
fore, to the extent that all things take part in being, they are subordinate
 to divine providence.
 459 Democritus (b. ca. 460 bc) and Epicurus (341–270 bc) were advocates of the ancient cos
mological theory known as “atomism,” which among other things posited that the universe
 came into existence accidentally as the result of the random movement of its basic constituent
 elements known as “atoms” (not to be confused with the modern concept of the same name).
 The reference comes from Aquinas, who himself knew of these men and their theories only
 through Aristotle’s references to them.
 460 To some extent, this translation of the Latin ordinatio is unsatisfactory, as the latter literally
 means “set in order” (a sense not self-evident in the English derivative) and the following
 discussion takes advantage of the two meanings.
218
 The Hammer of Witches 66C–67A
 66D
 67A
 Likewise, God has knowledge of all things not only in the universal
 sense (as universal entities) but rather also in the specific sense (as specific
 entities), and since God’s knowledgerelatestocreatedthingsinthesame
 way that the knowledge of an art relates to the things created by that art,
 therefore just as all things created by an art are subordinate to the order
 and providence of the art, so too are all things subordinate to the order
 and providence of God.
 This discussion is not sufficient for it to be understood that it is just
 for Godtopermitevil things, including acts of sorcery, to be done in the
 world, even if we dounderstandtheideathatHeisamakerofprovisions
 Whogovernseverything. For if this is granted, He would be obligated to
 ward off every evil from His charges, since we see it to be the procedure
 among humans that a maker of wise provisions wards off defect and
 evil from his charges to the extent that he can. Accordingly, in order to
 understand why God does not ward off all these evil acts, it should be
 noted that it is one thing to speak of a maker of provisions in a specific
 context and another to speak of one in the universal context. Since God
 is the maker of universal provisions for the entire world and is able to
 derive very many good things from specific evil things (for instance, the
 endurance of the martyrs from the persecution of the tyrants and the
 cleansing of the righteous or the proof of the Faith from the works of
 sorcerers461 as will be explained), therefore God must not impede all evil
 things in order to avoid the result that the universe would lack many
 good things. Hence, Augustine says, “So merciful is Almighty God that
 He would not allow any evil act to exist among His works, if He were
 not so almighty and good that He can even create a benefit from an evil
 act” (Enchiridion [11]).
 We also have an example of this in the actions of natural things.
 Although the ruination and defects that happen in natural beings are
 contrary to the intention of the particular nature of that being, for
 instance, when the ruination of being hanged as a thief befalls someone
 or that of being killed to serve as human food befalls animals, they
 are part of the intention of the universal nature, namely that humans
 should be maintained in their lives and goods, so that in this way the
 good of the universe is also maintained. For in order to preserve the
 varieties of beings, it is necessary that the ruination of one serve as
 the maintenance of the other. For the killing of animals maintains the
 lives of lions.
 461 The example about sorceresses is inserted into an argument borrowed from Aquinas.
Part I 67B–C
 219
 67B
 Regarding divine permission, it is explained that God could not have
 bestowed on a creature the quality of being without sin by nature
 As forthe second462 point (that God justly permits the universal
 totality of evils, whether in connection with instances of guilt or penal
ties, especially now that the world is growing cold and declining towards
 its setting),463 an explanation is given on the basis of two presuppositions
 that must necessarily be taken in advance as given. The first is that God
 cannot bring it about, or rather– to speak in fear of God464–itisnot
 possible for a created nature like man or an angel to have the ability not
 to sin as a result of the status of his nature. The second is that it is just
 for God to permit man to sin or to be tempted. If these propositions
 are granted, then since it is an element of divine providence that every
 single creature should be left in its nature, it is necessary to say that on
 the basis of the foregoing it is impossible for God not to permit acts of
 sorcery from being done through the virtue of demons.
 In the first place, that it was not possible to share with a creature the
 ability not to sin as a result of the condition of its nature is shown 67C
 by the Saintly Doctor in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk. 2,
 Dist. 23,Art.1 [Sent. 2.23.1.1]. If this had been capable of being shared
 with some creature, God certainly would have done so on the grounds
 that all other varieties of goodness and perfection that are suscepti
ble of being shared were shared, at least in general, like the personal
 union of two natures465 in Christ, motherhood and virginity in Mary,
 the union of Grace in wayfarers,466 the union of blessedness in the
 Elect,467 and so on. Since, therefore, we do not read that this was
 shared with any creature, it being shared with neither man nor angel
 according to the passage, “Even among His angels He found perversity”
 [Job 4:18], it is certain that the ability to be without sin as a result of
 nature cannot besharedwithmanatleast(thoughtheyfindthisthrough
 Grace).
 Second, an argument holds to the effect that if this ability were
 susceptible of being shared and were not shared, the universe would
 462 As laid out in 64B.
 463 For this expression, see 2A, 16C.
 464 I.e., to avoid the presumptuousness implicit in saying that God cannot do something.
 465 I.e., divine and human. The exact relationship between the two was a major source of doctrinal
 dispute in late antiquity.
 466 I.e., the union with God that is granted by grace to those still on earth, who are metaphorically
 traveling (as “wayfarers”) to join the homeland (patria)ofGod.
 467 I.e., those preordained for salvation.
220
 The Hammer of Witches 67C–68A
 67D
 68A
 not be perfect, its perfection consisting of the fact that all forms of
 goodness that are susceptible of being shared with creatures have in
 general been shared. It is also an invalid argument that since God is
 supremely powerful and in other regards created humans and angels
 after His own likeness, He could in fact have bestowed on a creature
 the ability not to sin as a result of the condition of its nature, or could
 have brought it about that the state of Grace that causes confirmation
 in good would be a part of the essential nature of an angel or man,
 so that in this way he might have confirmation in good according to
 his natural origin and natural condition, so that he would be able not
 to sin.
 The first468 argument is not conclusive, because while God is
 supremely powerful, just as He is supremely good, nonetheless He can
not bestow this ability, as a result not of His power being imperfect
 but of the creature being imperfect. This imperfection is considered
 f
 irst on the grounds that a man or angel cannot and could not receive
 this ability. The explanation is that since he is a creation, his being
 derives from the creator, in the same way that what is caused is derived
 from the cause of its being, and since “to create” means “to make from
 nothing,” if something is left to its own devices, it is defective and is
 preserved for as long as it receives the influence of its cause. An illus
tration, if you wish, is provided by the candle, which sheds light for as
 long as it has wax. If this argument is granted, it is known that “God
 created man and left him in the hand of his own counsel” (Ecclesias
ticus 17 [actually, 15:14]), and so too the angel since the beginning of
 creation.
 This was brought about by free will. Just as it is characteristic of free
 will to act or refrain from acting, it is characteristic of it to withdraw and
 not withdraw from its cause, and because the ability to sin is the ability
 to withdraw from God as a result of the freedom of choice, therefore
 neither man nor angel could receive the ability not to sin, nor could the
 possession of freedom of choice and the ability not to sin be shared with
 him by God at the same time.
 Another imperfection that results in the impossibility of sharing this
 ability with man or angel is that it implies a contradiction. Because these
 things are inherently impossible, we say that God could not do them,
 and we should instead say that creatures cannot receive such things as
 being alive and dead at one and the same time. The implication is that
 468 In the preceding paragraph.
Part I 68A–C
 221
 someone would have free will allowing him to adhere or not to adhere
 to his cause and the ability not to sin. For if he is able not to sin, he is not
 able not to adhere to his cause, since it is a sin to adhere to changeable
 things after spurning the unchangeable good, and to spurn or not to
 spurn derives from freedom of will.
 The second469 argument is also invalid, because if the Grace of Con- 68B
 f
 irmation became part of a creature’s nature, so that from its essential
 origins it had the ability not to sin, then in that case it would not have
 the ability not to be deficient and not to sin as the result of some inci
dental gift and grace, but it would have this ability by nature, and in
 that case it would be God, which is absurd. This solution is mentioned
 by St. Thomas(above citation in the solution of the last argument [Sent.
 2.23.1.Ra5]), when he says that whenever some incidental phenomenon
 that is present only as the result of the influence of a higher nature
 occurs in some nature, the lower nature cannot possess that incidental
 phenomenonunlessitismadetopossessthehighernature.Forinstance,
 if the air is lit up by fire in action, it cannot be the case that the air is
 by its own nature shiny in the action unless it becomes fire. I say,470
 therefore, that since Confirmation is present within a rational creature
 only throughGrace,whichisacertainspiritual light and a likeness of the
 enlightenment created within, it cannot be the case that some creature
 has Confirmation or Grace as a result of its nature unless it is made to
 possess the higher nature by being, let us say, of the same nature, which
 is altogether impossible.
 Let us conclude that the ability not to sin occurs by nature in God 68C
 alone on the grounds that just as He cannot be deficient as the result
 of His being, since He gives being to all things, He likewise cannot not
 be deficient in the rectitude of His goodness, since this occurs in Him
 because of the condition of His nature. All others who have the ability
 not to sin have this bestowed upon them as a result of the fact that they
 are confirmed in good by Grace, which results in their being made the
 sons of Godandintheirpartaking, in a certain way, of the divine nature.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 12:
 Aq., Sent. 2.23.1.1
 Summa 1.19.9; 1.22.1, 2, 3]
 469 I.e., the second one at the end of 67C.
 470 This first person statement is actually in the source (Aquinas).
The Hammer of Witches 68D–69A
 222
 an explanation is given regarding the two forms
 of divine permission justly granted by god, as
 a result of which the works of sorcerers
 are justly permitted, namely the devil’s sinning
 as the originator of every evil and also the
 fall of the first ancestors (question thirteen
 of part one)
 68D
 69A
 THEsecond471 question (and at the same time proposition) is
 that it was just for God to permit certain angelic creations, whom He
 could not have made without their being able to sin, to sin in fact and
 to save certain creations that were created in a similar way with Grace
 (without any previous temptation), and that it was just for Him to
 permit man both to be tempted and to sin. All these ideas are explained
 as follows.
 It is an element of divine providence that every single thing should
 be left in its own nature and not at all impeded in its natural works,
 because, as Dionysius says, “Providence promotes not the ruination of
 nature but its salvation” (Divine Names, Ch. 4 [4.33]). If this is granted,
 then since it is obvious that, in the same way that the good of the race
 is more divine than the good of one person ([Nicomachean] Ethics,Bk.
 1 [1.1]), the good of the universe surpasses the individual good of each
 nature created in the individual sense, it is also necessary to realize that if
 sin were altogether impeded, many levels of perfection would be thereby
 removed, since the nature that could sin and not sin would be removed.
 If this is said, man would nonetheless have been able to, as a result of
 the condition of his nature, as was discussed before.472
 Response.473 If no sin had followed in action but immediate Confir
mation had instead, then it would always be unclear what was owed to
 Grace in connection with good deeds towards God and what ability the
 power to sin had had, andmanyotherthings whoseremoval wouldcer
tainly cause a great loss to the world. It was also fitting that he474 should
 sin with no one giving a suggestion from outside but should instead
 471 As laid out in 64B. This question is defective in that it has no arguments of its own, and while
 it does have a “response” section, the solutions at the end answer the arguments laid out at the
 start of Q. 12 (see n. 452).
 472 67B–68C.
 473 See n. 471.
 474 Given that the preceding paragraph discussed man, it is surprising that the topic should shift
 without notice to the fall of Lucifer. Perhaps this passage, which is mostly a patchwork of
 excerpts from Aquinas, was taken from some intermediary source and the author inadvertently
 omitted to add a transitional passage.
Part I 69A–C
 223
 take up the opportunity to sin by himself, which he in fact did when he
 wished to be God’s equal. This should be understood not in a straight
forward sense or in a direct or indirect one, but merely in relation to
 something. This is explained by authority: “I will climb to Heaven and
 be similar to the All-Highest” (Isaiah 14[:14]). The sense is not straight
forward and direct, because in that case he would have had a fettered
 and erroneous intellect in desiring something that was impossible for
 him. For he recognized that he was a creature created by God and that
 accordingly it was impossible for him to become God’s equal. Nor is the
 sense indirect, because just as the entire good of an angel and creature
 consists of being subordinate to God in the same way that the entire
 brilliance of the air consists of being subordinate to the rays of the sun,
 the angel could not have desired this, because such a desire would have
 been contrary to the good of his nature. Instead, he sought equality with
 God not absolutely but in relation to something. The reason for this is
 as follows. God has two qualities through His nature, blessedness and
 goodness, and since it is from Him that every creature’s blessedness and 69B
 goodness is transferred, the angel, seeing the dignity of the nature by
 which God stood above all creatures, wished and desired that all lower
 things should derive blessedness and goodness from him. He wished to
 do this through his own natural possessions, so that he would first have
 those qualities by nature and then all creatures would receive them from
 the nobility of his nature. Because he desired these things from God and
 wished to be under God so long as he had them, he did not in fact wish
 to be made God’s equal in terms of the method of having them, but
 merely in relation to something.
 Note in addition that because he attempted to bring his desire to
 action, he immediately revealed his desire to the others, and because the
 other angels immediately had a vision of the desire and a perverse unity
 in his desire, the sin of the first angel surpassed and preceded that of the
 others in the amount ofguilt and in causality, though not in duration.475
 Theresult was that “The dragon, falling from Heaven, dragged the third
 part of the stars” (Apocalypse 12[:4]).476 Leviathan is contained in the
 image, since he is king over all the sons of arrogance, and according
 to the Philosopher (Metaphysics,Bk. 5), a king is called the origin, to
 the extent that through his will and command he sets his subjects in 69C
 475 Satan was conceived of as the first angel to fall from grace and heaven, the demons being the
 other angels who followed him in this fall.
 476 This image played an important role in the construction of the medieval conception of the
 devil from various biblical passages.
224
 The Hammer of Witches 69C–D
 motion. Therefore, his own sin gave the others the opportunity to sin,
 so that while not having been tempted by any one outside himself, he
 tempted others from the outside.
 As for the statement477 that the working was instantaneous in con
nection with all of them,478 this is illustrated with things perceptible to
 the senses. For the illumination of the air, the seeing of the color and
 the recognition of the object that is seen take place at once.
 I have set down these matters at length in order that, when some
one considers such astonishing divine permission regarding the most
 noble creatures on account of just one sin (ambition), how will he not
 admit that under certain circumstances specific instances of permission
 regarding the works of sorcerers are granted because of greater sins?
 For the sins of sorcerers surpass those of the angel and First Ances
tors in various circumstances, as will now be explained in a second479
 question.
 69D
 The fact that it was just for the providence of God to permit the first
 man to be tempted and to sin can be sufficiently understood from the
 statements already made about the sinful angels. Since man and angel
 were created and left in a state of free will for the same purpose, namely
 that of not receiving the reward of blessedness without merit, then,
 just as the angel was not preserved from his fall so that for the beauty
 of the universe the power to sin should be made manifest from the one
 and the power of the Grace of Confirmation from the other, this had to
 be the case with man’s being preserved. Hence, St. Thomas says, “That
 from which God appears praiseworthy should not at all be impeded,
 and God appears praiseworthy even in connection with sins, since He
 forgives throughmercyandpunishesthroughjustice.Forthisreason,He
 was obliged not to impede sin” (Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2,
 Dist. 23,Art.2 [Sent. 2.23.1.2.SC1]).
 Let us return, only briefly and in recapitulation, to the topic at hand.
 Let us say that by God’s just providence man is granted permission in
 connection with these matters for many reasons. The first is to demon
strate the power of God,Whoaloneisimmutable,whileeverycreatureis
 changeable. The second reason is to demonstrate God’s wisdom, which
 can derive good from evil. This could not have happened if God hadnot
 477 Although it is hard to tell here, this paragraph refers to the “vision of the desire and perverse
 unity in this desire” in 69B. Both passages derive from Aquinas’s discussion of how the fallen
 Lucifer conveyed his purposes to other angels and thereby caused them to fall from grace and
 heaven too (and become demons).
 478 I.e., angels persuaded to fall from grace by Lucifer.
 479 I.e., the subsequent Q. 14 (71A).
Part I 69D–70B
 225
 permitted a creature to sin. The third is to make manifest God’s mercy,
 in which through His own death Christ freed man, who was corrupted.
 The fourth is to demonstrate the justice of God, which gives not only
 the good their rewards but the evil their punishments. The fifth is that 70A
 man should be of a condition no worse than are the other creatures, all
 of which God administers in such a way that He allows them to act by
 their own impulses. For this reason, He also had to leave man to his own
 control. The sixth is human praise. For it is the praise of a righteous man
 that hewasabletotransgressbutdidnot.Theseventhisthebeautyofthe
 universe, because just as evil is found in three forms (guilt, penalty and
 loss), good is conversely made beautiful in three forms (respectability,
 pleasurability, and utility). For respectability is beautified by means of
 guilt, pleasurability by means of penalty and the highest utility by means
 of loss.480
 Through these statements the response to the arguments becomes
 obvious.
 Solutions to the arguments481
 [RA 1] As for the first, in which it is said to be heretical to claim
 that the power to harm humans is granted to the Devil, the opposite,
 instead, is clear. For it is heretical to claim that God dismisses a sin
 without vengeance, just as it is heretical to claim that God does not
 permit man to sin in accordance with free will. Such vengeance takes 70B
 place through the powertoharmhumansforthesakeofthepunishment
 of the evil and for the beauty of the universe, according to Augustine’s
 statement in the Book of Soliloquies, “You have commanded, o Lord.”482
 The result of this is that the ugliness consisting of guilt never occurs
 without the beauty consisting of punishment. Finally, the proof of the
 argument with the example of the maker of wise provisions, who wards
 off defect and evil to the extent that he can, is not valid, because it is
 one thing to speak of someone who has a specific concern and another
 to speak of a maker of universal provisions. For the first one cannot
 derive good from evil in the way that the universal overseer does, as was
 explained in the preceding discussion.
 [RA 2] As for the second. It is clear that God’s power on the one
 hand and His goodness and justice on the other are revealed by His
 permitting evils, and for this reason when it is said that either God can
 480 I.e., they become beautiful through contrast with their opposites.
 481 I.e., those of Q. 12 (64C–65B).
 482 Ultimate source unknown.
226
 The Hammer of Witches 70B–D
 impede evils or He cannot, it is said that He can impede them but ought
 not to, for the reasons cited before. The insistence that He, therefore,
 wishes evil things to happen because He can impede them and does
 not wish to is also invalid, because, as was discussed in the arguments
 for the truth,483 God cannot wish evil things to happen, nor does He
 wish an evil thing to happen or wish it not to happen, but He wishes
 to permit an evil thing to happen, for the sake of making the universe
 perfect.
 70C
 70D
 [RA3]Asforthethird.AugustineandthePhilosopherarespeaking of
 humanlearning,for which itisbetter notto learn of evil and base things
 for two reasons. First, we are sometimes impeded by these things from
 considering evil things, and this happens because we cannot understand
 manythingsatonce.Also,thinkingaboutevilthingssometimessubverts
 the will inthedirectionofanevilact.Thesereflectionsarenotrelevantto
 God, however, since He understands all the works of men and sorcerers
 without any defect.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth. The Apostle removed the concern of God
 from oxeninorder to showthat because a reasoning creature has control
 over his own actions through free will, as has been stated, so that some
thing should be imputed to him as a guilt or merit and that a penalty
 or a reward should be given to him accordingly, God exercises a specific
 providence about this. According to these considerations, unreasoning
 things are not covered by providence. It would be heretical to wish
 to claim that according to this authority individual unreasoning crea
tures are not an element of divine providence, because this would be to
 claim that not all things are subordinate to divine providence, contrary
 to the endorsement of Holy Scripture regarding divine wisdom, which
 “Strongly touches upon all things from beginning to end and arranges
 them harmoniously” [Wisdom 8:1]. This would be the error of Rabbi
 Moses, as was explained in the arguments for the truth.484
 [RA 5] As for the fifth. Man is not the originator of nature but uses
 the natural workings of art and virtue for his own use, and human
 providence does not extend to obligatory phenomena, like the rising
 of the sun tomorrow, that result from nature, though God’s providence
 does extend to them because He is the moving force of nature. Hence,
 even if natural defects result from the course of natural events, they
 would still be subordinate to divine providence. For this reason, both
 483 SC 2 (65C).
 484 In the “response” section (66B).
Part I 70D–71B
 227
 Democritusandtheothernaturalphilosopherserredwhentheyascribed
 solely to material necessity whatever happened to lower objects.
 [RA 6] As for the last. Although every penalty is inflicted by God
 because of sins, nonetheless acts of sorcery are not always inflicted on
 the greater sinners, either because it is not the Devil’s wish to afflict and
 tempt those whom he sees he possesses with just title, or in order that
 they should not hasten to God in accordance with the passage, “Their
 illnesses were multiplied, and then they hastened...” [Ps. 15:4].
 That it is because of sins that every penalty is inflicted by God is clear
 from the foregoing statements. For according to Jerome whatever we 71A
 suffer we deserve because of our sins.485
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 13:
 Aq., Sent. 2.5.1.2; 2.6.1.2; 2.23.1.2; 2.23.1.1, 2
 Summa 1.22.2, 3]
 it is explained that the sins of the sorcerers are
 more serious than those of the evil angels and
 of the first ancestors, and consequently many
 innocent people are now suffering losses and
 being affected by sorcery because of the sins of
 sorcerers, just as the innocent are punished as a
 result of the instances of guilt on the part of
 their ancestors (question fourteen) (all this
 material can be preached)
 [TT] REGARDING the heinousness of the crimes, it is asked
 whether the criminal deeds of the sorcerers surpass all the evil things
 that God permits and has permitted to happen from the beginning of
 the world until the present day, both in terms of instances of guilt and
 penalties and losses.
 [AG 1] It seems that this is not so, particularly in terms of guilt. A sin
 committed by someone that he could easily have avoided surpasses the
 sin committed by someone else that he could not have so easily avoided.
 This is made clear by Augustine [City of God 14.15]: “The iniquity 71B
 in sinning is great when there is such ease in not sinning.” Adam and
 manywhosinnedinastate of perfection (Grace) could have more easily
 485 Ultimate source unknown.
228
 The Hammer of Witches 71B–D
 avoided their sins through the presence of Grace (especially in the case
 of Adam, who had been created in Grace) than could many sorcerers,
 who did not receive gifts of this kind. Therefore, their sins surpass all
 the crimes of the sorcerers.486
 [AG2]Also, interms of penalty, a greater penalty is owed for a greater
 instance of guilt, and the sin of Adam was punished most severely, in
 that, as is clear, the penalty, along with the guilt, is shown to harm all his
 descendants in reference to the transference of original sin. Therefore,
 his sin is more serious than all other sins.
 71C
 71D
 [AG 3] Also, in terms of loss. According to Augustine, “This is some
thing evil because it removes a good thing” (City of God [14:15]). There
fore, when more good is lost, the guilt that precedes is greater. The sin
 of the First Ancestor inflicted a greater loss in aspects of both nature and
 Grace, when it deprived us of innocence and immortality, which was
 inflicted by no sin of his descendants. Therefore, and so on.
 [SC 2] But to the contrary. That which encompasses more elements
 of evil is more evil, and the sins of sorceresses are of this kind. For with
 God’s permission they can cause all evils in connection with the good
 things of nature and fortune, as can be concluded from the bull487 of
 the Pope.
 [SC 2] Also, Adam sinned merely by doing what is evil in only one
 way, being prohibited but not evil in its own right, but the sorcerers
 and other sinners sin by doing what is evil in both ways, being both evil
 in its own right and prohibited (for instance murder and many other
 forbidden acts), and as a result their sins are more serious than other
 sins.
 [SC3]Also,asinthatderives from aspecific evil intent is more serious
 than a sin that is caused by ignorance, and as a result of much evil intent
 the sorceresses despise the Faith and theSacramentsoftheFaith,asmany
 have confessed.
 [CO] Response. It can be shown in three ways that in terms of what
 is mentioned in the title of the question, the evils that are committed by
 present-day sorceresses surpass all the other evil things that God has ever
 allowed to happen. (This is the case in terms of the sins that happen
 in connection with perversity of character, though the case is otherwise
 with sins that are the opposite of the other theological virtues.) The first
 way is to compare their works in a general sense without distinctions to
 any crimes in the world, the second is to compare them specifically to
 486 For the location of the rebuttals of these arguments, see n. 508.
 487 I.e., Summis Desiderantes.
Part I 71D–72B
 229
 the manifestations of superstition arising from any agreement entered
 into with demons, and the third is to compare them to the sins of the
 evil angels and of the First Ancestors.488
 The first is as follows. Evil takes three forms (guilt, penalty and loss)
 since there are three kinds of goodtowhichtheystandinopposition(the
 respectable standing in opposition to guilt, the pleasurable to penalty,
 and the useful to loss), and hence it is apparent that the guilt of sorcer
esses surpasses all other sins, as follows. According to the teaching of St.
 Thomas (Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 22 Art. 2 [Sent.
 2.22.2.2Co.]), in connection with a sin it is possible to take into consid
eration many things from which the seriousness or triviality of the sin
 can be deduced, and this is why it does happen that a single sin is more 72A
 serious in terms of one of these considerations but is found to be more
 trivial in terms of another. For instance, we can say that in fornicating,
 a young man is sinful but an old man is crazy. In any case, those sins are
 more serious that have not only more and more powerful circumstances
 but seriousness as sin in terms of the essential variety and extent of the
 sin. In this way we can say that the sin of Adam is more serious than
 all others in terms of certain circumstances, in that he fell after being
 assailed by a lesser temptation (being tempted only from outside) and
 also could have resisted more easily because of the original righteousness
 in which he had been created. But, while many sins followed that are
 more severe in terms of the variety and extent of the sin and in terms
 of other circumstances that aggravate a sin, among these later sins the
 ones that surpass all others are those of sorcerers. This conclusion can
 be reached even more clearly from two considerations.
 A particular sin is said to be greater than another in causality, like
 the sin of Lucifer, or in general applicability, like that of Adam, or in 72B
 vileness, like that of Judas, or in the difficulty of gaining forgiveness, like
 a sin against the Holy Spirit, or in perilousness, like the sin of ignorance,
 or in the impossibility of removing it, like the sin of greed, or in the
 proclivity to it, like the sin of the flesh, or in the offence against God’s
 majesty, like the sin of idolatry and lack of faith, or in the difficulty
 488 This conception does not express very well the substance of what follows. The first (general)
 comparison presumably refers to the present Q. 14 (note the word “first” at the start of the
 next paragraph). The second comparison (with the varieties of superstition) signifies Q. 16
 (77D–81C). The “third” comparison consists of disparate sections of Q. 17: though the title
 of that question (80A) refers only to a comparison with the sins of demons (and such is the
 subject of the body of it), the solutions at the end of the question (81A–C) actually rebut the
 arguments of the beginning of Q. 14 (71A–B), which relate to the comparison of sorceresses’
 sins with Adam’s; note that the comparison with the sins of the first ancestors is mentioned in
 the heading of the question (71A). Q. 15 is apparently ignored in this scheme.
230
 The Hammer of Witches 72B–C
 72C
 of vanquishing it, like arrogance, or in mental blindness, like anger.
 Accordingly, apart from the sin of Lucifer the works of sorcerers surpass
 all other sins. Thesorcerersaresurpassinginvilenesswhentheyrenounce
 the Cross, in proclivity when they practice filthy acts of the flesh with
 demons, and in mental blindness when in a spirit of completely evil
 intent they run amok for the purpose of committing every sort of injury
 against both the souls and bodies of men and domestic animals, as has
 been made clear by the foregoing statements. The name also shows
 this according to Isidore in that they are called evildoers [“malefici”]
 because of the enormity of their crimes, and so on, as was explained
 above.489
 It can also490 be concluded from the following. According to Augus
tine’s statement [Free Will 1.11], “It is a sin to spurn the unchangeable
 good and to cling to changeable things,” there are two elements in sin:
 turning away from it and turning towards it.491 Since this turning away
 from God relates to form in the same way that the turning towards
 relates to matter, the more a human separates himself from God, the
 more serious a given sin is. Hence, because man is made most distant
 from God through lack of faith, the evil-doing of sorcery with its lack
 of faith492 is even greater than all other sins. This is explained by the
 designation “heresy,” which is also “apostasy” from the faith, and at the
 same time by the fact that the entire life of these women is a sin.
 Regarding the first493 consideration. The sin of lack of faith consists of
 struggling against the Faith, andthiscanbedoneintwoways,depending
 on whether the struggle against the Faith is conducted before or after
 the Faith has been accepted. The first variety is the lack of faith of the
 pagans (gentiles).494 In turn, the second occurs in two ways, depending
 on whether the struggle against the Christian Faith is conducted when
 489 15C.
 490 I.e., this is the second consideration mentioned in 72A.
 491 Aquinas conceived of sin as a “turning away from God and a turning towards some good that
 has been created” (Summa, 3.88.1.Co.). Therefore, since the absolute and eternal forms dwell
 with God and the secondary good that is being preferred to God consists of corruptible matter
 that is the manifestation of some form, the “turning away” can be said to relate to the forms,
 while the “turning towards” concerns matter (this conception is adapted from Aq., Summa
 1/2.6.Co.).
 492 Maleficium infidelitatis is an untranslatable word play in Latin. In terms of the argument, it
 should mean “the evil act that is lack of faith,” but the words can also be taken to mean “the
 sorcery of lack of faith.”
 493 I.e., the one set out in 72B.
 494 Thetermssignifies “non-Jews,” and while in a context involving Christians it has developed the
 specialized meaning of Christians in contradistinction to Jews (this is normal sense in modern
 English), in the context of the Old Testament it refers to the Jews’ pagan, i.e., polytheistic,
 neighbors.
Part I 72C–73B
 231
 the Faith has been accepted in outline or as the manifestation of the
 truth. The first manner is the lack of faith of the Jews, and the second 72D
 manner is that of heretics.
 Hence, it is clear that the Heresy of Sorceresses is the most serious
 among the three varieties of lack of faith, and this is proven by reason
 and authority. 2 Peter 2[:21] says, “It would have been better for them
 not to have learned the path of truth than to turn back after learning
 it.” It is proven by reason in that in their lack of faith the heretics, who
 profess to have faith in the Gospel and yet struggle against it and ruin
 it, sin more severely than do the Jews and pagans, just as the man who
 does not carry out what he has promised sins more seriously than the
 one who does not carry out what he has never promised. Again, the
 Jews sin more severely than the pagans, because after having accepted
 an outline of the Christian Faith in the Old Testament, they ruin it
 through misinterpretation, which the pagans do not do. Accordingly,
 their faithlessness is in fact more severe than that of the non-Jews, who
 never accepted the Faith in the Gospel.
 Regarding the second,495 which is also called “apostasy,” Thomas says
 (Second of Second,Q. 12 [2.2.12.1.Co.]) that apostasy entails a certain
 withdrawal from God and the religious obligation that is brought about
 by the various ways in which man is joined to God, that is, by faith or
 by subordinating his will to obedience or by religious vows and clerical
 status. In accordance with this, Raymund [Summa, 1.5.2] and Hostiensis
 [Summa,5.9.2]alsosaythatapostasyistherashwithdrawalfromthestate
 of Faith or of obedienceorofreligious vows, and since the removalofthe
 f
 irst element entails the removal of a later one but not vice versa, the first
 kind of apostasy surpasses the other two, that is, apostasy from the Faith
 precedes apostasy from religious vows or from clerical orders (about this
 kind of apostasy, see Dist. 48 [actually, 47], Ch. 9 “Quantumlibet” and
 16,Q.1 “Legi non debet”). Nonetheless, according to Raymund, even if
 one were to wander off to distant places for a long time, he is judged an
 apostate (runaway) only after he lives in such a way as to show that he
 has set aside the intention of returning (Pandect “On Warfare,” [Code
 73A
 of Justinian 12.35] Law “Desertorem”).496 This would happen if he took
 a wife or the like. In the same way we consider it to be the apostasy of 73B
 obedience when someone of his own accord despises the instructions of
 the church and prelates (regarding this apostasy, see 3,Q.4,“Alieni”).
 495 I.e., the second form of lack of faith, which consists of rejecting it after it has been accepted,
 as laid out in 72C.
 496 There is no such law.
232
 The Hammer of Witches 73B–C
 Whoever is rendered of ill repute is debarred from giving testimony and
 ought to be excommunicated (11,Q.3,“Si autem”). Hence, the kind of
 apostasy about which we are speaking, that of sorceresses, is called the
 apostasy of breaking the Faith.
 73C
 It is also all the more serious in that it is implemented through an
 explicit agreement with the Enemy497 of the Faith, reason and salva
tion. This is what the sorceresses have to do and what the infamous
 Enemy demands, either in whole or in part. We inquisitors have found
 some women who denied all the Articles of the Faith, but others who
 denied only a number of specific Articles, but they would always have to
 renounce the true and sacramental Confession. Hence, even the break
ing of the Faith on the part of Julian the Apostate498 seems not to
 have been so great, though in other regards he had committed greater
 crimes against the Church (on this kind of apostasy also see 2 Q. 7,
 “Non potest”).
 If someone raises the incidental question, “What if they retained the
 Faith in mindandheart”–whichGodaloneandnoangeliccreaturecan
 examine, as was explained above– “but nonetheless rendered reverence
 and obedience to the Devil through their external acts?” it seems that
 the following should be said. The apostasy of breaking the Faith can
 happen in two ways. One is through the external acts of faithlessness
 without an explicit agreement entered into with demons, for instance,
 when people assume the Mohammedan way of life in the lands of the
 faithless or do so with an explicit agreement in Christian territory, and
 so on. If the former retain the Faith in the mind but renounce it by
 external act, they commit a mortal sin, though they are not apostates
 or heretics. This is how Solomon showed reverence to the gods of his
 wives.499 No one is excused if he did this from fear, because, according
 to Augustine, it is more holy (some500 have “better”) to die of hunger
 than to feed on sacrifices to idols (32,Q.4 “Sacius”). As for sorceresses,
 however muchtheymayretain the Faith in their heart while renouncing
 it by their mouth, they are nonetheless judged apostates on the grounds
 that they have made a treaty with death and an agreement with Hell.501
 497 I.e., the Devil.
 498 Last pagan Roman Emperor. Born a Christian, he became attracted to paganism during his
 isolated childhood and openly declared his rejection of Christianity after being raised to the
 Imperial purple in 360.
 499 In order to please his numerous non-Jewish wives, Solomon honored their pagan gods (1 Kings
 11:1–13).
 500 I.e., manuscript copies of the text.
 501 See n. 5.
Part I 73D–74A
 233
 Hence, in speaking of the similar acts of magicians and of those who 73D
 in any way seek assistance from demons, St. Thomas says, “There is
 apostasy from the Faith in all of them because of an agreement entered
 into with a demon, either by word only, if an invocation is involved, or
 by some deed, even if sacrifices do not play a role. For a man cannot
 serve two masters [Matt. 6:24].” (Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.
 2, Dist. 7, last art. [Sent. 2.7.3.2.Co.]). To the same effect, Albert [Sent.
 2.7.12.Co.] gives the following response on Dist. 8 [should be 7] (cited
 above), where it is asked whether paying attention to magicians and
 astrologers is a sin and apostasy from the Faith, “In such people there
 is always apostasy of word or work. If invocations are made, then an
 open pact is entered into with the demons, and in that case there is clear
 apostasy by words. If, on the other hand, it is done merely through a
 simple work, then it is apostasy by work. Since there is always an insult
 to the Faith in the case of all such people in that they expect from the
 demon what they should expect from God, it is always judged to be
 apostasy.” See how clearly they describe the two kinds of apostasy! They 74A
 suggest a third kind, apostasy by heart, but even in the absence of this
 sorceresses are judged to be apostates by words and by works. Therefore,
 they ought to be subject to the penalties for both heretics and apostates,
 as will be explained.502
 Thereis also in themathird503 kindofheinouscrimethatsurpasses all
 other heresies. If, according to Augustine, every wayoflifeofthefaithless
 is sin ([Decretum, Cause] 28,Q. 1 §Two and there is the gloss on the
 passage, “Everything that does not derive from the Faith is sin” (Romans
 14[:23]),504 what must one judge about their entire way of life, that is,
 about all the other works of sorceresses that are not, however, performed
 to please the demons, like fasting, going frequently to church, taking
 communion and so on?505 In all of these acts they commit a mortal sin,
 which is explained as follows.
 The taint caused by this sin is so great that although it does not
 altogether cut out the possibility of redemption, since sin does not ruin
 all the goodinnatureandthenaturallightremainsinthem,nonetheless,
 unless they are absolved by God, the homage they have rendered506
 502 74C–75B.
 503 As laid out in 71D.
 504 Though Augustine is quoted in the section of the Decretum cited, the words attributed to him
 here in fact derive from the Ordinary Gloss on Romans 14:23.
 505 The point is that those accused or suspected of sorcery were sometimes people who were to all
 appearances pious. It was therefore necessary to explain away this inconvenient circumstance
 if such people were to be condemned. Cf. 110C.
 506 I.e., to a demon.
74B
 234
 The Hammer of Witches 74B–C
 means that all their works, even those belonging to the category of
 good ones, belong instead to that of bad ones, something that is not
 seen in the case of other faithless people. Thomas (Second of Second,
 Q. 10, [2.2.10.4]: “Whether every action of a faithless person is a sin”)
 says that while the works of the faithless that belong to the category
 of good works, like fasts, the giving of alms and the like, do not bring
 them merit because of their lack of faith, which is the most severe of
 sins, nonetheless because sin does not ruin the entire good of nature and
 the natural light remains within them, not every act of theirs is a mortal
 sin. Instead, in their case, every act is a mortal sin if it derives from lack
 of faith or pertains to it, even if the act belongs to the category of good
 ones (for instance, a Saracen fasting to keep the law of Mohammed that
 enjoins fasting or a Jew celebrating his holidays, and the like). This is
 howtounderstood the passage of Augustine,507 “Every way of life of the
 faithless is sin” (cited above).508
 74C
 That sorceresses deserve the most serious | penalties compared to all the
 criminals in the world 509
 Next, that the crimesofthesepeoplesurpassallthesinsofothers
 in terms of deserving penalty is explained, first, in regard to the penalty
 imposed onheretics, and, second, in regard to the penalty to be inflicted
 on apostates.
 Heretics are punished in four ways according to Raymund [Summa
 1.5.2]: excommunication, dismissal from office, confiscation of property,
 and physical death.510 Regarding all these penalties, the reader will find
 information in “Sentence of Excommunication,” “Noverit” for the first,
 in“Quicontrapacem”(24,Q.1)forthesecond,in“Quojure”(Dist.8,Ch.
 1) and “Quicumque” and “Si de rebus”(23,Q.7) for the third, and in the
 sametitle (“Heretics”) the first and second Chapters “Excommunicamus”
 for the fourth.
 Very serious penalties are also incurred by those who believe, harbor,
 support and defend them. In addition to the penalty of excommuni
cation that is imposed on them, heretics, along with their supporters,
 507 Ultimate source unknown, but the text is cited by Prosper of Aquitaine, Pronouncements
 Excerpted from Augustine 106.
 508 Since this marks the end of Q. 14 proper (the following section is noted in the main table of
 contents [3C] asbeingaseparatediscussion), one wouldexpecttherebuttals totheintroduction
 to appear here. Instead, they appear only at the end (81A–C) of Q. 17, which is explanatory of
 the present question.
 509 This is noted in the main table of contents (3D) as an explanatory topic for preaching.
 510 As opposed to the death of the soul imposed by God through damnation.
Part I 74D–75B
 235
 defenders and harborers, and the children of all of these down to the 74D
 second generation in the paternal line and down to the first level in
 the maternal line, are admitted to no ecclesiastical benefice or office (in
 the same title, Chapter “Quicumque” and Chapter “Statutum”inLiber
 Sextus). In addition, as a third penalty if heretics have Catholic children,
 the latter are deprived of inheriting from their father as a public indica
tion of the repugnance felt for the crime. As a fourth penalty, if, after the
 error has been detected, he does not immediately wish to return to the
 Faith and abjure the heresy, he ought to be promptly burned if he is a
 layman. (Counterfeiters of money are handed over immediately for exe
cution, and howmuchmoresoshouldcounterfeitersoftheFaith!) If, on
 the other hand, he is a cleric, after being ceremonially stripped from his
 rank, he is left to the secular court for execution. If, however, they return
 to the Faith, they should be cast into life imprisonment (“Heretics,”
 f
 irst and second Chapters “Excommunicamus”). Such is the strict letter
 of the law. They are treated more mildly, however, after they make the
 abjuration that they are obliged to at the discretion of the bishop and
 inquisitor. This will be explained in Part Three511 of the work, where the
 various ways of sentencing such people will be dealt with (who should 75A
 be termed “caught and convicted” or “relapsed”).
 It does not seem to be sufficient to punish sorceresses in these ways,
 since they are not straightforward heretics but also apostates, and fur
thermore in this kind of apostasy they do not renounce the Faith to
 humans on account of fear or the pleasures of the flesh, as was dis
cussed above, but in addition to the renunciation they also do homage
 to the demons by offering them their bodies and souls. From these facts
 it seems probable enough that however much they repent and return
 to the Faith, they should not be imprisoned for life like other heretics
 but should be punished with the ultimate penalty. (This is also the
 dictate of laws, which order execution because of the temporal losses
 that they inflict in various ways on humans and domestic animals, as
 is demonstrated by the Laws “Nullus,” “Nemo” and “Culpa” in Chapter
 “Sorcerers” of the Code [Code of Justinian 9.18.3, 5, 8]). It is a similar
 form of guilt to teach and to learn things that are prohibited, and here
 the laws are speaking in regard to fortune-tellers. How much more so
 in regard to sorcerers, when the laws say that the punishment of the
 fortune-tellers is the confiscation of their goods and decapitation! And
 if by this art someone has solicited a woman for debauchery or the 75B
 511 222A–254C.
236
 The Hammer of Witches 75B–C
 other way around, he is exposed to the beasts, as is said in the same
 chapter in the Law “Multi” (such people were discussed in Question
 One).512
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 14:
 Aq., Sent. 2.21.2.2
 Summa 1/2.71.6; 2/2.10.3, 4, 5, 6; 2/2.11.3; 2/2.12.1]
 question fifteen: it is explained that on account
 of the sins of sorceresses, innocent people are
 often affected by sorcery, though sometimes this
 is also because of their own sins
 75C
 TO make sure that it does not seem inappropriate to anyone
 that by divine permission many innocent people suffer loss and are
 punished in connection with the foregoing varieties of harm on account
 of someone else’s (the sorceresses’) sins and not instances of personal
 guilt, St. Thomas shows (Second of Second,Q.108 [108.4.Ra4]) that it is
 just for this to be done by God in three ways (speaking of the penalties
 in the present life). The first is when one man is the property of another,
 and the one person can be punished as a penalty for the other in the
 same way that a person is punished in connection with his goods. For
 in their body children are a certain sort of property of their father, and
 slaves and animals are that of their owners, and in this way children are
 sometimes punished in place of their parents. For instance, the son born
 to Davidfromadultery promptlydied513 [2 Sam. 12:7–23] and the killing
 of the animals of the Amelechites was commanded514 [1 Sam 15:2–3]. (In
 such instances there may also be some mystical rationale, as is stated in
 1,Q.4 §“Paruulos”).515 The second way is when the sin of one person
 is transferred to another. This happens in two ways.516 One is through
 imitations. For instance, children imitate the sins of their parents, and
 512 9C–D.
 513 King David lusted after Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hittite, and secured her for himself by
 sending Uriah off to die in battle. As punishment, God killed the son of David and Bathsheba
 seven days after his birth.
 514 The prophet Samuel enjoined King Saul in the name of God to kill the Amelekites and all their
 possessions as punishment for their having waylaid the Jews during the flight from Egypt. Saul’s
 failure to carry out this order fully was the reason why God abandoned him and transferred
 the kingdom to David.
 515 This is actually §10 of Gratian’s commentary on Decretum 2.1.4.10.
 516 Three instances actually follow: imitation, merit and acquiescence/turning a blind eye.
Part I 75C–76A
 237
 slaves and subordinates imitate those of their masters, so that they sin
 more boldly. This is the case with wrongly acquired goods that the
 children inherit, and slaves517 sin more boldly in connection with acts
 of brigandage and unjust wars, which quite often result in their being
 killed. The subordinates of prelates sin more boldly when they see the
 prelates sin (even if they do not committhesamesins),whichalsoresults
 in their being justly punished.
 The sin of one person is also transferred to another as a form of
 merit, such as when the sins of his subordinates are transferred to an evil
 prelate. That is, the sins of the subordinates deserve a sinning prelate
 in accordance with the passage in Job [34:30], “He makes a hypocrite
 rule because of the sins of the nation.” Sin, and consequently penalty, 75D
 is also transferred through acquiescence or the turning of a blind eye.
 That is, in a situation where superiors do not reprove sins, the good are
 very often punished along with the evil, as Augustine says in Bk. 1 of
 City of God [1:9].
 Here is an illustration. One of us inquisitors found that a certain
 town had been almost depopulated through the dying of the inhabi
tants, and the rumor was widespread that a certain buried woman was
 swallowing bit by bit the shroud in which she had been buried and
 that the plague could not stop unless she ate the shroud entirely and
 swallowed it into her stomach. After there was a consultation about
 it, the chief judge and the burgermaster dug up the tomb and dis
covered that almost half the shroud had gone down into her stomach
 through her mouth and throat. Agitated at the sight of this, the mayor
 drew his sword, and after cutting off her head, he threw it out of the
 grave. With this, the plague suddenly stopped.518 On the basis of these
 events, it is clear that by divine permission the punishment for the old
 woman’s sins was carried out on the innocent because the authorities
 had turned a blind eye. For after an inquisition was held, it was found 76A
 that during the course of her long life she had been a fortune-teller and
 magician.
 ThepunishmentofDavidbyplagueinconnection with the counting
 of the nation is an illustration of this [2 Samuel 24:15].519
 517 Suchistheancientmeaningofservus,thoughtheauthormayhaveunderstooditinthemedieval
 sense of “serf.”
 518 Given that the rumor at the start of the story seems to be reported with approval, the cessation
 of the plague upon the beheading of the corpse is hard to understand since the corpse did not
 eat the entire shroud.
 519 In 2 Sam. 24:1–25, David took a census, which so enraged God that he sent a plague to afflict
 the Israelites.
238
 The Hammer of Witches 76A–B
 Third,520 it happens by divine permission to commend the unity of
 humansociety because of which one man ought to be concerned for the
 sake of another that he should not sin and as a public indication of the
 repugnance felt for the sin. Here the penalty of one redounds against
 them all as if they were all one body. The sin of Achor (Joshua 7)isan
 illustration of this.521
 76B
 We can add two further ways522 in which evil people are punished
 sometimes through good people and sometimes through other evil peo
ple. As Gratian says (§8 of commentary on [Cause] 23,Q.5, [Ch. 49]),
 God sometimes punishes evil people through those who exercise lawful
 authority at His behest. This happens in two ways. Sometimes it hap
pens for the merit ofthepunishers. For instance, He punishedthesins of
 the Canaanites through His people [Deut. 7:1–5]. Sometimes it happens
 without their merit and even results in their punishment. For instance,
 HepunishedthetribeofBenjamin,reducingittoafewsurvivors[Judges
 20].523 Sometimes, he also inflicts punishment through peoplewho are
 stirred up by His order or permission but whose intention is not to obey
 God but to satisfy their own greed, which accordingly results in their
 owndamnation. For instance, He is now punishing His people through
 the Turks,524 and quite often in the past He did so through foreigners in
 the Old Testament.
 Note that whatever the reason for which someone is being punished,
 if he does not tolerate the penalties with endurance, then the scourging
 is for the purpose not of making amends but of vengeance, that is, pun
ishment, according to the passage in Deuteronomy 32[:22]: “A fire,” that
 is, of temporal penalty, “was lit in My rage,” that is, in punishment, since
 there is no rage in God otherwise, “and it will burn as far as the depths of
 Hell.” That is, vengeance will begin here and burnuntil thefinaldamna
tion, as Augustine [actually, Gregory, Moralia 18.22] explains (this is con
tained in [Decretum] “Penitence,” Dist. 4, [Ch. 43] §“Authoritas”). If,
 520 I.e., third explanation of the justice of God in allowing the innocent to be punished, as laid
 out in 75B.
 521 Achor stole some items that had been plundered from Jericho and dedicated to God. In
 retaliation, God brought about a military defeat of the Israelites.
 522 The previous material comes from Aquinas, and instead of adapting the borrowed passage
 thoroughly these additional reasons are simply tagged on. This additional material, which
 discusses whether the people who inflict punishment on evil people are themselves good or
 evil, is irrelevant to the issue, which is why the innocent are punished.
 523 After some members of the tribe of Benjamin raped and killed the concubine of a traveling
 Levite, the other tribes attacked and virtually wiped the tribe out.
 524 The Turks had only recently (1453) captured Constantinople, and their incursions northwards
 from the Balkans were a source of great anxiety in Germany at this time.
Part I 76B–D
 239
 however, this scourging is borne with endurance and the person endures
 it in a state of Grace, it serves to make amends, as Thomas says in the
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4 [2.15.1.4B.Co.], even if someone,
 even a sorceress, is being punished by a judge for having committed
 sorcery (to a greater or less degree according to the devoutness of the 76C
 person being subjected to this and the nature of the crime). A natural
 death,whileitistheultimateofterrors,doesnot,however,makeamends,
 because it has been implanted by nature as a penalty for Original Sin,
 though according to Scotus [Pronouncements 4.21.Ra4] a death that is
 awaited voluntarily with devoutness and is offered to God can in its
 bitterness make some sort of amends. A violent death, on the other
 hand, whether someone deserved it or not, always makes amends if it is
 endured withtolerance and in Grace. Somuchforthepenaltiesimposed
 because of the sins of others.
 God also scourges in the present life because of people’s own sins,
 specifically in connection with the infliction of acts of sorcery. In Tobias
 7[actually,6:17]theDevilreceivespoweroverthosewhoareslavestolust.
 Thiswasmadeclearintheforegoingdiscussion,whenanexplanationwas
 givenabouttheactsofsorceryaffectingthemembersandfaculties,which
 Godpermits to be more affected by sorcery. Yet in terms of preaching to
 the congregation, it should be noted that notwithstanding the foregoing
 punishments in which God gives punishment for someone else’s or 76D
 one’s own instances of guilt, the preacher should keep as his foundation
 and propound to the congregation the rule of law that says that no
 one should be punished without guilt, unless there is some underlying
 reason. (Extra [Decretum] “Rules of Law,” [Liber Sextus,Bk.5, Title 12]
 Rule 23). This rule is applicable in the court of Heaven, that is, of God,
 and in the court of the forum, that is, in the human forum, whether
 secular or ecclesiastical.
 Explain about the court of Heaven as follows. God punishes with
 a double penalty, spiritual and temporal, and while in the former it is
 found that He never does so in the absence of guilt, in the latter it is
 found that it is sometimes good for Him to do so in the absence of such
 guilt but notwithoutareason.Thefirstspiritualpenalty(therearethree)
 is the removalofGrace,andfromthisfollowsobstinacyinthethingsthat
 havebeendone.Thispenaltyisnotcarriedoutintheabsenceofpersonal
 guilt. The second penalty is loss (that is, the deprivation of glory), and
 it too is never imposed in the absence of personal guilt, as in the case
 of grown-ups, or of contracted fault, as in the case of little ones passing
 away in Original Sin. The third penalty, which is that of perception
240
 The Hammer of Witches 76D–77B
 77A
 77B
 (that is, torment by fire in Hell), is obvious, and hence the statement in
 Exodus 20[:5] (“I am a jealous lord, visiting the sins of the fathers on
 the sons down to the third and fourth generation”) is understood to
 concern the imitators of ancestral misdeeds, as is explained by Gratian
 in §“Quibus”525 of the commentary on 1,Q.4, where he also gives other
 explanations.
 Regarding the second (temporal) penalty, God imposes punishment
 for three reasons. He does so first because of someone else’s guilt, as was
 discussed above,526 or second in the absenceofsomeoneelse’sorpersonal
 guilt but not without a reason, or third as a result of personal guilt and
 not someone else’s. If you want to know the reasons why God punishes
 even in the absence of someone else’s or personal guilt, you should see
 the five ways that the Master527 sets out in Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist.
 15, Ch. 2. (Take the first three reasons and interpret the remaining two
 as instances of personal guilt.) He says the following. It is for five rea
sons that God scourges (imposes penalties on) a man in the present life.
 First, for the glory of God. This happens when a penalty (scourging) is
 miraculously removed(illustration: the manbornblind528 (John9[:1–6])
 and the resurrection of Lazarus529 (John 11[:38–44])). Second, if the first
 cause is lacking, it is nonetheless imposed in order that merit should be
 accumulated through the practice of endurance, and also in order that a
 virtue concealed within should be made obvious to others (illustrations:
 Job 1530 andTobias2[:11]).531 Third,forthepreservationofvirtuethrough
 the humiliation caused bythescourging.Thisisillustratedby Paul, who
 says of himself, “In order that the greatness of the revelations should not
 exalt me, the prodding of my flesh, the angel of Satan, has been given
 to me...” (2 Cor. 12[:7]). (This prodding was, according to Remigius,
 a sort of bodily weakness.) These are the reasons in the absence of guilt.
 Fourth,inorderforeternaldamnationtobeginhere,thatis,inorderthat
 what he will suffer in Hell should be in some way shown. Illustrate this
 525 This sentence actually begins in the middle of §11 and continues into §12 (“From all this it
 is gathered that ignorance of the sin does not excuse someone, but it is not proven by these
 examples that only the imitators of others’ wickedness are liable because of their sin.”)
 526 75B–76A.
 527 I.e., Peter Lombard.
 528 Upon seeing on the Sabbath a man who had been born blind, Jesus’ disciples ask him whether
 the blindness had been caused by the man’s or his parents’ sins. Jesus replies that neither is
 the case. Instead, it happened in order to allow the “work of God” to be manifested in him,
 whereupon he cures the man’s blindness.
 529 Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead in order to show the glory of God to believers.
 530 Job is inflicted by God with many calamities at Satan’s urging to see if he will curse God.
 531 Tobias is blinded to serve as an example of patience.
Part I 77B–C
 241
 with Herod532 (Acts 12[:23]) and Antiochus533 (2 Macc. 9[:5]). Fifth, to
 purify a man. It can be done by throwing out the guilt, that is, when it is
 worndownasaresultofthescourging.Thisisillustratedbytheinfecting
 of Aaron’s sister Mary with leprosy534 (Numbers 13 [actually, 12:10]) and
 by the Israelites being laid low in the desert, according to Jerome535 (23,
 Q. 5,“Quid ergo”). It can also happen to satisfy a penalty. This is illus
trated by David, who, after the adultery that he had committed was for
given in terms of the guilt, was expelled from his kingdom as a penalty,
 as is explained in 2 Samuel [:12, 15], as Gregory notes (“Penance,” Dist.
 1,“Si peccatum”).536 It could also be said that every penalty that we suffer
 derives from our guilt, at any rate from the original one with which
 we are born, because that sin is the cause of all causations (Dist. 5,“Ad
 Eius”).537
 Asforthe thirdpenalty,whichisthatofloss.Speakingofitintermsof 77C
 the eternal loss that they will endure in the future through damnation,538
 let no onedoubtthatthedamnedwillbetorturedinpenalties relating to
 perception.ForjustasGraceisfollowedbyvisionintheHeavenlyHome
land, guilt is followed by penalty in Hell, and just as the level of blessed
ness in the Heavenly Homeland is meted out according to the levels of
 Charity and Grace on the journey there, the measure of punishments in
 Hellisequaltothemeasureofcrimesonthejourneythere.539 Thisiswhat
 is said in Deuteronomy 25[:2]: “The number of blows will be equivalent
 tothemeasureofsin.”Ifthisisthecasewithallothersins,itisparticularly
 532 God killed Herod for not ascribing to God words of praise that were shouted at him by a
 crowd.
 533 God afflicted Antiochus with internal pain for arrogantly threatening to attack Jerusalem.
 534 She was stricken with leprosy by God because of her and Aaron’s opposition to Moses.
 535 Jerome asserts that if God seems harsh in having destroyed the human race with the Flood,
 rained fire and brimstone on Sodom and Gomorrah, covered Egypt with floods, and laid low
 the corpses of the Israelites in the desert, he inflicted these penalties in the present life to avoid
 eternal punishment in the next.
 536 Actually, Gregory merely remarks without detail upon the extent of David’s sufferings after his
 having ignored the prophet’s warnings. As it is, David’s punishment for adultery is the death
 of the ensuing son by Bathsheba (see n. 513). In 2 Sam. 15, David flees Jerusalem because of his
 son Absalom’s conspiracy, but this is not connected in the Bible with David’s adultery.
 537 Theexactrelevanceofthis citation is not clear. This Canonnotesinpassingthatwhilemenstru
ating women are to be praised for refraining from taking communion, they are not prohibited
 from doing so. “For it is characteristic of good minds to confess their own guilt even when
 there is no guilt. For what comes from guilt is often performed without guilt. Hence, we eat
 without guilt when we are hungry, though our being hungry was brought about as a result of
 the guilt of the First Ancestor.”
 538 Another etymological play in the Latin, damnum meaning “loss” and damnatio (from which
 the Christian term “damnation” is derived) meaning “infliction of loss.”
 539 The phrase “journey there” refers to the conception of the present life as merely as journey to
 the eternal life (in heaven or hell) assigned by God on the basis of a person’s actions in this life.
242
 The Hammer of Witches 77C–78A
 f
 itting for sorceresses, as is mentioned in Hebrews 10[:29]: “How much
 worse do you think are the punishments deserved by the person who
 has trampled upon the son of God and considered polluted the blood
 of testimony in which He was made holy?” Such are the personal sins
 of sorceresses, who renounce the Faith, and as will be explained in Part
 Two,540 practice very many acts of sorcery by means of the Most Sacred
 Sacrament.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 15:
 Aq., Summa 2/2.108.4]
 77D
 78A
 question sixteen: | the foregoing truth is
 specifically explained by comparing the works of
 sorceresses to other varieties of superstition
 NEXT,the foregoing truth541isprovenintermsoftheheinous
ness of the crimes in the case of sorceresses through comparison with
 other works of magicians and diviners. There are fourteen varieties of
 superstitious works based on a division of divination into three kinds.
 The first variety takes place through the open invocation of demons,
 the second merely through the silent observation of the arrangement or
 motion of objects like constellations, days, winds and the like, and the
 third through the observation of some human action for the purpose of
 inquiring about something hidden. All these kinds have the designation
 “fortunes.” The varieties of the first kind of divination, the one that
 takes place through the explicit invocation of demons, are conjuring,
 divination by dreams, divination by the dead, Pythian divination, div
ination by earth, divination by water, divination by air, divination by fire
 and the religious practice of soothsayers (Thomas in Second of Second,
 Q. 95 [95.3.Co.] and 26,Q.3,“Igitur” and Q. 5,“Nec mirum”). Next,
 the varieties of the second kind are horoscope casters, haruspices, augurs,
 omen watchers, diviners by hand and diviners by shoulder bone. The
 varieties of the third kind differ according to all those things that have
 the designation “fortunes” for the purpose of inquiring about something
 540 95D–100D.
 541 I.e., that thesinsofsorceressessurpassallothers.Thissectionpresentstheseconddemonstration
 of this proposition, that is, through a comparison with other varieties of crime that result from
 a pact with demons, as laid out in 71D (see n. 488).
Part I 78A–C
 243
 hidden, namely divination by the observation of dots, straws and con
gealed shapes in lead. This is discussed in Thomas (cited above) and 26,
 Qs. 3 and 4.
 All these offenses are surpassed by the crimes of sorceresses, and
 since this is a conclusion about the more prominent varieties, there
 is no difficulty about the lesser ones. In the first variety, the one in
 which some people deceive the human perceptions with certain appear
ances created through conjuring, so that a physical object is perceived
 differently by the sense of vision or touch, as was discussed in the
 foregoing542 in connection with the method of dazzling the eyes, sor
ceresses are not content with these deeds. No, they many times take
 away the power to procreate, sometimes by taking away the members
 of the procreative ability through an appearance caused by conjuring
 (though not in reality), so that a woman cannot conceive or a man 78B
 perform the act, sometimes without an illusion from conjuring, the
 member remaining in place. After conception, they also cause miscar
riages, and often do so with countless other crimes. They also appear
 in the shapes of various animals (this was explained in the questions
 above).543
 Next,inthesecondvariety,theonethatiscallednigromancyandtakes
 place through the appearance or speaking of the dead (since, as is said in
 Etymologies,Bk.3 [actually, 8.9.11], the Greek “nigros” means “death” in
 Latin and “mancy” means “divination”), they commit such acts through
 the bloodofapersonorsomeanimalover544 certaincharacters, knowing
 that the demonsloveblood(thatis, the sheddingofit) andsins. Henceit
 happensthatwhentheythinktheyaresummoningthedeadfromHellto
 answer the questions put to them, the demons appear in the likenesses
 of these people and perform such acts. Someone who possessed this
 sort of art was the famous magician and pythoness545 mentioned in 1
 Samuel 28[:7], who raised Samuel from the dead at the insistence of
 Saul. Let no one think that such things are lawful on the grounds 78C
 that Scripture records that when the soul of the righteous prophet was
 summonedfromthedead,itrevealedtoSaultheoutcomeofafuturewar,
 542 57C–58B.
 543 The issue of sorceresses appearing in the guise of animals has not been addressed; presumably,
 the reference is to Q. 10 (59B–63C), which discusses how sorceresses make other people look
 like animals.
 544 The sense of “over” is not self-evident but presumably refers to spilling the blood over the
 characters.
 545 For this as a term for a “seer” who can communicate with the dead, see 8C, 10C, 78B–C and
 79D.
244
 The Hammer of Witches 78C–79A
 through a female pythoness at that. As Augustine says (To Simplicianus
 [2.3]), it is not absurd to believe that by some dispensation it had been
 permittedthat,withouttheforceofthemagicalartorpowerbutthrough
 a hidden dispensation unknown to the pythoness and Saul, the spirit
 of the righteous man showed itself to the vision of the king in order to
 strike him with the sentence of God, or perhaps the spirit of Samuel
 was not truly raised from its repose, and instead some fantastical picture
 and delusion of the imagination at the hands of demons was made
 through the contrivances of the Devil, and this is what the Scripture
 calls Samuel, just as images are customarily named after the things they
 portray.
 78D
 79A
 These statements are from a response to a certain argument regard
ing the question of whether the divination that takes place through the
 invocation of demons is unlawful (Second of Second,Q.95,Art.4,“As
 for the second”). If the reader wishes to, let him look at the response to
 the final argument of the question of whether there are levels of proph
esy among the blessed (same book of the Summa,Q.174 [174.5]). Let
 himalso examine Augustine’s statement in 26,Q.5 “Nec Mirum.” These
 quotations have little relevance to the works of sorceresses, however,
 since they retain no variety of piety in them. This is clear to anyone
 who looks at their works, since they do not cease to shed innocent
 blood and to make every secret thing manifest at the Devil’s instruc
tions, sparing neither living nor dead as they destroy souls along with
 bodies.
 Finally, thethirdvariety,theonethatiscalledthedivinationofdreams,
 is practiced in two ways. In the first, someone uses dreams to be able to
 track down something secret on the basis of a revelation made by evil
 spirits with whom explicit agreements are kept (that is, the spirits are
 invoked for this purpose). In the second, someone uses dreams to learn
 of the future inasmuch as dreams derive from divine revelation or from
 a natural cause, whether internal or external. As far as such a power can
 extend, it will not constitute unlawful divination. So Thomas (citation
 above [Second of Second 95.6.Co.]).
 For the interpretation of this, so that preachers will have at least the
 gist of it, it should be noted that as for the first argument (the one about
 angels), since an angel is characterized by a restricted virtue, he can
 reveal some future events more effectively to a soul that is disposed than
 to one that is indisposed. Disposition takes place after the outer and
 inner motions are calmed, for instance when the night is silent and the
 motions of the vapors are calmed. This happens around dawn, when
Part I 79A–C
 245
 digestion is finished. I say this about us, who are similar to sinners.546
 For out of divine piety, angels make revelations to us for the execution
 of our office547 or they instruct our intellect about the secrets of the
 Scriptures during study time at dawn. (For a good angel presides over
 the intellect, just as God presides over the will and the heavenly bodies
 over our bodies.) He can, however, make revelations to more perfect
 men at any hour, whether they are awake or asleep, though according
 to the Philosopher in Sleep and Wakefulness a certain time, as has been
 said,548 is more suitable than another for receiving revelations, as is the
 customary practice with other magicians.
 As for the second,549 note that as a result of nature’s natural care for
 the governance of the body it happens that certain future events have a
 natural effect on a sleeping person. In this case, these dreams (visions) 79B
 are merely tokens and notcauses, as was said in terms of the angel. These
 are tokens of incidental events that will happen in connection with the
 person, like health or illness or danger and so on. The pronouncement
 of Aristotle (cited above) is that in the dreams nature exhibits to the soul
 certain dispositions that are in the body, and an illness or something
 else happens as a result of these dispositions. For instance, if someone
 dreams of activities involving fire, it is a token of choler in him, if he
 dreams of ones involving the air like flying and the like, it is a token of
 blood, if he dreams of ones involving water or some watery liquid, it is
 a token of phlegm, if he dreams of ones involving earth, it is a token of
 melancholy.550 Forthisreason,doctorssometimesreceiveassistancefrom
 dreams in recognizing the dispositions of the body, as the Philosopher
 also says in the same book.
 Again, such dreams are trivial compared to the ones superstitiously
 practiced by sorceresses. For if they do not wish to be transferred bod
ily in the way discussed above551 and instead wish to perceive only in
 the imagination the crimes that are being committed by their fellow
sorceresses, they can recline on their left side in the name of their devil 79C
 and of all the demons. From this it happens that pictures of the individ
ual events are exhibited to a sorceress in the vision of the imagination.
 Similarly, if they wish to know certain secrets on behalf of themselves
 546 This designation reflects mock humility.
 547 I.e., the inquisition.
 548 57B.
 549 I.e., use of dreams (for predicting the future), as laid out in 78D.
 550 These four examples relate to the four “temperaments” of which the body consisted according
 to medieval medical theory (based on Aristotle).
 551 Seemingly not. The topic is treated in Pt. ii,Q.2, Ch. 3 (101A–105C).
246
 The Hammer of Witches 79C–80A
 or of other people, they are informed by the demons through dreams.
 This is done through agreements entered into with them that are
 not implied but explicit, and, again, not through just any agreement
 entered into in just any way through the sacrifice of some animal or a
 sacrilegious petition or offering the presentation of adoration, but by
 offering themselves to the demons in soul and body as they completely
 renounce the Faith with a sacrilegious mouth. Not content with these
 deeds, to the demons they also offer or kill their own or other people’s
 children, topics discussed above.552
 79D
 80A
 Next, the fourth variety is the one that is carried out by Pythons
 (named,accordingtoIsidore[Etymologies8.9.9],afterApollothePython,
 who is said to have been the inventor of divination),553 not through
 dreams or the speaking of the dead, but through the living, as in the case
 of the “seized,” who, being seized in this way by demons either willingly
 or unwillingly, are impelled only to foretell the future and not for other
 crimes. Such was the famous girl mentioned in Acts 16[:16–18] who
 shouted after the Apostles that they were true slaves of God. Outraged
 at this, Paul ordered the spirit to depart from her. It is clear that there is
 slight comparison with the sorceresses and their works, who are clearly
 called this [“evil-doers” in Latin] because of the large number of their
 misdeeds and the heinousness of their crimes according to Isidore, as
 was stated above.554 Hence, for the sake of brevity, it would not be useful
 to prove these assertions in connection with the other, lesser varieties of
 divination when the greater ones are known to surpass them. When the
 preacher decides to adduce the other varieties (like divination by earth,
 whichiscarried out withanobjectmadeofearthlikeafingernail,ironor
 a polished stone,555 divination by water, which is carried out with water
 or crystal, divination by air, which is carried out with air, that of the
 soothsayers, which is carried out with the entrails of animals sacrificed
 on the altars of demons), though all these forms of divination take
 place through the explicit invocation of demons, nonetheless there is no
 comparisonwith acts of sorcery on the part of the sorceresses, since the
 immediate purpose of the former is not to harm men, domestic animals
 and the fruits of the earth but to know the future in advance. Regarding
 552 Q. 11 (63D–64B).
 553 The etymology of “Pythian” Apollo is here confused with the translation “python” used for the
 female seer who allowed Saul to communicate with the dead in 1 Sam. 28 (see n. 545).
 554 15C.
 555 It was a common magical practice to have the victim of a crime look into a shiny object in
 order to “see” the perpetrator. (Presumably, the procedure helped the victim visualize the person
 whom he suspected, whether consciously or subconsciously, of the crime.)
Part I 80A–B
 247
 the other varieties of divination, which are practiced through an implicit
 invocation and also through an implicit, so to speak, agreement with
 the demons– like horoscope casters or astrologers (so called because
 of their observations of birthdays),556 haruspices, who observe days and
 hours, augurs, who observe the movements or songs of birds, omen
 watchers, who observe the words of humans, and hand-diviners, who
 makepredictions on the basis of lines in the hands or the shoulder bones
 of animals– if anyone wishes to, let him consult Nider’s Praeceptorium
 in Precept Two [2.4], and he will find how many things are lawful and
 many not. But the works of sorceresses are never lawful.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 16:
 Aq., Sent. 2.7.2.2
 Summa 2/2.95.3, 4, 6]
 the seventeenth question is in explanation of
 the fourteenth, comparing the seriousness of
 the crime to any sins on the part of demons
 SO great is the enormity of their crimes that they surpass even 80B
 the sins and downfall of the evil angels.557 If they are surpassing in their
 instances of guilt, how are they not also in their punishments in Hell?
 Certainly it is not difficult to demonstrate this in various ways in terms
 of instances of guilt.
 First, although the Devil’s sin is unforgivable, the reason for this is
 not the enormity of the crime, if the demons’ natural gifts are taken
 into account. This is particularly so according to the view of those who
 say that the demons were created in the possession of only natural gifts
 and not of those of Grace. Because the good of Grace surpasses that
 of nature, the sins of those who fall from a state of Grace, as is the
 case with the sorceresses when they renounce the Faith they accepted at
 baptism, clearly surpass the demons’ sins. If, on the other hand, we say
 that the demons were created in Grace, though not confirmed, then, the
 556 This is a misleading adaptation of Aquinas (Summa 2/2.95.3.Co.), who notes that the term
 geneathlici, a synonym for “astrologer,” is derived from the (Greek) word for “birthday.”
 557 Thisquestiondescribesthethirdwayinwhichthesorceressesareguiltyofsurpassingcriminality,
 comparing their sins to those of the demons, as laid out in 71D. There this issue is connected
 with a comparison with the sins of the first ancestors, and while the present question does treat
 this matter (81A–C), it is not mentioned in the heading; see n. 488.
248
 The Hammer of Witches 80B–D
 sorceresses, though not created in Grace, also fell from Grace of their
 own accord, just as the Devil too sinned willingly.
 80C
 80D
 Theseconddemonstration. TheDevil’s sin is unforgivable for various
 other reasons. For instance, according to Augustine [City of God 21.23],
 since he did not sin at anyone’s suggestion, he also ought to return with
out anyone restoring him. According to John of Damascus [Exposition
 of the Orthodox Faith 2.3], he sinned in the intellect in violation of God’s
 form, and the more noble the power of recognition, the worse the sin.
 For in knowing the will of his master, a slave, and so on.558 Or, again
 according to John of Damascus [as above], because he is incapable of
 accepting penitence, he is also incapable of accepting forgiveness. This
 is the result of his nature, which, being merely spiritual, is changeable
 just once because it converts itself entirely, which is not the case with
 man, in whom the flesh constantly fights back against the spirit. Or the
 Devil sinned in a lofty place like Heaven, while man did so on earth.
 Nonetheless, despite these arguments, in comparison to the crimes of
 sorceresses the Devil’s guilt is lessened in many other regards. First, he
 sinned, according to Anselm in some prayer [Orations 62], in arrogance
 without the punishment for any crime preceding, but as for the sorcer
esses, after the frequent imposition of very great penalties on many other
 sorceresses, indeed even after learning in church of the penalties imposed
 on the Devil on account of his downfall, they look upon all this with
 contempt, and unlike the other sinners, who sin as a result of weakness
 or evil without habitual559 evil, it is not minor mortal sins that the sorcer
esses hanker after, but, as a result of the deep evil of their hearts, horrible
 crimes. Second, the Devil’s guilt is lessened because while there are three
 states in the evil angel (innocence, guilt, and wretchedness or penalty),
 he fell from innocence in this way just the one time and has never been
 restored to it, butthesinner,whohasbeenrestoredtoinnocencethrough
 baptism, is sunk much deeper when he falls from it a second time. This
 is true of the sorceresses above all others, as their crimes show. Third,
 while the Devil rebelled against his Creator, we– and the sorceresses
 above all others– do so against our Creator and Redeemer, and so on.
 Fourth, the Devil abandoned God, Who permitted him to sin and did
 not pursue him out of piety, while we– and these sorceresses above all
 others– are made removed byoursins fromGod,Whopermitsustosin
 and constantly pursues us out of piety and anticipates our needs with
 558 This is an abbreviated allusion (see n. 194) to the argument that when a slave (man) knows the
 will of his owner (God), he is to be punished for ignoring it.
 559 See n. 370 for the meaning of “habit” contained in the adjective “habitual.”
Part I 80D–81B
 249
 very manyfavors.Fifth, theDevilpersists in his evil, which Godcensures
 but does not apply His Grace to it, while in our wretchedness we rush
 into this evil, though God constantly calls us back. Sixth, the Devil 81A
 remains hard-hearted towards a punisher, while we remain hard-hearted
 towards an enticer. Even though both rebel against God, nonetheless the
 Devil does so against One Who makes demands of him, while we do
 so against One Who died on our behalf, and, as we stated before, the
 sorceresses above all others offend Him by dishonoring Him.
 The solutions to the arguments also explain the truth
 through comparison
 AS for the arguments.560
 [RA1]Asforthefirst,theresponseismadeclearthroughthediscussion
 at the beginning of the body561 of the question (on what basis one sin
 ought to be considered more serious than another and how the sins of
 the sorceresses are more severe than all others in terms of guilt).
 [RA2]Asforthesecond(theoneconcerningthepenalty),oneshould
 say that like his guilt, the penalty of Adam is considered in two ways,
 either in terms of the person or in terms of the entire nature, namely the
 posterity that arose from him.
 The first way. Greater sins were committed after him, in that he
 sinned merely by doing what was evil not in itself but only because it 81B
 was prohibited, while acts of fornication, adultery and murder are evil
 both ways, that is, in themselves and as prohibited acts. Therefore, they
 deserve an even more severe penalty.
 The second way. Although the greatest penalty followed the first sin,
 this is so only in an indirect way, inasmuch as through him all posterity
 was tainted with original sin. For though he is the First Ancestor of
 all those for whom the Son of God alone was able to make amends
 through ordained power, he repented his own sin with divine Grace
 acting as the intermediary and was saved after the redemption brought
 about by Christ. The sins of the sorceresses, on the other hand, are
 incomparably surpassing in severity, since they are not content with
 their own personal sins and damnation, and constantly drag countless
 other women after them.
 560 These are the rebuttals of the arguments made at the start of Q. 14 (71A–B). This section also
 provides the third comparison of the sins of sorceresses (to those of the first ancestors), as laid
 out in 71D, the “truth” referred to in the heading of this section being that the former surpass
 the latter (see n. 488).
 561 I.e., the “argument” section (71B).
250
 The Hammer of Witches 81B–D
 81C
 81D
 [RA 3] As for the third, one should say on the basis of the foregoing
 that it was an incidental result that the sin of Adam inflicted greater
 harm, in that he found nature intact and it was by necessity and not
 by will that he had to pass it on in a corrupted state. It does not follow
 from this that his sin was straightforwardly more severe than the others.
 Another reason is that the same people would have committed these
 subsequent sins even if they had found their nature intact, just as in
 termsofmortalsinAdamdoesnotcausethedeprivationofGracebecause
 he did not find Grace, but he would cause such deprivation if he had
 found it. This is the solution of St. Thomas in the Commentary on
 Pronouncements,Bk. 2, Dist. 21,Art. 2 in the solution to the second
 argument. If someone wishes to understand this solution fully, he must
 consider that if Adam had exhibited original righteousness, he would
 not have transferred it to his descendants, as was Anselm’s view [Orations
 62], because someone would still have been able to sin after him. Let
 the words of the Doctor be examined as to whether children born later
 would have been confirmed in Grace. This is in Dist. 20 [Sent. 2.20.2.3]
 and in Quodlibet 101 (“Whether the same people who are saved now
 would have been saved if Adam had not sinned”).
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 17 plus the rebuttals to the arguments of
 Q. 14:
 Aq., Sent. 2.21.2.2]
 there follows the method of preaching against
 the five arguments of laymen, by which various
 among them imagine that they prove that god
 does not permit such power to the devil and
 sorceresses in connection with inflicting such
 acts of sorcery562
 NEXT, let the preacher make provision against certain argu
ments of laymen or of certain learned men,563 who deny the existence
 of sorceresses to the extent that, while they grant the demon’s evil and
 562 The table of contents (3A) describes this section as Q. 18, but there is no overt indication here
 of the start of a new question.
 563 Pretty muchbydefinitionchurchmen,sinceallformsofeducationwereinsomewayconnected
 to the Church.
Part I 81D–82B
 251
 his power to inflict evils of this kind as he pleases, they nonetheless deny
 that divine permission stoops to his level. They are unwilling to have
 God permit such things to happen, and although they have no way of
 arguing and grope in the dark like blind men, touching now one means,
 nowanother, it is nonetheless necessary to reduce their claims to the five
 arguments from which all their quibbles can certainly be derived. The
 f
 irst is that God does not permit the Devil to act savagely against men
 by the authority of such power.
 [TT] Whether divine permission must in fact co-operate in
 order for ademontobringaboutaneffectofsorcerythroughsorceresses.
 It is argued with five arguments that God does not give His permission, 82A
 and hence there is also no such thing as sorcery in the world. The first
 argument concerns God, the second, the Devil, the third, the sorcer
ess, the fourth, disease, and the fifth, the preachers and judges who,
 in preaching such sermons and passing such judgments against them,
 would certainly never be safe.
 [AG1]Thefirstisasfollows.GodcanpunishamanforhissinandHe
 punishes by the sword, hunger and mortality, and also by the countless
 other sorts of illnesses to which the human condition is subject. Hence,
 because God has no need to add other punishments, He does not give
 His permission.
 [AG 2] The second argument (concerning the Devil) is as follows. It
 is preached that sorceresses are able to impede the power of procreation,
 so that a woman does not conceive, or if she does, she has a miscarriage,
 or if she does not have a miscarriage, they kill the children after the
 birth. If these things were true, the sorceresses would certainly be able
 to destroy the entire world. Again, it could be said that the works of
 the Devil would be stronger than the works of God, that is, than the
 Sacrament of Marriage, which is a work of God.
 [AG3] Thethird argument (concerning man).We see that if there is 82B
 supposed to be such a thing as sorcery in the world, then some people
 are affected by sorcery more than others. If this is questioned, clearly
 it is said that this is for the sake of punishing sinners, but this is false
 and therefore so too is the claim that acts of sorcery exist in the world.
 The falseness is proven on the grounds that in that case greater sinners
 would be punished more, but this is false since they are punished less
 than others, and sometimes the righteous are punished, as can be seen in
 the case of innocent children of whom it is claimed that they are affected
 by sorcery.
252
 The Hammer of Witches 82B–D
 [AG 4] Fourth,564 another argument can be added concerning God.
 Whatsomeonecan impede and does not impede but permits to happen
 is certainly considered to have resulted from his will, but since God is
 supremely good, He cannot wish for an evil thing, and therefore He
 cannot permit an evil thing that He is able to impede from happening.
 [AG 5] Also, concerning the disease. The defects and illnesses that
 82C
 82D
 are said to be caused by sorcery are in fact similar to natural defects and
 illnesses, that is, to those that result from nature. Someone’s going lame
 or being blinded or losing his reason or dying can happen as a result of
 a defect of nature, and hence these occurrences cannot be safely ascribed
 to sorceresses.
 [AG 6] Lastly, concerning the judges and preachers who, since they
 carry out such preachings and proceedings against the sorceresses, would
 certainly neverbesafeagainstthevasthatredthatthesorceressesconceive
 against them.
 [SC 1] But to the contrary. Let arguments be taken from the first565
 question in the third basic topic of Part One of the treatise, and let those
 be propoundedthatare moresuitable for preaching to the congregation.
 These are how God permits an evil thing to be done, though He does
 not wish anevil thing to be done, and how Hedoessoforthesakeofthe
 admirable perfecting of the universe, this perfecting being considered
 in the fact that good things are commended more prominently and
 are more pleasing and praiseworthy when compared to evil ones (the
 authorities are contained in that passage).
 [SC2]Also, the depths of God’s divine wisdom, justice and goodness,
 which would otherwise be concealed, shine forth.
 [CO] To settle the question briefly, various proofs for the instruction
 of the congregation can be gathered from the matters that are discussed
 in that passage. One is that since it was just for God to permit the two
 falls of the angels and the First Ancestors, which are greater than all the
 others, it is no wonder that other, smaller ones are permitted. Another
 proof is how those falls are greater in terms of causality but not in terms
 of the other circumstances, in which the sins of sorceresses surpass the
 564 The counting here does not correspond to the framework laid out in 82A, where no account is
 taken of the present argument and the next (here unnumbered) argument is instead counted
 as fourth. Since the text overtly indicates that this argument is a further one concerning the
 role of God (the topic of the first argument), it is hard to see why it has been placed here. The
 “solutions” (82D–85C) follow the numeration given here rather than that of the introduction
 (82A).
 565 I.e., Q. 12 (64C–68C), which is the first question of the section on divine permission (see 20B);
 similarly, Q. 13 (68C–71A) is called the ”second” question in 68C and 82D.
Part I 82D–83B
 253
 sins of both the evil angels and of the First Ancestors, as was discussed
 in the third566 question. Why it was just for God to permit those falls is
 discussed in the second567 question. From these proofs the preacher can
 gather very many items and elaborate upon them as he desires.
 Nowfor responses to the arguments.
 [RA 1] As for the first. When it is said that God makes sufficient
 punishment through natural illnesses and forms of mortality (the sword
 and hunger), the response is given on three grounds.
 First, because God did not restrict His virtue to any natural process
 or to the influences of the heavenly bodies, which would result in His
 being unable to do anything beyond those things, it is in fact very often
 the case that He has acted beyond them in the punishment of sins,
 inflicting forms of mortality and other things beyond any influence of
 the heavenly bodies. For instance, He punished the sin of arrogance in 83A
 David with the deaths inflicted on the people because of the counting
 of the people and so on.568
 Second, this is certainly concordant with divine wisdom, which
 adminsters all things in such a way that it allows them to act by their
 own impulses. Therefore, just as it is not appropriate to impede the
 demon’s evil at all and instead it is more fitting to permit it to the extent
 that this pertains to the good of the universe (though he is immediately
 reined in by the good angels so that he cannot cause as much harm as
 he would wish), it is likewise inappropriate to rein in human evil in
 connection with those things over which it has power as a result of free
 will, such as renouncing the Faith and dedicating oneself to a demon,
 acts whose commission is clearly in the power of the human will. Since
 Godis especially offended by these two acts, it is just for Him to permit
 the desires of a sorceress, because of which she has renounced the Faith,
 and to which the power of the Devil extends, for instance the ability to
 harm humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth.
 Third, it is just for God to permit those evil things to happen by
 which the Devil is especially tormented in an indirect manner and 83B
 receives the highest displeasure. The devil is especially tormented in an
 indirect manner through those evil things that are done by sorceresses
 by the virtue of demons when, contrary to the Devil’s will, God uses all
 these evil things to glorify His own name, to commend the Faith, and to
 cleanse the Elect and pile up their merits. For it is certain that among all
 566 I.e., Q. 14 (71A–75B and 81A–C) (see preceding note).
 567 I.e., Q. 13 (see n. 565).
 568 See 76A.
254
 The Hammer of Witches 83B–D
 the displeasures that the Devil receives as a result of the arrogance that
 he always raises up against God, in accordance with the passage, “The
 arrogance of those who hate you always mounts up” [Psalm 73:23], the
 mainonebywhichheisdispleasedisGod’sturningallofhiscontrivances
 to His own glory and so on. It is therefore just for God to permit all
 things.
 83C
 83D
 [RA 2] As for the second, the response was given above, but it is
 necessary to give responses to two statements that are included in the
 argument. For it is not said that the Devil, or his doing, is stronger
 than God. To the contrary, it can be seen that he possesses very little
 virtue, since he has no power except by divine permission, and hence his
 capability can be called very little in comparison with divine permission,
 though it is very great in comparison with the bodily virtues that it
 exceeds naturally, in accordance with the passage often cited, “There is
 no power of the earth that can be compared to him” (Job 41[:24]).
 Another response to be given concerns why God permits acts of sor
cery to be committed on the force to procreate rather than other human
 acts, which were discussed above569 in the material on God’s permission
 under the heading “How sorceresses can impede the force to procreate
 and the sexual act.” The reason is the foulness of that act and the fact
 that Original Sin, which is inflicted as a result of the guilt of the First
 Ancestors, is transferred by that act. An illustration of this is given in
 the snake, which was the first tool of the Devil, and so on.570
 [RA 3] As for the third, it should be said that just as his intent and
 desire are greater in terms of tempting the good than the evil (though
 from the point of view of the one tempted he tempts the evil more than
 the good, that is, because there is more facility to receive the temptation
 of the demon in the evil than there is in the good), he likewise aims
 at harming the good more than the evil (though he would find more
 facility to cause harm in the evil than in the good). The reason for
 this is that according to Gregory [Moralia 13.18] the more frequently
 someone subordinates himself to the Devil, the more unendurable he
 makes the Devil for himself, so that he cannot resist him, and since the
 evil more frequently subordinate themselves to the Devil, temptation
 becomes more unendurable to them and more frequent, because they
 569 Q. 8 (52C–55D). Peculiarly, this question does not fall under the rubric of God’s permission,
 which is treated in Qs. 12–18 (64B–84C), yet an early reference (24C) to the issue of why God
 allows sexual acts to be affected by sorcery likewise states that this topic is treated under the
 rubric of “God’s permission,” which presumably also signifies Q. 8.
 570 53B.
Part I 83D–84B
 255
 do not have the shield of Faith to defend themselves with. About this
 shield the Apostle says: “In all things taking up the shield of the Faith,
 with which you are able to extinguish all the fiery missiles of the Most
 Evil One” (Ephesians 6[:16]).
 From the other perspective, he assails the good more often and more
 keenly than the evil. The reason for this is that since he already owns the
 evil but not the good, he makes a greater effort to bring the righteous,
 whom he does not own, under his dominion through tribulation than
 he does with the sinners, whom he does own. Similarly, a prince of the
 world rears up against a man who derogates more from his rights or who
 harms his kingdom more than he does against those who do not oppose
 him.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth (that God permits evil things to happen 84A
 but does not wish evil things to happen), apart from the foregoing
 discussions, the preacher can give an explanation through the five tokens
 of divine will, which are injunction, prohibition, advice, working and
 permission (see St. Thomas, especially in the First Part, because there he
 gives a fuller explanation (Quest. 19,Art. 12 [also Art. 11])). Although
 there is one will in God, which is God Himself, just as there is a single
 essence in Him, nonetheless in terms of His works His will is indicated
 and shown to us in many ways, and in accordance with this the psalm
 writer says, “The great works of the Lord were chosen for all His wills”
 [110:2]. Hence, in connection with God, will is distinguished in terms
 not of the object but of his effects, so that the will spoken of properly is
 called the will of the resolve and the will spoken of symbolically is called
 the will of the token, to the extent that through tokens and symbols
 it is indicated to us that God wills a given thing. By similar reasoning,
 this is like the way that the head of the household, who has one will in
 him, makes this clear in five ways, either by himself or through another
 person.
 He does so by himself in two ways, directly or indirectly. The direct 84B
 way is when he does some work himself and in this case it is a working,
 andtheindirectwayiswhenhedoesnotimpedesomeoneelse’sworking.
 It is said in Physics,Bk.4 [8.4] that what removes and prohibits causes
 motion incidentally, and in this respect permission is called a token.
 The head of the household, on the other hand, makes it clear through
 another that he wants something in three ways. One is that he orders
 someone to do something obligatorily and prohibits the contrary, and
 in this way injunction consists of the things enjoined and prohibition
 consists of positive and negative injunctions. The other way is that he
256
 The Hammer of Witches 84B–D
 orders someone to perform certain acts by means of persuading him or
 of winning him over (this is an aspect of advice).
 84C
 84D
 Just as human will is made obvious in these three ways, so too is that
 of God. That God’s will is called injunction, prohibition and advice
 is made clear by the passage, “May Your will be done on earth just as
 in Heaven” (Matt. 6[:10]), that is, we should fulfill His injunctions on
 earth, avoid things prohibited, and to the best of our ability fulfill His
 advice. Similarly, that God’s will is called permission and working is
 explained by Augustine, who says in Enchiridion [95], “Nothing is done
 unless Almighty God wishes it to be done, either by allowing it to be
 done or by doing it.”571
 As for the issue at hand, when it is said that what someone could
 impede anddoes not is judged to have resulted from his will, this is true,
 but when the inference is made that since God is supremely good, He
 cannot wish evil things to happen, it is true that, because He cannot
 engage in evil workings or give evil injunctions, it is impossible for Him
 to fail to prohibit evil things and urge good works of supererogation572
 by the will of His resolve and through the four tokens of this will, but
 He can wish to permit evil things to be done.
 [RA 5] As for the other argument, the one about how illnesses can be
 distinguished from each other, so that one is caused by sorcery, the other
 by nature, for example as a result of a defect of nature, it is answered that
 this can be done in various ways. The first is through the judgment of
 physicians (26,Q.5,“Nonlicet”andQ.2,“Illud ”).Inthesecondchapter
 are the words of Augustine: “To this kind of superstition belong all
 amulets and cures that the medical discipline condemns in connection
 withtyingonandknottinganyobjects.”Asimilarwayiswhenphysicians
 form, on the basis of circumstances (age, the sudden changing of a
 temperament that had been healthy in virtually the blinking of an eye,
 and the fact that the illness did not happen as the result of blood, bile or
 deformity), the judgment that the illness happened as the result not of a
 defect of nature but from an external cause. In a case where it happened
 from an external cause, if it did not happen as a result of tainting with
 poison, because in this case the blood and stomach would be filled with
 evil humors, then on the basis of a sufficient distinction they judge that
 571 The argumentation here is typical of scholastic methodology. The quotation cited to prove the
 assertion actually says nothing of the kind and is itself interpreted to this effect on the basis
 of the assertion that it supposedly supports, which is a form of the logical fallacy known as
 petitio principii (assuming the conclusion in interpreting the evidence meant to demonstrate
 that conclusion).
 572 The technical term in theology for good deeds that go beyond what is obligatory.
Part I 84D–85B
 257
 theeffect is oneofsorcery.Thesecondwayiswhentheillnessisincapable
 of being cured by them, so that no drugs can make the sick man better,
 and instead the physicians see that he is getting worse. The third way
 consists of the occasions when the illness happens so suddenly that the
 judgment of the sick man agrees about this.573
 Aneventcametothenoticeofoneofus.574 Oneoftheleadingmenof
 the city of Speyer had a wife of such a contrary disposition that although
 he readily strove to please her in all matters, she would recalcitrantly
 oppose him in virtually all his desires and always contrived to annoy 85A
 him with insulting words. It then happened that when he entered the
 house one day andhis wife was reviling him in her usual way with words
 of reproach, he wanted both to give way to her anger and to leave the
 house, but with a sprint she beat him to the doorway through which he
 had to go out and blocked it. In a loud voice she declared that if he did
 not strike her, there was no integrity or honor in him. At these strong
 words, he stretched out his hand without the intention of harming her
 and touched her lightly on the shoulder blade with his fingers spread
 out. Suddenly, he was dashed to the ground and lost all perception. For
 several weeks he lay in bed, stricken with the most severe illness. In this
 affair it can be considered that the illness happened to him not as the
 result of a natural defect but through the wife’s sorcery. A large, or rather
 an almost countless, number of similar acts have been committed and
 have come to the notice of many people.
 There are some men who use a certain practice to test the matter, as
 follows. They hold molten lead over the sick man and pour it into a 85B
 dish of water. If some picture congeals and becomes visible, then they
 judge that the illness happened as a result of sorcery. When certain men
 who engage in these practices are asked whether such a picture comes
 forth through the work of demons or by a natural virtue, their usual
 answer is that Saturn,575 which is otherwise evil, has a virtue over the
 lead like that of the sun over gold, and with this virtue it demonstrates
 the sorcery.576 What opinion should be held about them (whether the
 practice is lawful or not) will be treated in the third basic section577 of
 this treatise. For the canonists think it lawful for vain acts to be smashed
 withvainacts,thoughthetheologiansthinkthecompleteopposite,since
 evil acts should not be committed so that good ones will result.
 573 I.e., that it is sorcery.
 574 I.e., one of the two authors.
 575 I.e., the planet.
 576 See the anecdote and explanation in 156D–157A, and the anecdote in 135B–D.
 577 I.e., Pt. ii,Q.2 (152A–184A).
258
 The Hammer of Witches 85B–C
 85C
 [RA6]Asforthefinalargument,inwhichvariousquestionsareraised:
 f
 irst, why sorceresses do not grow rich; second, why they do not help the
 princes who favor them to destroy all the princes’ enemies; third, why
 they are unable to harmthepreachers and others whopersecute them.578
 As for the first, it should be said that the reason why for the most part
 sorceresses are not made rich is so that in accordance with the demon’s
 pleasure and as an insult to the Creator they should be bought for the
 lowest price possible. A second reason is to make sure that they do not
 become noticed amidst riches.
 As for the second (why they do not harm princes),579 the reason is
 obvious. To the extent that they can, what happens is that they retain
 the princes in their friendship. If it is asked why they do not harm
 the princes’ enemies, it is answered that on the other side a good angel
 impedes such an act of sorcery in accordance with the passage in Daniel,
 “The prince of the Persians resisted me for twenty-one days” [10:13] (see
 the Doctors on Pronouncements,Bk.2, “Whether there is a battle among
 good angels and in what way” [2.11.2.5]).
 As for the third, it is said that they cannot harm inquisitors or any
 other holders of an office because they are exercising public justice.
 Various illustrations to this effect could be cited, but the length of time
 necessary precludes this.580
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 18:
 Aq., Sent. 4.34.1.3
 Summa 1.19.11, 12]
 578 The corresponding argument to which this is the solution actually raises only the third issue.
 579 Oddly, this point was not in fact raised at the start of this solution, and in any case it seems to
 make no sense (why should the sorceresses harm their supposed protectors?).
 580 See the anecdote in 87C.
part ii

part two of the work begins
 THE second basic part of this work is about the procedure 85D
 observed by sorcerers in inflicting acts of sorcery and is divided into
 eighteen chapters.1 There are two additional topics of difficulty, one at
 the beginningaboutpreventiveremedies(howitcanbemadeimpossible
 for someone to be affected by sorcery),2 the second3 at the end about the
 remedies that break acts of sorcery and that can remedy those affected
 by sorcery (according to the Philosopher in Physics,Bk.4 [8.4] the agent
 that removes and the one that prohibits go together and are incidental
 causes). In order, then, for the entire foundation of this horrible heresy
 to be grasped through these topics, in two basic divisions4 the focus will
 be laid, first, on the sorceresses’ initiation and their sacrilegious avowal;5
 second, on their advance in the method of working and their horrible 86A
 procedure;6 and, third, on wholesome impediments against their acts of
 sorcery and on preventative remedies.7 We are now laboring at subject
 matter involving morality, and for this reason it is not necessary to dwell
 on various arguments and explanations everywhere,8 since the topics
 that will follow in the chapters have been sufficiently discussed in the
 preceding questions. Therefore, we beseech the reader in the name of
 God not to ask for an explanation for all matters, when suitable likeli
hood is sufficient if facts that are generally agreed to be true either on
 the basis of one’s own experience from seeing or hearing or on the basis
 of the accounts given by trustworthy witnesses are adduced.
 1 Note how the introduction here seems to assume that Q. 1 of this part is the sole content. In
 particular, the second difficulty noted in the next sentence is said to appear at the “end” of this
 “basic part of the work,” but it in fact appears at the start of Q. 2.
 2 86B–92D.
 3 152B–158C.
 4 These two divisions are Qs. 1 and 2 of this part; in the immediately following description of this
 twofold division, Q. 1 is itself divided into two sections.
 5 Q. 1, Chs. 2–4 (95D–111C).
 6 Q. 1, Chs. 5–18 (111C–152A).
 7 Q. 2 (152A–184A). Here there seems to be further evidence that Q. 2 was not originally meant
 to be paired with Q. 1 in a single “part.” We are told that there will be emphasis on two topics,
 but three are listed. Whereas the first two topics do give the overall content of Q. 1, the third
 represents Q. 2. Presumably, the reference to this third topic was added in after the decision was
 made to fuse the originally independent Qs. 1 and 2, but the correction of the “two” into “three”
 topics was inadvertently neglected.
 8 Forthemostpart,thispartoftheworkdispenseswiththefullformalitiesofthedisputedquestion;
 the fact that this is excused on the grounds that the matter is one of “morality” presumably
 means that this material does not need the rigorous proof demanded by scholastic theology (as
 was the case with the theoretical issues of Pt. 1) and can instead be handled with a more discursive
 treatment.
262
 The Hammer of Witches 86A–C
 86B
 86C
 In thefirst division,9 two points will be discussed primarily. The first10
 is thevariousmethodsbywhichthedemonenticestheinnocent,andsec
ondthevarious methodsofavowingthisheresy. Inthesecond, six points
 regardingthemethodofproceedingandhealingwillbediscussed.11 First,
 the practices of sorceresses regarding themselves and their bodies will be
 treated;12 second, their works toward other humans;13 third, their works
 towards beasts;14 fourth, the harm they inflict on the fruits of the earth;15
 f
 ifth, the sorcery of men alone, that is, the acts of sorcery that only men
 and not women engage in;16 and, sixth, the question of the breaking of
 acts of sorcery17 and the methods by which those affected by sorcery are
 healed.18 The first question, then, is divided into eighteen chapters, since
 in their rites they are distinguished in many categories by that number
 of methods.
 [TT]WHETHERsomeone canbesobenefitedbygoodangelsthat
 he cannot be affected with sorcery by sorceresses in any of the methods
 described below.19
 [AG]Itseemsthathecannot,becauseitwasexplainedintheforegoing
 that even the blameless, the innocent and the righteous are very often
 afflicted by demons. For instance, Job, the very many innocent children
 who can be seen to be affected by sorcery, and many other righteous
 people were affected like this. They were not affected in the same way
 as sinners, however, because this does not result in the loss of their souls
 throughdamnation,thoughtheyareafflictedintermsofthegoodthings
 of fortune and body.
 [SC] To the contrary is the sorceresses’ confession that they cannot
 harmeveryone but only those whom they perceive through information
 from demons to be bereft of divine help.
 [CO] Response. There are three kinds of people who are benefited
 by God and whom that very bad sort cannot harm with their acts of
 9 I.e., Q. 1.
 10 Ch. 1 (92D–95C).
 11 See 91A–C for another description of the chapters of Q. 1.
 12 Chs. 2–5 (95D–115A).
 13 Chs. 6–13 (115A–141D).
 14 Ch. 14 (142A–144C).
 15 Ch. 15 (144C–147A).
 16 Chs. 16–18 (147A–152A).
 17 The initial “difficulty” of Q. 2 (152A–158D).
 18 The chapters of Q. 2 (158D–184A).
 19 This is the first “difficulty,” as laid out in 85D.
Part II 86C–87A
 263
 sorcery. The first are those who carry out public justice against sorcerers
 or engage in some public office against them. The second are those who
 protect themselves with the rites maintained and revered by the Church,
 like the sprinkling of Holy Water, the eating of Holy Salt, and the lawful
 use of candles consecrated on the Day of Purification20 or of fronds
 consecrated on Palm Sunday, since the Church exorcizes such things for
 the purpose of lessening the strength of the demons (an explanation of
 the methods will be given). The third are those who are benefited by
 holy angels in countless different ways.
 About the first group, an explanation is given and is corroborated
 by various acts and events. Because every power derives from God and
 carries the sword, according to the Apostle [Romans 13:4], to punish
 the evil and repay the good, it is no wonder that in that case demons 86D
 are warded off by the power of angels at the moment when justice
 is carried out to punish that horrible crime. To the same effect, the
 Doctors note that the power of the demon is impeded in five ways, in
 whole or in part. The first way is through a limit set on his power by
 God, as is stated of Job (Job 1[:12] and 2[:6]) and of the man about
 whom one reads in the Ant Hill of Nider [5.3]. This man confessed to
 a judge that when someone had called upon him to rob his enemy of
 life or to harm him in body or to kill him with a lightning bolt, “after
 I had summoned a demon in order to commit such acts with his help,
 he answered to me that he could do neither. ‘He has,’ he said, ‘good
 faith and conscientiously protects himself with the Sign of the Cross.
 Therefore, I cannot harm him in body, but if you want, I can do so
 in one eleventh of his fruits in the field.’” The second way is when
 the Devil’s power is impeded with an impediment applied externally, as
 in the case of the she-donkey of Balaam (Numbers 22[:22–27]).21 The
 third is when he is impeded by a miracle of impossibility performed
 externally. There are also those who are benefited with an individual
 privilege, and about this (the third kind of human who cannot be 87A
 affected bysorcery)anexplanationwilllaterbegivenbelow.22 Thefourth
 is through the judgmentofGod,Whomakesanindividualarrangement
 20 The Feast of the Purification took place forty days after the Nativity (Feb. 2). Strictly speaking
 the feast referred to the purification undergone by Mary according to Jewish custom in order to
 cleanse her of the pollution of childbirth; this day was also the occasion for the Presentation of
 Jesus at the Temple in Jerusalem (Luke 2:22). In the Middle Ages, candles figured prominently
 in this holiday, and for this reason it is also known as “Candlemas” in English.
 21 When Balaam rode a she-donkey on a journey, God got angry and had an angel obstruct the
 donkey, who turned aside to avoid him.
 22 89A–91A.
264
 The Hammer of Witches 87A–B
 through the obstacle of a good angel, as in the case of Asmodaeus’ killing
 of the virgin Sarah’s fianc´ es but not Tobias.23 The fifth way is through
 occasional instances of precaution on the demon’s own part. Sometimes,
 theDevildoesnotwishtocauseharminorderthatworsemayfollow.For
 instance, while hecouldharasstheexcommunicated,liketheCorinthian
 excommunicate whom he harassed ([1] Cor. 5[:5]), he does not do so
 in order to undermine faith in the Church regarding the Power of the
 Keys.24 Accordingly, by similar reasoning, we can also say that even if the
 demons are not warded off by divine power when public justice is being
 carried out, still they often willingly withhold their hand or protection
 from the sorceresses, either because they fear their conversion or because
 they desire and are hastening their damnation.
 87B
 These statements are corroborated by acts and events. For the Doctor
 mentioned above also reports that sorcerers gave witness both by word
 and by experience that on the very day on which they are arrested by
 the officials of state justice, all the power of the sorcerers is imme
diately broken. Hence, when a certain judge named Peter, who was
 mentioned above,25 wished to have his servants seize a certain sorcerer
 named Stadlin,26 such trembling was instilled in their hands and such
 an evil stench entered their nostrils that he pretty much gave up hope
 of their having the boldness to set upon the sorcerer. When the judge
 gave them the order, “Set upon the wretch without worry because when
 23 This story, which is alluded to several times and obviously gave much support to the notions
 of Satan’s power, deserves to be described at some length. During the Babylonian Captivity, a
 Jew named Tobias (sometimes Tobit in the English version) adheres piously to the dictates of
 his religion but is afflicted with blindness and prays to God for a peaceful death. Meanwhile, in
 another town, Sarah the daughter of Raguel has lost seven bridegrooms at the hands of a demon
 (Asmodaeus) andvaguely asks Godforanendtohermisfortunes.Godgrantsbothrequests, and
 when Tobias sends his son of the same name to collect a debt in a distant town, the son finds a
 hearty youth to serve as his companion, and this companion turns out to be Raphael, the angel
 of God. On the journey, Tobias the younger catches a big fish and the companion tells him to
 keep its heart, gall bladder and liver because these will repel a demon with their smoke when put
 onhotcoals. Raphael then takes Tobias to spend the night at Raguel’s house, advising him to ask
 for Raguel’s daughter as his wife. When Tobias demurs since he knows of Sarah’s success with
 bridegrooms, Raphael reminds him of the fish guts. When Tobias eventually spends the night
 (in prayer) with Sarah, he casts the organs on the fire, and Raphael duly restrains the demon in
 Upper Egypt. At dawnafter the first night that Tobias and Sarah spend together, Raguel actually
 has a grave dug in preparation for Tobias’s burial and is astonished to find him alive.
 24 For a discussion of the “power of the keys,” see n. 487.
 25 Judge Peter is not previously mentioned by name, but the questioning of Stadlin cited in 86D
 was conducted by him. This man was bailiff of the High Simmen Valley, a territory ruled by the
 city of Berne. Several men with this first name were bailiffs of the area between 1389–91, when
 the area was annexed by Berne, and the late 1430s, when Nider edited the Ant Hill, our sole
 source for Peter’s investigation of sorcery, but there is no known evidence to distinguish which
 is Nider’s informant.
 26 A story relating to this Stadlin is also told in 145B–C.
Part II 87B–D
 265
 he is touched by public justice, he will lose all the strength of his evil,”
 the outcome of the matter proved this. For he was arrested and burned
 to ashes because of the many acts of sorcery committed by him (these
 are set out in various places here and there, being suitable for assorted
 topics).
 If it were useful to recount the many events that happened to us27
 as we labored in the Office of the Inquisition, the mind of the reader
 wouldcertainlybeinspiredtoastonishment,butsincepraiseinone’sown
 mouth is tawdry,28 it would be best to pass them over in silence rather
 than incur censure for vain boasting. An exception, however, is made for
 those events that were brought to the light of day by God, because they
 cannot be concealed. In the town of Ravensburg, sorceresses who were 87C
 to be burned to ashes were being questioned by the chief magistrates
 as to why they had not inflicted acts of sorcery on us as they had on
 other humans, and they answered that, although they had tried to do so
 manytimes, they were unable to. When the magistrates asked about the
 reason, they answered that they knew only that this was the information
 that they had received from the demons. We are incapable of relating
 howmanytimestheyharassedusbynightandbyday,disturbinguswith
 their shouts and insults, now as monkeys, now as bitches and she-goats!
 Whenwegotupatnightforprayers(howeverlackingindevotion),29 we
 found them outside the window of the place (which was so high up that
 someone could have reached it only with a very long ladder) sticking
 pins into their linen headdresses with very heavy blows that seemingly
 struck their heads directly, as if their intention was to insert the pins into
 our heads by magical art. But praise be to the All-Highest, Who, by His
 piety and in the absence of acts earning merit on our part, saved us as
 the unworthy public servants of the justice of the Faith.
 Regarding the second group,30 the explanation is self-evident. This 87D
 is the reason why they are exorcized by the Church, and the remedies
 for preserving oneself from the onslaughts of the sorceresses are very
 effective in every way. If it is asked by what method someone should
 protect himself, something should be said first about the elements that
 do not involve the tying on of Holy Words31 and then about the holy
 chants.
 27 Plural for singular, Institoris being most likely meant.
 28 This is a common medieval aphorism.
 29 False humility.
 30 I.e., those protected by the rites of the church (86C).
 31 I.e., tying onto clothing something bearing a sacred text (see 88D).
266
 The Hammer of Witches 87D–88B
 Regarding the first, it is lawful to sprinkle with Holy Water any
 respectable places of humans and of domestic animals with the invo
cation of the Most Holy Trinity and with the Lord’s Prayer in order to
 save the humans anddomestic animals. This is what one says in an exor
cism in order that whatever place is sprinkled with the water should lack
 all uncleanness and be freed from harm, that no baneful spirit should
 reside there, and so on. For according to the prophet [Psalm 35:6] the
 Lord saves humans and domestic animals, each one in proportion to his
 measure.
 88A
 88B
 The second method. In the second method (lighting a Blessed Wax
 Taper) it is appropriate to sprinkle the places of inhabitation with such
 a wax taper, just as this was a necessity in the first method.
 Third, it is very useful to attach blessed plants or fumigate with
 them, or to join them to the inhabitants in some hidden place. For the
 following event took place in the city of Speyer in the very year in which
 this book was begun.32 A devout woman exchanged quarrelsome words
 with a suspected sorceress in the manner of womenfolk, who upbraid
 one another. That night, when she wanted to place her little one who
 was nursing in the crib and reviewed in her mind the things she had
 done during day with the sorceress, she was apprehensive of the danger
 to the boy and put blessed plants under him, sprinkled him with Holy
 Water, put a little exorcized salt in his mouth, protected him with the
 Sign of the Cross and tied him carefully to the crib. Behold, around
 midnight she heard the boy crying, and when she wished, as was her
 habit, to caress the boy and to move the crib, which had been placed
 high up near the bed, she did move the crib but could not caress the
 boy because he was gone. Trembling in her great distress at the loss of
 the boy, the poor woman lit a candle and found the little one crying in
 the corner under the bed but without harm.
 In this matter one can consider the power that the exorcisms of the
 Church possess against the treachery of the Devil. It is also crystal clear
 that the mercy and wisdom of Almighty God, which “touches strongly
 from beginning to end,” does in fact “concordantly arrange” [Wisdom
 8:1] the acts of sorcery of these very bad people and the demons, so that
 when they seek to undermine and weaken the Faith, they strengthen it
 in the hearts of many and make it take root more firmly. For evil acts
 of this kind result in many advantages for the faithful when in this way
 the Faith is made stronger, the evil of the demon is seen, the mercy
 32 I.e., 1485.
Part II 88B–D
 267
 and power of God is made manifest, and humans are set in action to
 protect themselves and are inflamed with the desire to revere the Passion
 of Christ and the ceremonies of the Church.
 During those days, the superintendent33 of a certain village named
 Wiesental was affected through sorcery with very severe pains and dis
locations of the body and was taught not so much by other sorcerers as
 by his own experience that this had happened to him through acts of 88C
 sorcery. He said that it was his custom to protect himself every Sunday
 by consuming Holy Salt and Water, and that when he neglected to do
 so because of the celebration of a wedding, on the very same day he was
 affected by sorcery.
 What of the man in Ravensburg, who was importuned to commit
 the carnal act by the Devil in the shape of a woman? Being very worried
 when the Devil refused to stop, he got the idea that he ought to protect
 himself by eating salt as he had heard during a sermon. Then, after he
 had eaten Holy Salt at the entrance to the bedroom, the woman looked
 at him with a savage expression and suddenly disappeared, reproaching
 whichever of the devils had informed him of this. In this case, the Devil
 was there, either himself in the form of a sorceress or with the bodily
 presence of the sorceress, since he can do both with God’s permission.34
 There were also the three fellows walking down a road. Two of them
 were struck by a bolt of lightning, and when the terrified third one heard
 voices shouting in the air, “Let’s strike him, too!” he heard another 88D
 respond, “We can’t do that because today the Word was made flesh
 [John 1:15].” The man understood that he had been preserved because
 he had attended Mass and at the end of it had heard the words from
 the Gospel of John [1:1], “In the beginning was the Word and” and
 so on.
 Another method is through Holy Words attached to the body, since
 they have a miraculous ability to save so long as seven conditions are
 maintained in connection with them. (These will be mentioned in the
 last question of the present Part Two,35 because there the remedies for
 healing will be treated just as the ones for rescuing are here.) These Holy
 Words serve not only to rescue but also to heal those who have been
 33 GermanSchultheis,theheadofmunicipaladministrationappointedbythesovereign,incontrast
 to a B¨ urgermeister elected by the citizens. Since Wiesental lay beside a residence of the bishops
 of Speyer, presumably he would have appointed this administrator.
 34 I.e., either it was a demon inanassumedbodypretendingtobeasorceressorthewomanactually
 was a sorceress who had been brought there by a demon.
 35 I.e., Q. 2, Ch. 6 (170D–179A).
268
 The Hammer of Witches 88D–89B
 89A
 89B
 affected by sorcery. Words with a particular ability to rescue the places of
 humans and domestic animals are the Triumphal Title36 of Our Savior,
 “Iesus+Nazarenus+Rex+Iudeorum”[“Jesus+ofNazareth+King+
 of the Jews”], so long as they are inscribed in the manner of a cross on
 four sides of the place, or if the name of the Virgin Mary or of the
 Evangelists or the words of John, “The Word was made flesh” are added.
 The third kind of people who cannot be harmed by sorceresses is
 very particular, in that they are protected inside and outside by a special
 guardofangels:insidethroughtheinfusionofGrace,outsidethroughthe
 protection of the heavenly forces, that is, of the movers of the heavenly
 spheres. This kind is split into two categories of the Elect, in that they are
 either protected against all kinds of acts of sorcery, so that they cannot
 be harmed in any regard, or are made pure in terms of the power to
 procreate by these good angels in the same way that evil spirits use their
 acts of sorcery either to inflame certain evil men about one woman or
 to make them cold about another.
 First, the explanation about the internal and external protection in
 terms of Grace and of the influences of the heavenly bodies is as fol
lows. Although God infuses Grace into our mind by Himself, so that no
 creature’s power can extend to an infusion of this sort according to the
 passage “Grace and glory the Lord will give” [Ps 83:12], nonetheless by
 means of giving an inclination, as St. Thomas tells us in some passage
 on Pronouncements,Bk.3, a good angel co-operates, when God wishes,
 to infuse some noteworthy Grace.37 This is what Dionysius asserts: “It
 is immovably fixed as a law of divinity, that the lowest things are com
pleted by the highest ones through the agency of the middle ones”
 (Divine Names, Ch. 4 [actually, Divine Hierarchy 4.3]). Hence, whatever
 good flows into us from the fount of all goodness we have through the
 assistance of good angels.
 Let us give illustrations with explanations. Although only the divine
 power was effectively present for the conception of the Word of God
 in the Most Blessed Virgin Mary, through whom God was made man,
 nonetheless by the assistance of angels the mind of the Virgin was greatly
 impelled or predisposed to good by their salutation38 and by their con
f
 irming and instructing her intellect. The explanation is that it is also
 36 I.e., the words on the placard stating Jesus’ crimes that was attached to the cross by Pontius
 Pilate’s order (Mark 15:25, Luke 23:38, John 19:19).
 37 The vague quote comes from Nider, who perhaps has Sent. 2.11.1.1.Ra2 in mind (“grace and
 glory,” though not the explicit citation of Psalm 83, appear there).
 38 I.e., the “greeting” in Luke 1:28, which gave rise to the “Hail, Mary.”
Part II 89B–90A
 269
 the opinion of the Doctor mentioned above that in man there are, as
 we see, three elements: the will, the intellect, and the other internal 89C
 and external powers attached to the limbs and organs of the body. Upon
 the first only God has the power to act, because “The heart of the king
 is in the hand of the Lord” [Prov. 21:1]. A good angel can do so in the
 manner of giving an inclination, in that he can give the intellect more
 enlightenment to recognize what is true and good, so that upon the
 second both God and the good angel can act through the giving of
 enlightenment. The good angel can likewise act upon the third for the
 good, and though the evil angel can, with God’s permission, send in evil
 impressions, it is nonetheless in the power of the human will to accept
 or reject such impressions when they have been made, since a man can
 always repel them through the invocation of God’s Grace.
 Regarding theexternal guard, which is shared out byGodthroughthe
 movers of the spheres, it is the common teaching and the one more in
 keeping with both theology and natural philosophy,39 that all the heav
enly bodies are moved by the virtue of angels, who are called the movers
 of the spheres.40 They are named the Virtues of Heaven by Christ and
 the Church, and consequently all the bodies of this world are governed 89D
 by the heavenly influences, as the Philosopher attests (Meteora,Bk. 1
 [actually, Metaphysics]). For this reason, we can also say that since God
 exercises a particular providence over His Elect, although He subordi
nates certain people to the evils (penalties) of this life, He still rescues
 certain people, so that they can be harmed in no regard. They receive
 this gift either from the good angels delegated to guard them by God
 or as a result of the influences of the heavenly bodies (the movers of the
 spheres).
 It shouldbefurthernotedthatwhilesomepeopleareprotectedagainst
 all acts of sorcery and others are protected against some acts and not
 against all of them, there are some who are particularly made so chaste
 by the angels in terms of the power to procreate that in that power the
 evil ones cannot affect them in any way through sorcery. To write about
 these people seems to be partly redundant, though it would be partly
 necessary on account of the fact that those who are affected by sorcery
 in terms of the power to procreate are bereft of the guard of angels either
 because they are always in mortal sin or because they pursue these 90A
 disgusting acts for the sake of an extremely debauched desire, and for
 39 “Natural philosophy” was the term for what we would call “science,” a term that acquired its
 modern sense only in the eighteenth century.
 40 See Pt. 1 n. 278.
270
 The Hammer of Witches 90A–C
 this reason, as was also discussed in Part One of the work,41 God gives
 more permission for that power to be affected by sorcery, not only on
 account ofits baseness but also onaccountofthefactthatthecorruption
 of the First Ancestor is passed on to the whole human race under the
 rubric of original contamination.
 Let us say a few words about how a good angel at times benefits
 righteous and holy men, especially in terms of the force to procreate.
 This is what happened to St. Serenus the Abbot, about whom Cassian
 tells a story in the Conferences with the Fathers (First Conference, about
 Abbot Serenus [7.2]). “Hence, in light of his internal chastity of heart
 and soul, he devoted himself unflaggingly to prayers by night and day,
 and also to fasts and vigils, and in the end he perceived that through
 divine Grace he had extinguished all the roilings of carnal lusting in
 him. Then, being kindled with a greater zeal for chastity, he used the
 aforementioned remedies and prayed to God that the chastity of the
 inner man should spill over into the body by God’s gift. Eventually,
 90B
 90C
 an angel came to him in a vision at night, and seemingly opening his
 stomach, the angel wrenched a burning lump of flesh from his guts and
 returned all his intestines to their place, just as they had been. ‘Look,’
 he said, ‘the parts of your flesh that incite have been cut out. Be advised
 that today you have obtained constant purity of body in accordance
 with the prayer in which you asked that you should no longer by buf
feted by the natural impulse that is roused even in little ones who are
 nursing.”’
 St. Gregory says the same about St. Equitius the Abbot (Dialogues,
 Bk. 1 [actually, 4.1]). “When in the days of his youth the parts of the flesh
 that incite were wearing him downinabitter struggle, the very difficulty
 of his temptation made him more adroit at pursuing prayer. When in
 this matter he was constantly praying to seek a remedy from Almighty
 God, one night he saw himself being castrated through the presence of
 an angel, and in his dream it seemed that this angel was cutting out all
 movement from his genital organs. From that time on he was averse to
 temptation, just as if he did not have a sex in his body.” Behold how
 great a benefit it is to be made chaste! Relying on this virtue, with the
 help of God he later came to be put in charge of women, just as he had
 previously been in charge of men.
 In the Lives of the Fathers which St. Heraclides, a most religious
 man, collected in the book that he names Paradise, he has a similar story
 41 46C–D.
Part II 90C–91A
 271
 about a certain holy father and monk whom he calls Elijah. Moved
 by mercy, Elijah gathered three hundred women in a monastery and
 began to govern them. After two years, however, when he was thirty
f
 ive years old, he was tempted by the flesh and fled to the wilderness.
 There he fasted for two days, praying, “Lord God, either kill me or
 free me from this temptation.” At dusk a dream crept upon him, and
 he saw three angels come to him. When they asked why he had fled
 from the monastery of nuns, and he did not dare to answer for shame,
 the angels said, “If you are freed, will you return and look after the
 women?” He answered that he would readily do so. Then, after receiv
ing from him the oath that they demanded, they castrated him. One 90D
 seemed to cut off his hands with a razor, the second his feet, and the
 third his testicles, not that this really happened but it seemed to. When
 they asked if he felt the remedy, he answered that he felt a very great
 relief. Five days later, he returned to the grieving women, and for the
 forty more years that he lived, he felt not even a glimmer of his old
 temptation.
 WereadthatnolessabenefitwasbestowedonSt.Thomas,theDoctor
 belonging to our Order.42 He was imprisoned by his relatives for having
 entered this Order and was tempted by means of a prostitute seducing
 him back to the secular world. She had been sent in by his relatives
 wearing the most elegant clothing and adornment. When the Doctor
 saw her, he rushed for something burning, snatched a lit firebrand and
 sent flying from the prison this woman who was offering burning lust.
 Immediately falling on the ground to pray for chastity, he fell asleep.
 At this point, two angels appeared to him, saying, “Behold, on God’s
 behalf we are girding you with a belt of chastity which from now on 91A
 cannot be undone by anyassault. What is not acquired by human virtue
 through acts of merit is bestowed as a gift on God’s part.” He then felt
 the girding, that is, the touch of the girding, and woke up with a shout.
 Afterwards, he felt that he had been made a present of so great a gift
 of chastity that from that time on he shunned all debauchery, and for
 this reason he could speak to women only by necessity and instead was
 mighty in his perfect chastity.
 This material is from Nider’s Ant Hill.43
 With the exception, then, of these three kinds of men, no one is safe
 from sorcerers’ using the eighteen methods described below either to
 42 Aquinas was a Dominican.
 43 I.e., the stories of Serenus, Equitius, Elijah and Aquinas.
272
 The Hammer of Witches 91A–C
 91B
 91C
 affect them with sorcery or to tempt and urge them to commitsorcery.44
 First, these ways are to be treated in order, so that the subsequent discus
sion of the remedies by which those affected by sorcery can be relieved
 will be that much clearer, and in order that the explanation of these
 eighteen methods will be that much clearer, they will be treated in as
 manychapters. First, concerning the initiation of sorceresses, the various
 methods by which sorceresses allure young girls to increase this sort of
 faithlessness will be explained. Second, the method by which they make
 their sacrilegious avowal, at which point they are also prevailed upon
 to make a certain declaration rendering homage to the Devil. Third,
 the method by which they are transported in location, either in body
 or spirit. Fourth, the method by which they subordinate themselves to
 incubus demons. Fifth, the general method by which they practice their
 acts of sorcery through the Sacraments of the Church, and that method
 in particular by which, with God’s permission, they regularly taint any
 creations at all, with the exception of the heavenly bodies. Sixth, the
 method by which they impede the power to procreate. Seventh, the
 methodbywhichtheyremovemalemembersthroughtheart of conjur
ing. Eighth, the methodbywhichtheyturnhumansintotheappearance
 of animals. Ninth, the methodbywhichdemonsexistinsideheadswith
out harm whenthey work appearances of conjuring. Tenth, the method
 by which demons sometimes inhabit humans in substance through the
 working of sorceresses. Eleventh, the method by which they inflict every
 kind of illness (in general). Twelfth, concerning certain illnesses (in par
ticular). Thirteenth, the method by which midwife sorceresses inflict
 greater losses by killing babies or by offering them to demons through
 execration. Fourteenth, the methodbywhichtheyinflictvariousinjuries
 on domestic animals. Fifteenth, the method by which they stir up hail
 and rain storms and bring lightning bolts down on humans and domes
tic animals. Sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth, the three ways in
 which men and not women engage in acts of sorcery. After these top
ics there will follow a question on the ways of breaking such spells of
 sorcery.45
 Let nooneimagineatallthatwhenthesevariousmethodsofinflicting
 various acts of sorcery are recounted, he acquires a knowledge of them.
 For this would not be very useful, and indeed it could even be harmful.
 44 With the following list of the individual chapters, compare the broader description of this
 material in 86A–B.
 45 This is the second “difficulty” mentioned in 85D (referring to 152–158C) rather than Q. 2 of
 Pt. ii.
Part II 91C–92A
 273
 The prohibited books of nigromancy are not included here, since the
 presentkindofsuperstitionisnotperformedwithbooksorbythelearned
 but by the altogether ignorant.46 It has a single foundation, and since
 this foundation is not expressed or demonstrated, it would beimpossible
 for someone to engage in acts of sorcery as a sorcerer. The methods are, 91D
 however, related in a superficial manner in order that their works should
 not seem unbelievable, as has been the case up until now, which has
 resulted in great insult to the Faith and in the increase in number of the
 sorcerers.
 If, on the basis of the foregoing, where it was said that certain people
 are rescued through the influences of the heavenly bodies so that they
 can in no way be affected by sorcery, someone also wishes to ascribe to
 those influences situations where some people are affected by sorcery, as
 if there existed some necessity either to be rescued from acts of sorcery
 or to be tainted by them, such a person would not properly grasp the
 meaning of the Doctors in several respects.
 First, there are three things that can be guided by heavenly causes,
 namely acts of the will, acts of the intellect, and bodily things, the first
 being directly guided by God, as was discussed above,47 the second by
 an angel, and the third by a heavenly body (though it is guided and not
 compelled).
 Second, since it is obvious on the basis of the previous statements
 that people’s choices and wills are guided directly by God according 92A
 to the Apostle (“It is God Who works in us the act of forming the
 will and of fulfilling it in light of His good will.” [Phil. 2:13]), and
 recognition by the human intellect is ordained by God through the
 intervention of the angels, therefore, any aspects of the body at all,
 whether internal, like virtues and kinds of knowledge acquired through
 internal bodily powers, or external, like varieties of health or illnesses,
 are also distributed by the heavenly bodies through the intervention of
 the angels. Dionysius discusses this in Chapter Four of Divine Names
 [4.2], saying that the heavenly bodies are the causes of the things that
 happen in this world. Yet, these statements should be understood in
 terms of natural forms of health and illness, and since the forms of
 illness in question are supernatural, resulting from the demon’s power
 that inflicts them with God’s permission, we cannot say that someone’s
 being affected by sorcery happens as a result of the influences of the
 46 Here, a clear distinction is made between traditional folk magic as practiced by peasants and
 the sort of “learned” sorcery associated with misguided clerics.
 47 33B.
274
 The Hammer of Witches 92A–C
 92B
 92C
 heavenly bodies in the same way that it can be properly said that the
 impossibility of someone being affected by sorcery is the result of the
 influences of the heavenly bodies.
 If it is said that opposite phenomena have to take place in relation
 to the same thing and that an opposite exists in what is opposed,
 just as a proposition exists in what is proposed,48 the response is that
 when someone is rescued from these supernatural forms of illness, this
 is not done directly by the virtue of the heavenly bodies but by the
 virtue of angels, which can strengthen that influence, so that the Enemy
 could not prevail over it with his acts of sorcery. This angelic virtue
 may be derived from the mover of a heavenly sphere. For instance,
 if right now someone ought to die in his natural course of life, God,
 Who always performs works of this kind through intermediary causes,
 can change this by His power, introducing a rescuing virtue in place of
 the defective virtue of nature and its influence. Thus, we can say of a
 person who could be affected with sorcery that he is also rescued from
 acts of sorcery in this way. Or such rescuing is carried out by an angel
 delegated to act as a guard, which is the highest form of guarding of
 them all.
 What is stated in Jeremiah 22[:30] (“Write that the man who does
 not prosper in his days is sterile”) is understood in terms of the choices
 of the will, in which one man is made to prosper and another is not.
 This can also happen as a result of the influences of the heavenly bodies.
 For example, as a result of an impression caused by the heavenly bodies,
 someone is made prone to certain beneficial choices, like adopting a
 religious vow or the like. When his intellect is enlightened to do these
 things from the light of an angel and his will is made prone to fulfill
 this as a result of God’s working, it is said that such a man enjoys good
 prosperity. Another example is when someone is made prone to practice
 some art or something beneficial. Conversely, he will be said to be ill
 fortuned when, as a result of higher causes, his choice is made prone to
 48 The phrase “a proposition exists in what is proposed” is used in an effort to retain something
 of the jingle in the Latin (which is clearly an aphorism of scholastic logic), though the sense
 is “an assertion exists in what is asserted.” The point is that something called an opposite is
 defined bywhatisconsidered to be its opposite in the same way that a statement is defined by its
 predicate. Hence, if it is argued that the ability of something to avoid illness can be determined
 by the heavenly bodies, then, since the opposite quality would be susceptibility to illness and
 opposites relate to a single phenomenon, it should follow that the heavenly bodies should also
 be able to induce illness. The (not very convincing) retort is that the heavenly bodies do not
 precisely grant immunity to sorcery but merely grant a tendency in this direction which must
 be “heightened” through the action of good angels. The necessary corollary of this, of course, is
 that such a tendency can likewise be overridden by “evil angels,” i.e., demons.
Part II 92C–93A
 275
 the opposite things. Regarding these and many other pronouncements,
 St. Thomas describes in Summa Against the Gentiles,Bk. 3 [3.92] and
 in a number of other places what the difference is in calling someone
 well or ill born, well or ill fortuned, well or ill governed and guarded.
 Someone is said to be well or ill born or well or ill fortuned as a result
 of the inclination left behind by a heavenly body. Insofar as someone 92D
 is enlightened by an angel, he is said to be well and not ill guarded
 in the situation where he follows the enlightenment, and insofar as he
 is enlightened by God to the good and carries it out, he is called well
 governed.
 Such choices are not relevant here, however, since we are treating
 not them but rescue from the infliction of acts of sorcery. About this
 rescuingletit sufficeforthepresenttotakeupthetopicoftheceremonies
 practiced by the sorceresses. First, the methods by which they entice the
 innocent to their breach of the Faith.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Introduction:
 Nider, Form. 5.4, 5, 6
 Praec. 1.11, 36, 36]
 on the different methods by which
 demons allure and entice the innocent
 through sorceresses to increase this form of
 breaking the faith
 Chapter One
 THERE are three methods that the demons use more than the
 others to overturn the innocent through sorceresses and as a result of
 which that form of breach of the Faith is constantly increased. The first
 is the exhaustion that results from them relentlessly causing losses in 93A
 temporal matters. As St. Gregory says,49 the Devil tempts repeatedly in
 order that the feeling of exhaustion at least should make him victori
ous. You50 should understand that this temptation does not surpass the
 strength of the one tempted. As for the divine permission, explain that
 GodgivesHispermissionsothathumanswillnotgrowsluggishthrough
 49 Original source unknown, but the quote comes from Antoninus, Summa 1.6.13.4.
 50 The imagined reader is conceived of as a potential preacher to whom directions are given.
276
 The Hammer of Witches 93A–C
 laziness. In token of this it is said, “The reason why God did not destroy
 these races was in order that he might educate Israel with them” (Judges
 2).51 This passage is speaking of the neighboring Canaanite, Jebusite
 and other nations,52 and in the present day the Hussites53 and other
 heretics are given permission, so that they cannot be destroyed. Thus,
 the demons use the sorceresses to afflict the neighbors of the sorceresses
 and the innocent with losses in temporal matters that are so great that
 as if under compulsion the neighbors must first beg for the help of the
 sorceresses and finally submit to their advice.
 93B
 93C
 Experience has often taught us this. We know an inn-keeper in the
 diocese of Augsburg who within one year had forty-four horses affected
 with sorcery, one after the other. Being afflicted with the feeling of
 exhaustion, his wife consulted sorceresses. By following their advice,
 which was clearly not wholesome, she rescued the other horses that he
 had subsequently bought since he was a haulier.54 When we were in the
 OfficeoftheInquisition, howmanywomencomplainedtousthatwhen
 they had consulted suspected sorceresses because of losses inflicted on
 cows though the deprivation of milk and on other domestic animals,55
 they heard remedies offered on the condition that they were willing to
 makesomepromisetoaspirit! Whentheyaskedwhatpromisehadtobe
 made, the sorceresses answered that it was not much. The women just
 hadtoagreetofollowtheMaster’sinstructionsaboutcertainobservances
 during Divine Service in church or to keep silent about certain things
 when making Confession to priests. Here it should be noted that, as
 was discussed above, the infamous Contriver of a Thousand Deceits56
 begins with a few trivial matters, like spitting on the ground or closing
 one’s eyes at the Elevation of the Body of Christ,57 or uttering some
 unsalutary58 words.Forinstance,weknowthatwhenthepriestgreetsthe
 congregation during the solemn rites of the Mass by saying, “The Lord
 51 The quotation is actually a paraphrase of Judges 2:2–22 and 3:1.
 52 Various opponents of the Jews in the attempt to occupy the Holy Land after the exodus from
 Egypt.
 53 Jan Hus (ca. 1369–1415) was a Czech reformer who came into conflict with the church hierarchy
 and was burned at the stake at the Council of Constance in blatant violation of the Emperor’s
 safe conduct. His followers, the Hussites, continued his opposition to the church and started
 a major revolt in Bohemia during the fifteenth century. The reference here is to the Hussites’
 military victories over their Catholic opponents.
 54 I.e., a carter, someone who hauled things for people with his own horse and wagon.
 55 Note how simple folk magic is equated here with elaborated Satanism.
 56 I.e., the Devil.
 57 Theelevationofthehostasitwasconsecratedinpreparationforcommunionbecameanelement
 of the mass that received much attention from the devout during the later Middle Ages.
 58 I.e., endangering eternal salvation.
Part II 93C–94A
 277
 be with you,” the woman who still survives because of the protection of
 the secular arm,59 always adds in the vernacular, “Kehr’ mir die Zunge
 im Arsche um” [“Twirl your tongue in my ass”]. Other trivial acts are
 the uttering of similar words in Confession after Absolution has been
 granted or never making a full Confession, especially about mortal sins.
 In this way, they are gradually brought to the complete renunciation of
 the Faith and the sacrilegious avowal.
 Thismethod,aswellasanysimilarone,isapracticeusedbysorceresses
 on respectable matrons, who are less given over to carnal vices and more
 greedy for earthly benefits. But for young women, who are more given
 over to ambition and the pleasures of the body, they practice a different
 method, making use of the desires of the flesh and pleasures of the
 body.
 Here it should be noted that since the Devil’s intent and appetite are
 greater in tempting the good than the evil (although from the point of
 view of those tempted he tempts the evil more than the good, that is,
 a greater ease in accepting the temptation of the Devil is found in the
 evil than is in the good), he makes greater efforts to lead astray all the 93D
 holiest virgins and girls. Experience provides more than enough proof
 of this, and so does reason. Since he already owns the evil but not the
 good, he makes greater efforts to lead astray to his dominion the righ
teous, whom he does not own, than the evil whom he does, in the same
 way that an earthly prince rears up more against a man who derogates
 more from his rights than he does against others who do not oppose
 him.
 Experience. In the town of Ravensburg, two women were burned to
 ashes, as will be explained below where the method followed by them in
 stirring up storms is discussed,60 and the one of them who was a bath
 keeper told the following story among the other things to which she
 confessed. She endured many injuries at the hands of the Devil, because
 she had to lead astray a certain devout maiden who was the daughter of
 a certain very rich man (there is no need to name him, since she is dead,
 it having been arranged by divine mercy that evil should not make her
 heart depraved) by inviting her on some holy day, so that the demon 94A
 could engage in his sorts of conversation with her in the appearance of a
 young man. She added that although she had tried to do this very often,
 whenever she addressed the young woman, she would always protect
 herself with the Sign of the Holy Cross. No one doubts that this clearly
 59 See 49A.
 60 Ch. 15 (144C–147A).
278
 The Hammer of Witches 94A–C
 resulted from the prompting of a holy angel in order to rout the works
 of the Devil.
 94B
 94C
 Thereis anothermaideninthedioceseofStrasburg,andinconfession
 to one of us she claimed that one Sunday, when she was walking around
 alone in her father’s house, a certain old woman of that town came to
 visit her, and among the other dirty words that she uttered, she added at
 the end, that if the maiden wished, she would take her to a place where
 youngmenunknowntoallthepeopleofthattownwerestaying.“AfterI
 agreed” the maiden said, “and followed her to the house, the old woman
 added, ‘All right, we’ll go upstairs to the upper room, where the young
 men are staying, but make sure that you don’t protect yourself with the
 Sign of the Cross.’ After I claimed that I would do this, she led the way,
 and while I followed up the stairs, I secretly protected myself with the
 Sign of the Cross. What happened then is that when we both stood in
 front of the room at the top of the stairs, with a fearsome expression and
 angry demeanor the old woman turned and looked at me, saying, ‘Hey,
 curse you! Why did you cross yourself with the Sign of the Cross? In the
 name of the Devil, get out of here!’ Thus, I returned home unharmed.”
 From this story one can gather the cunning with which the Ancient Foe
 runs riot for the purpose of leading souls astray.
 The bath keeper mentioned above who was burned to ashes claimed
 that she too had been led astray like this by an old woman, but her
 companion was led astray in a different way. This companion came
 upon a demon in the appearance of a human on a road, while she was
 intending to visit her boyfriend to fornicate. She was recognized by
 the incubus demon and he asked whether she recognized him. When
 she stated that she did not recognize him at all, he answered, “I am a
 demon, and if you wish, I will always be ready for your desire, and
 I won’t abandon you in any dire straits.” She agreed to this, and for
 the next eighteen years until the end of her life, she dedicated herself
 to those filthy acts of the Devil (with a complete renunciation of the
 Faith).
 There is also a third method of alluring, by means of sadness and
 poverty. Young girls are sometimes corrupted by lovers with whom they
 have shamelessly copulated for the sake of marriage. The girls trust their
 lovers’ promises, and then when they are rejected, they are disappointed
 in their every expectation and consider themselves to be disgraced in
 every regard. At this point, they turn to61 every sort of assistance offered
 61 The Latin verb used here (convertere) suggests that this act of “turning to” is a form of religious
 “conversion.”
Part II 94C–95A
 279
 bytheDevilorplotvengeancebyaffectingwithsorcery their lover or the
 woman to whomhe has joined himself or else by subjecting themselves
 to all filthy acts. There is nocountingthenumberofsuchyoungwomen,
 as experience unfortunately teaches, and, there is likewise no counting
 the number of sorceresses who rear up from among them.
 Let us recount a few events among many. There is a place in the
 diocese of Brixen,62 and there a young man testified to such a case
 regarding his wife, who had been affected by sorcery directed against
 him.63 “I fell in love with a certain woman during my youth,” he said, 94D
 “and while she continually importuned me to join with her in marriage,
 I rejected her and took as my wife a woman from another territory. I
 nonetheless wished to please her for the sake of friendship and invited
 her to the wedding. She came, and when the other, respectable women
 were giving presents (offerings), the woman whom I had invited raised
 her hand and said in the hearing of the other women who were standing
 around,“Therewillbefewhealthydaysthatwillyouhaveafterthisone.”
 Terrified, my bride asked the by-standers who this woman was who had
 made such threats to her, since she did not recognize her, having been
 brought for marriage, as I’ve already said, from another territory. The
 other women stated that she was a lax and promiscuous woman. In any
 case, the events that she foretold ensued, and in that order– a few days
 later she was affected by sorcery, so that she lost the use of all her limbs.
 More than ten years later, the effects of this sorcery can still be seen on
 her body today.”
 If it were necessary to insert the occurrences that were found in just 95A
 the one town of that diocese, a whole book would have to be written.
 Those occurrences were written up and deposited with the Bishop of
 62 I.e., Innsbruck, where Institoris suffered a serious setback in the fall of 1485, when he tried
 to institute an inquisition into sorcery but was thwarted by local opposition. Q. 1, Ch. 12
 (134B–136D) is mainly concerned with events that were reported to him there.
 63 The following story concerns Helena Scheuberin, one of the eight women whom Institoris
 accused of being sorceresses in Innsbruck, and his recollection here is not entirely reliable. On
 Oct. 18 the supposed female victim (her name is not preserved) gave a deposition in which she
 stated that she was brought by her husband for marriage from Bavaria, and during the wedding
 festivities Scheuberin said, “You will not have many good and healthy days here.” In his Latin
 instructions for questioning Scheuberin in his absence, Institoris quotes her as having said,
 “You will not have many healthy days here.” The deponent then stated that she was healthy
 only from St. Bartholomew’s day (Aug. 24) until St. Gall’s day (presumably Nov. 1, the feast
 of the second and less famous saint of this name; the first feast of St. Gall is July 3), and that
 she was in the seventh year of her ongoing illness. On the same day (Oct. 18), the husband
 gave a deposition that he had known Scheuberin carnally but refused to marry her despite her
 willingness, conjecturing that this was the cause for the sorcery. In his instructions, Institoris
 repeats this assertion as fact, claiming that Scheuberin had had sexual relations with many men.
280
 The Hammer of Witches 95A–C
 Brixen,64 and they are certainly both astonishing and unheard of, as the
 Bishop can attest.
 95B
 95C
 Nor, we think, should another astonishing and unheard-of affair
 be passed over in silence. A certain high-born count of the land of
 Westrich65 within the territory of the diocese of Strasburg took as his
 wife a similarly high-born young woman,buthewasunabletoknowher
 carnally until the third year after the celebration of the marriage, since,
 as the upshot of the matter proved, he was hindered by an impediment
 caused through sorcery. Being worried and not knowing what to do, he
 constantly invoked the Saints of God, and one day he happened to go to
 the city of Metz to finish some business. As he was walking through the
 streets and lanes of the city surrounded byhisservants andfamily,hemet
 a certain woman who had been his concubine many years before. When
 he saw her, the farthest thing from his mind were the acts of sorcery
 inflicted on him, and unexpectedly addressed her politely because of
 the old friendship they had formed, asking her how she was doing and
 how her health was. Seeing the piety of the count, she in turn earnestly
 asked about the health of his body and his situation. When he answered
 that everything was turning out prosperously for him, she was aston
ished and fell silent for a little while. Seeing her astonishment, the count
 spoke to her somemorewithpolitewords,inviting her to a dinner party.
 When she asked about the situation of his wife, she received a similar
 answer, to the effect that she was well in all regards, and when she then
 asked whether he had fathered children, the count said, “I have three
 male children. She’s given birth to one each year.” At this she was further
 amazedandfellsilent for a while, and then thecountsaid,“Iaskyou,my
 dear, tell me why you are asking so urgently. I don’t doubt that you are
 glad for meonaccountofmygoodfortune.”Thenshesaid,“TrulyIam,
 but curse that old woman who offered to affect your body with sorcery,
 so that you could hardly perform the carnal act with your wife! As a sign
 of this, the well in the middle of your courtyard has at its bottom a jar
 that contains certain objects for sorcery, and it was placed there so that
 you would have impotence in copulating for as long as the jar remained
 there. But now look! All the things that I have been rejoicing at are in
 vain” and so on. The count did not waste a minute. Returning home,
 he had the well emptied and found the jar. After burning everything,
 he suddenly recovered the power that he had lost. Next, the Countess
 64 I.e., the depositions of witnesses were drawn up in the form of a protocol, which was left in the
 bishop’s keeping.
 65 Perhaps Westrich near Zweibr¨ ucken is meant.
Part II 95C–96A
 281
 re-invited all the noblewomen to a new wedding, stating that now she
 was the mistress of that castle and territory after having remained a
 maiden for so long. (Out of respect for the count, it would not be useful
 to mention the castle66 and territory by name. For right reason urges
 not only this but also that the essence of the deed should be revealed as
 a public indication of the repugnance felt for such a great crime.) From
 these facts are revealed the various methods followed by sorceresses for
 the increase of their lack of faith. For the woman mentioned above
 inflicted this act of sorcery on the count following the instructions of
 another sorceress after having been replaced by the count’s wife, and 95D
 this reason leads to countless effects caused through sorcery.
 there follows a discussion of the method of
 making a sacrilegious avowal
 Chapter Two
 THEmethod of making the sacrilegious avowal in connection
 with an explicit agreement for faithfulness with the demons is varied,
 inasmuch as the sorceresses themselves engage in various practices in
 the infliction of acts of sorcery. To understand this, it should first be
 noticed that while the sorceresses appear in three kinds (those who harm
 but are unable to heal, those who cure and do not harm as a result of a
 particular agreement entered into with a demon, and those who harm
 and heal), as was discussed in Part One of the treatise,67 among those
 who harm one kind is supreme, and those who belong to this kind are
 able to commit all the acts of sorcery, while the others practice only
 some each. Hence, when the method by which the former make their 96A
 avowal is described, a sufficient explanation of the other, lower varieties
 is given. It is they who, contrary to the tendency of human nature,
 indeed of all wild animals with the sole exception of wolves, devour
 and consume babies of their own kind. This is the kind that is supreme
 in practicing acts of sorcery. For it is they who have a propensity for
 all other forms of harm. It is these sorceresses who stir up hailstorms
 and harmful winds with lightning, who cause sterility in humans and
 domestic animals, whooffer to demons,aswasexplainedabove,68 orelse
 kill the babies whom they do not devour. (This concerns babies who
 66 I.e., Schloss.
 67 58C–D.
 68 64B.
282
 The Hammer of Witches 96A–C
 96B
 96C
 have not been reborn in the Font of Baptism; those that they devour
 have been reborn, as will be explained,69 but they do this only with
 God’s permission.) They also know how to cast infants who are walking
 near water into it without anyone seeing, even within the sight of their
 parents; how to make horses go crazy under their riders; how to move
 from place to place through the air, either in body or imagination;
 how to change the attitude of judges and governmental authorities so
 that they cannot harm them; how to bring about silence for themselves
 and others during torture; how to instill great trembling in the hands
 and minds of those arresting them; how to reveal hidden things and to
 foretell certain future events on the basis of information from demons,
 (i.e., those events that have some natural cause; see the question as to
 whetherdemonscanlearnoffutureeventsinadvanceinPronouncements,
 Bk. 2, Dist. 12 [actually, Sent. 2.7.2.2]); how to see absent things as if
 they were present; how to turn human minds to irregular love or hatred;
 on many occasions, how to kill someone they wish to with lightning,
 or to kill some humans and domestic animals; how to take away the
 force of procreation or the ability to copulate; how to kill infants in
 the mother’s womb with only a touch on the outside; also on occasion
 howtoaffect humans anddomestic animals with sorcery or inflict death
 uponthembysightalone without touch; and how to dedicate their own
 infants to demons. In short, when God’s justice permits such things to
 happen, these sorceresses who belong to this supreme variety know how
 to commit all these baneful deeds, while the others know how to bring
 about only some of them. The reverse, however, is not the case.70 (It
 is, however, the common practice of them all to perform filthy carnal
 acts with demons.) Accordingly, from the method of making the avowal
 used by the sorcerers who belong to the supreme variety, one can also
 easily grasp the method of the other sorceresses.
 There were such sorceresses thirty years ago71 within the territory of
 Savoy in the direction of the domain of Berne, as Nider recounts in his
 Ant Hill [5.3]. Today, they are within the territory of Lombardy in the
 direction of the domain of the duke of Austria, where the inquisitor of
 Como, as was mentioned in the preceding part,72 had forty-one sorcer
esses burned to ashes in one year (the year of Our Lord ’85), and he is
 still engaged in constant labor in the Inquisition.
 69 See 97C.
 70 Presumably, this means that they cannot commit these acts without God’s permission.
 71 Actually, Nider died in 1438, forty-eight years before the composition of the Malleus in 1486.
 72 64A.
Part II 96C–97A
 283
 There are two methods of making the avowal. One is a ceremonial
 way similar to a ceremonial vow. The other is a private one that can
 be made to a demon individually at any hour.73 The ceremonial one is
 carried out among themwhenthesorceresses cometoacertain assembly
 on a fixed day and see the demon in the assumed guise of a human as
 he urges them to keep their faith to him, which would be accompanied
 by prosperity in temporal matters and longevity of life.74 The women
 who are in attendance commend to him the female novice who is to
 be accepted, and then, if the demon finds the female novice (or male 96D
 disciple) ready to renounce the Most Christian Faith and Worship, and
 never to adore the “Distended Woman” (that is what they call the Most
 Blessed Virgin Mary) and Sacraments, then the demon holds out his
 hand and conversely the male disciple (or female novice) promises to
 follow those practices, pledging this by signature. After getting these
 promises, the demon immediately adds that they are not enough, and
 when the disciple asks what further ones must be made, the demon asks
 for homage, which contains the provision that the person will belong to
 himeternally in body and soul and be willing, to the best of his abilities,
 to turn any other people, of both sexes, into the demon’s associates. He
 then adds that the person should make himself certain pastes out of the
 bones and limbs of children, especially those reborn75 with the Font of
 Baptism, and that with these pastes he would able to fulfill all his desires
 with the demon’s assistance.
 Weinquisitors learned of this method through the testimony of expe
rience in the town of Breisach in the diocese of Basel, receiving full
 information from a young woman who was a sorceress but converted.76
 Her aunt, too, had been burned to ashes in the diocese of Strasburg,
 and the young woman stated that the method by which her aunt had 97A
 originally attempted to lead her astray was as follows. One day she had
 73 I.e., without the participation of other sorceresses.
 74 This is the so-called black sabbath (also referred to with the variant form “sabbat” to distinguish
 it from the regular ecclesiastical rite). This is a perversion of normal ritual falsely ascribed to
 heretics by their orthodox opponents. It is sometimes argued that the Malleus was of minor
 influence in the spread of the conception of sorcery as a satanic cult because the black sabbath,
 which formed a major element in later notions of sorcery, receives little emphasis. Yet, here the
 black sabbath clearly is mentioned (see also the method of attending “long distance” in 79A–B),
 and the reason for the failure to mention it more often derives from the fact that such mention
 is simply not relevant to the purpose of the Malleus, which is not intended to serve as a general
 handbook on the matter but to demonstrate the reality of sorcery and to delineate the ways of
 dealing with acts of sorcery and of eradicating their perpetrators.
 75 Other sections of the text (97C [with 214D], 138C; cf. 211D) clearly indicate that this should
 read “those not yet reborn...”
 76 This story is also told in 110B–C.
284
 The Hammer of Witches 97A–B
 97B
 to go upstairs with her aunt and enter a room at her command. There,
 she saw fifteen young men in green-colored garments after the fashion
 in which knights77 go about, and the aunt said to her, “Well, then! From
 among these young men I will hand over to you the one that you want,
 and he will take you as his bride.” When the young woman said that she
 did notwishtohaveanyofthem,shewasbadlywoundedandeventually
 gave in, indicating the method mentioned above.78 She also stated that
 she had been transported quite often over long stretches of the earth
 with her aunt at night, all the way from Strasburg to Cologne. It is this
 womanwhogaverisetoourpromiseinQuestionOnetoexplainwhether
 sorceresses really are moved in body from place to place by demons.79
 (This promise was made because of the words of the Canon (26,Q.5,
 “Episcopi”), where the sense of the text is that they do so only in the
 imagination, though sometimes they really are moved in body.) When
 she was asked whether they went about like this only in the imagination
 and fantasy, being deluded by the demons, she answered that they did
 so both ways. This is in fact the case, as will be explained below80 in
 connection with the method of being transported in location. She stated
 that greater losses are inflicted by midwives, since they must generally
 either kill babies or offer them to demons.81 She stated that she had
 also been severely beaten by the aunt because she had opened a covered
 jar and found the heads of very many babies inside. She also recounted
 many other stories, having first sworn an oath to tell the truth, as was
 f
 itting.82
 Toherwordsaboutthewayofmakingtheavowal,unimpeachablecor
roboration is provided by the things that the aforementioned Johannes
 Nider, a notable Doctor who even in our days is famous for wondrous
 writings, recounted in his Ant Hill on the basis of the report of an
 77 The meaning of rutheri in the Latin is not self-evident, but this is presumably an attempt to
 transliterate the German Reuter, which was a variant on thestandardGermanRitter,or“knight.”
 The descendants of the “knights” of medieval Germany served as the cavalry in the armies of
 the early-modern states, and hence the word is meant to convey dashing young officers of
 comparatively high birth.
 78 Presumably, the ceremonial vow of the preceding paragraph.
 79 See 11A.
 80 Ch. 3 (101A–105C).
 81 See 64A–B.
 82 Onehastoadmire the ingenuity of this woman. She admitted to having done homage to Satan,
 yet managed to convince the gullible inquisitor not only that she had been coerced (which really
 ought not to have made any difference to him) but that she was actually pious! Not bad for
 the niece of a burned sorceress. Once the inquisitor was convinced of her “innocence,” an oath
 sufficed to guarantee the accuracy of her account.
Part II 97B–D
 285
 inquisitor of the diocese of Autun,83 who conducted an inquisition in
 that diocese into many people accused of acts of sorcery and had them
 burnedtoashes.Nidersays,“Fromtheaccounttoldtomebytheinquisi
tor mentioned above I learned that in the Duchy84 of Lausanne certain
 sorcerers cooked and ate their own baby children. The method of learn- 97C
 ing this art was, as he said, that the sorcerers came to a certain gathering
 and by their work they saw the demon as if real85 in the assumed image
 of a human, and to him the disciple was obliged to give his word about
 renouncing Christianity, never worshipping the Eucharist and treading
 on the Cross when he could do so secretly.”
 AnotherillustrationfromNiderfollows.Therewasalso86 thecommon
 report (the story is from Judge Peter in Boltigen),87 that in the land of
 Berne thirteen babies were devoured by sorcerers, and for this reason
 public justice had blazed forth quite harshly against such parricides.
 When Peter asked a certain captured sorceress about the method by
 which they ate infants, she answered, “The method is this. We prey
 on babies, especially those not yet baptized, but also those baptized,
 particularly when they are not protected with the Sign of the Cross or
 prayers.” (Notice, reader, that they prey on the unbaptized in particular
 at the instigation of the Devil, so that they should not be baptized.) It 97D
 goeson:“Withourceremonieswekillthemintheircribsorwhiletheylie
 beside their parents, and whiletheyarethoughttohavebeensquashedor
 to have died of something else, we steal them secretly from the tomb and
 boil them down in a caldron until all the flesh is made almost drinkable,
 the bones having been pulled out. From the more solid matter we make
 a paste suitable for our desires and arts and movements by flight, and
 from the more runny liquid we fill a container, for instance a bottle
 made out of a skin. Whoever drinks from this container is immediately
 rendered knowledgeable whenafewceremoniesareadded,andbecomes
 the master of our sect.”
 Hereisanothermethodforthesamepurpose,onethatismoredistinct
 and clear. When a certain young man who had been arrested with his
 sorceress wife, and in the court of Berne was being held separately from
 83 It is not possible to identify this inquisitor.
 84 Lausanne was ruled (until 1536) not by a duke but by a prince-bishop. The reason for this
 confusion in the source (Nider) is not at all clear. Perhaps Nider’s informant has confused the
 diocese of LausanneandtheneighboringDuchyofSavoy(itselfahotbedofWaldensianheretics,
 who were closely associated in the orthodox mind with sorcery).
 85 For this Nider has “visibly.”
 86 This adverb is borrowed from Nider and is superfluous in the present context.
 87 A village in the Simmen Valley, which Peter governed as bailiff (see n. 25).
286
 The Hammer of Witches 97D–98B
 98A
 98B
 her in a different tower, he said, “If I could receive forgiveness for my
 misdeeds, I would readily reveal all the things that I know about acts of
 sorcery. For I see I will have to die.” When hehadheardfromthelearned
 men88 standing around that he could receive complete forgiveness if he
 truly repented, he offered himself happily to death, and described the
 methods of the original tainting. “The procedure,” he said, “by which I
 was led astray is this. It is first necessary that on Sunday, before the Holy
 Water is consecrated, the prospective disciple should enter a church with
 the masters and in their presence renounce Christ, the Faith in Him,
 Baptism andthewholeChurch,andthendohomagetothemasterling.”
 (That is, to the little master. For this and nothing else is what they call
 the demon.)
 Hereitshouldbenotedthatthismethodagreeswiththeothersalready
 mentioned. It is no obstacle that sometimes the demon is present when
 the homageisdonetohim,andsometimesnot.Forheisworkingcraftily
 in the latter case, perceiving the inclination of the prospective disciple,
 who, as a novice, will perhaps shrink from his presence through fear,
 though through his friends and acquaintances the demon easily guesses
 that the prospective disciple gives his assent. The reason why they call
 him the “masterling” even when he is absent is so that the prospective
 disciple will be struck with less terror as a result of his considering him
 to be small.89
 Thefollowing appears at the end. “Hedrinksfromthisskin, andonce
 this is done, he immediately perceives that in his innards he conceives
 and retains pictures of our art concerning the fundamental rites of this
 sect. By this method,” he said, “was I led astray. So was my wife, whom I
 believe to be so obstinate that she would rather endure the flames than
 be willing to confess to the smallest truth. But, alas, we are both guilty.”
 The truth was found to be exactly as the young man said. After
 confessing in advance, he was seen to die in great contrition. His wife,
 on the other hand, though convicted by witnesses, was unwilling to
 confess to any of the truth, either under torture or in death. Instead,
 whenthefirehadbeenprepared bytheexecutioner, she cursed him with
 the vilest words and was in this way burned to ashes. From these facts
 their ceremonial way of making an avowal is clear.
 The other method, the private one, is performed in various ways.
 Sometimes, a demon appears to men or to women who are trapped in
 some bodily or temporal affliction, sometimes addressing them visibly,
 88 I.e., clerics with an education.
 89 This is a conjecture of the author; the source (Nider) gives no explanation.
Part II 98B–D
 287
 sometimes using people as intermediaries. He promises that if they are
 willing to act in accordance with his advice, everything will turn out
 as they wish. As was discussed in Chapter One,90 he begins with small
 matters in order to lead them gradually to greater ones. Various deeds
 andevents discovered by us in the Inquisition could be narrated in proof
 of this, but because this topic is not subject to difficulty, it is necessary
 to strive for brevity, though a further explanation is added.
 For an explanation of the way they do homage a few things
 should be noticed
 Regardingthefact thattheDevilreceiveshomage,afewthings
 should be noted: for what reason and in what different ways he does
 this.
 98C
 First, he does this fundamentally to increase the offence against the
 majesty of God by appropriating for himself a creature dedicated to
 God and to be more certain of the future damnation that is his greatest
 desire, but it has often been found by us that he accepted such homage
 for a certain number of years at the time of the avowal, though on
 some occasions he took the avowal only and postponed the homage
 for a certain number of years. Let us say that the avowal consists of
 a complete or partial renunciation of the Faith, this being complete
 whenthe Faith is renounced as a whole, as was discussed above,91 partial
 when as a result of the pact entered into the person has to follow certain
 ceremonial rituals contrary to the ordinances of the Church(for instance
 fasting onSundaysoreatingmeatonFridaysorconcealingcertaincrimes
 in Confession or committing a similar crime). Let us say that homage
 consists of the handing over of body and soul.
 As for why they follow such practices, we can cite four reasons from 98D
 the point of view of the demon. As was explained in the second basic
 section92 of Part One of the treatise (“Whether demons are able to turn
 men’s minds to hatred or love”),93 he cannot enter the inner thoughts
 of the heart, since this is appropriate for God alone,94 but comes to
 know them from conjectures (as will be explained below),95 and there
fore if the infamous Wily Foe96 considers that it would be difficult to
 90 93B.
 91 96D.
 92 I.e., the discussion of the sorceresses’ role in sorcery, as laid out in 20B.
 93 Pt. 1,Q.7 (46A–52B).
 94 51B–C.
 95 100A.
 96 I.e., the Devil.
288
 The Hammer of Witches 98D–99B
 approach a female novice to secure her assent, he approaches her cajol
ingly, making few demands in order to bring her gradually to greater
 ones.
 The second reason. Since it must be believed that there is a diversity
 among those who renounce the Faith, some doing so by mouth and
 not by heart, some by mouth and by heart, the Devil wishes to test
 whether she makes her avowal to him by heart as she does by mouth,
 assigning a certain number of years, so that in that time he may discover
 her intention on the basis of her works and behavior.
 99A
 99B
 Thethirdreason. If over such a course of time herecognizes that she is
 not very eager to carry out any crime at all and that she is now adhering
 to him by mouthbut not by heart, and if he presumes that God’s mercy
 will help her through the protection of a good angel, which the demon
 can test in respect to many things, then he undertakes to abandon her,
 and expose her to temporal afflictions so that in this way at least he may
 make profit from her despondency. The truth of this is obvious. If it is
 asked why it is that certain sorceresses are unwilling to confess to even
 the least truth under any torture, even the greatest, while others readily
 confess to their crimes after each list of questions, and also why it is that
 after they have confessed, they endeavor to do away with their lives by
 hanging themselves– for it can in fact be said that when divine compul
sion through a holy angel does not co-operate in forcing the sorceress to
 confess the truth andindispelling the spell of silence caused by sorcery,97
 then whatever happens, whether this is silence or a confession of crimes,
 is done bytheworkofthedemons–thefirstisthecasewiththosewhom
 the demon knows to have denied the Faith by mouth and by heart and
 to have done homage in the same way, since he is certain of their obsti
nacy, while, conversely, he abandons the others by not protecting them,
 because he knows that they are of no use to him at all. Experience has
 often taught us this in that it was made clear by their confessions that all
 those women whom we caused to be burned to ashes were involuntary
 in inflicting acts of sorcery.98 They did not say this in hopes of escap
ing, because the truth was clear from the blows and scourges inflicted
 on them by the demons when they did not comply with their wishes
 (they were very often seen with faces swollen and bruised), and, likewise,
 97 For the perverse notion that sorcery is the reason why some people refuse to confess under
 torture, see 210C.
 98 Logically, it is equally valid (and historically rather more plausible) to conclude that the unfor
tunate women tortured into confessing to non-existent Satanism tried to preserve a shred of
 dignity by claiming that they had undertaken these “crimes” involuntarily.
Part II 99B–C
 289
 because after they have confessed their crimes under torture, they always
 contrive to end their lives by hanging themselves. The truth is grasped
 from our practice whereby guards are assigned every hour to watch for
 such things after they confess their crimes, though sometimes they have
 been found hanging from shoelaces or veils through the carelessness of
 the guards. As has been said, the Foe99 clearly brings this about to pre
vent them from gaining forgiveness through contrition or Sacramental
 Confession.
 As for those whom he could never entice in their heart, he now
 endeavors, since it wouldhavebeenveryeasyforthemtofindforgiveness
 with God, to bring them to despair through temporal shame100 and the
 horrible death, although by the Grace of God greater forgiveness, as
 the pious belief must be, resulted through true contrition and pure
 confession in instances where they were not voluntary in clinging to
 those filthy acts.
 This is made clear by the things that happened barely three years ago
 in the towns of Hagenau and Ravensburg in the dioceses of Strasburg
 andConstance. Inthefirsttown,onehangedherselfbyacheapveilthat 99C
 could be torn into strips. Another one (by the name of Walpurgis) was
 knownforthesorceryofsilence,instructing other womenastohowthey
 should bring about such silence with a first-born male child cooked up
 in an oven.101 More deeds and events are available, and similar accounts
 of others burned to ashes in the second town will be cited here and there
 in various passages.
 There is a fourth reason why demons postpone receiving homage
 in the case of some sorceresses, but do not do so at all in the case
 of others. Since they can learn the length of a person’s life more sub
tly than astrologers can, they have an easier time than astrologers do
 in either fixing in advance the end point of a life or in anticipating
 99 I.e., the Devil.
 100 I.e., the humiliation that attends their trial, conviction and execution.
 101 The structure of the paragraph would lead one to conclude that this sentence should begin with
 “The other...”, which would then refer to a sorceress from Ravensburg. But the Walpurgis
 mentionedhereisclearlyalludedtoin214DinananecdotethatisexplicitlyascribedtoHagenau.
 It is not likely to be the case that the order of the two illustrations here is reversed, because
 the letter that the burgermasters and councilmen of Ravensburg wrote about this inquisition
 indicates that two of the accused there were burned, and these two can be equated with Agnes
 the Bathkeeper and Anna of Mindelheim, who are mentioned here (see 146A–D). If anyone
 among the accused at Ravensburg had hanged herself, this ought to been mentioned in the
 letter. (And the Walpurgis here is not to be confused with the woman of the same name
 mentioned in 136D, since the latter was apparently involved in the proceedings in Innsbruck.)
 Hence,thesituation at Ravensburg is merely alluded to here without any specific example being
 cited.
290
 The Hammer of Witches 99C–100A
 the natural end with one that is caused,102 in the manner already
 discussed.103
 99D
 100A
 These acts and deeds of sorceresses can be explained briefly, first by
 citing the demon’s cleverness in such matters. In The Nature of Demons
 [5], Augustine gives seven reasons why contingent events in the future
 can be conjectured in a likely manner (not that the demons can know
 them as a certainty). The first is that they have a strong natural subtlety
 with regards to the workings of their intellect, and for this reason they
 understand causes even without running around as is necessary in our
 case. The second is that they know more things than we do because of
 their experience with time and the revelations made by the spirits above.
 Hence, on the basis of Isidore [Etymologies 8.11.16], the Doctors quite
 often affirm that the demons have excellent knowledge through three
 sorts of acuity (subtlety of nature, experience of time, and revelations
 from the spirits above). The fourth104 is their swiftness of movement,
 which results in their ability to foretell with miraculous swiftness in the
 west things that have happened in the east. The fifth is that since they
 can use their power to cause diseases, taint the breeze, and cause famine
 when God permits, they can likewise foretell these events. The sixth is
 that they can foretell a death more subtly through signs than a physician
 can by examining the urine and the pulse. For just as through signs
 the physician sees in a sick person certain things that the simple person
 doesnotnotice,thedemonseesthingsthatnohumanseesnaturally.The
 seventhisthatonthebasisofsignsthatderivefromtheintentofahuman
 they conjecture the things that are or will be in the soul more cleverly
 than a wise man can. For they know what urges, and consequently what
 sort of works, are probably going to result. The eighth is that since they
 know the acts and writings of the prophets better than humans do, and
 many future events are determined by them, they can foretell many
 future events on this basis. (These matters are also discussed in 26,Q.4,
 “Sciendum”.) Hence, it is no wonder if a demon can know the natural
 length of a human’s life. The situation is different, however, in the case
 102 The word translated by “caused” appears in the Latin as casualis, a word that means “by
 pure chance” (from it is borrowed the English “casual”). The sense demands “caused.” (The
 emendation causalem would involve the inversion of only two letters, but apart from the fact
 that there is no reason for a copyist to change a more familiar form into a less common one,
 this word would properly mean “causative” rather than “caused.”
 103 Presumably, the discussion of suicide (99A–B) is meant, though the phraseology recalls the
 discussion of the devil’s knowledge of inner thoughts (51D).
 104 The enumeration has skipped point three and jumped to four, which results erroneously in
 eight points.
Part II 100A–C
 291
 of a death that has been caused. Such a death is what happens through
 the burning to ashes that the demon brings about in the end, when,
 as has been said, he finds the sorceresses not to be voluntary and he is
 apprehensive about their return105 and conversion, while others whom
 he knows to be voluntary he protects up to the time of their natural, as
 it were, death.
 Let us give illustrations from either perspective that have been found
 or performed by us. In the diocese of Basel, a village situated above
 the Rhine called Oberweiler had a parish priest who was respectable in
 behavior but who held the view, or rather error, that there is no such
 thing as sorcery in the world, but only in the opinion of humans, who 100B
 ascribe effects of this kind to womenfolk.106 God wished to cleanse him
 of his error in a way that would also reveal other activities on the part
 of demons in fixing a limit on sorceresses’ lives in advance. When this
 priest wished to cross a bridge quickly to finish some business, he had
 an encounter with a certain old woman who was rude like him, and
 being unwilling to give way at the entryway to the bridge so that she
 could go first, he instead walked on rudely and accidentally knocked the
 old woman into the mud. Outraged at this, she burst out with insulting
 words, saying to him, “Father,107 you will not cross unharmed.” He did
 not pay much attention to the words, but that night when he wanted
 to get up from bed, he felt that he had been affected by sorcery below
 the belt. The result was that when he wanted to visit the church, other
 people always had to hold him up with their arms. He remained in this
 condition for three years, under the domestic care of his mother by the
 f
 lesh. After these three years, when the old woman, whom he had always
 suspectedof inflicting the sorcery on himbecause oftheinsulting words 100C
 with which she had threatened him, fell ill, it nonetheless happened that
 the sick woman sent for him to hear her confession. Though the priest
 rudelysaidsheshouldconfesstohermaster,theDevil,attheinsistenceof
 his mother he went to her home supported by the arms of two peasants.
 While he sat at the head of the bed in which the sorceress was lying,
 the two peasants wanted to hear from outside by the window– the
 105 I.e., to the church.
 106 This conception is suspiciously similar to the view ascribed by Aquinas to those who rejected
 the existence of sorcery (see 7D). It may well be that whatever views this priest may have
 had, they have been recast in terms of the arguments ascribed to the “opposition” in scholastic
 argumentation, and thus this presentation does not give us any insight into what the priest
 himself really thought.
 107 In this paragraph, “Father” represents Pfaff, a colloquial German title for a parish priest that is
 retained in the Latin text.
292
 The Hammer of Witches 100C–101A
 100D
 101A
 room was situated at ground level– whether she would confess to the
 sorcery inflicted on the parish priest. Then, it happened that although
 during confession she made no mention of the sorcery that had been
 inflicted, after finishing confession she said, “Father, do you know who
 affected you with sorcery?” When he answered politely that he did not,
 she replied, “You suspect me, and rightly so. You should know that I
 inflicted it on you” (for the reason mentioned above). When he pressed
 her to free him, shesaid, “Look, the appointed timeis comingandIhave
 to die, but I will arrange things so that you will be made healthy a few
 days after my death.” And so it turned out. For she died according to
 the limit set by the demon, and one night within the next thirty days the
 priest found himself entirely healthy. The name of the priest is Father
 Heflin, who is now in the diocese of Strasburg.
 Something similar happened in the village of B¨ uhl near the town of
 G¨ ubwiller in the diocese of Basel. There was a certain woman, who was
 arrested and eventually burned to ashes, and for six years this woman
 had an incubus demon, in fact right beside her husband as he slept in
 bed– three times a week (on Sunday, Thursday and Tuesday) and on
 other, more holy nights. She had done homage to the Devil with the
 provision that after seven years she would be dedicated to him forever in
 body and soul. Nonetheless, God arranged things piously. For when she
 was arrested and condemned to the flames in the sixth year, she made a
 full and genuine confession and is believed to have received forgiveness
 from God. For she was very voluntary in dying, claiming that although
 she could have been set free, she preferred death so long as she escaped
 the power of the demon.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 2:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.3
 Praec. 1.9]
 on the method by which they are transferred in
 location from place to place
 Chapter Three
 NOWthe topics of their ceremonies and of the procedures they
 use in their works must be taken up.
Part II 101A–C
 293
 First, the works that they perform on themselves and their own
 persons. Since being transported bodily from place to place is one of
 their principal actions (as is engaging in filthy carnal acts with incubus
 demons), we will relate a few details about each of them, and first about
 their bodily transportation. Here it should be noted that, as was dis
cussed quite often above, this transportation is subject to difficulty on
 the basis of a single passage of Scripture.108 This is 26,Q.5,“Episcopi,”
 where it is stated from the Council of Acquira,109 “It should not be
 overlooked, that certain criminal women, converting back to Satan and
 being led astray by the demons’ illusions and fantastical images, believe
 and proclaim that during the nighttime hours, they ride on certain wild
 animals with Diana, a goddess of the pagans, or with Herodias and a
 countless multitude of women, and pass over great stretches of land 101B
 during the silence of the dead of night, obeying her in all things as their
 mistress” and so on. “Wherefore the priests of God ought to preach to
 the congregation so that they know these things to be altogether false
 and that such fantastical images are inflicted on the minds of the faithful
 not by a divine but by an evil spirit. For it is Satan himself who turns
 himself into the appearances and resemblances of different persons, and
 by deluding in dreams the minds that he holds captive he takes them
 on journeys through all sorts of places off the beaten path,” and so on.
 Illustrations to this effect are sometimes drawn in public sermons from
 the story of St. Germain110 and a certain other man who kept watch on
 his daughter in connection with this matter,111 as if it were altogether
 impossible for these things to happen. These illustrations are applied
 without distinction to sorceresses and their works, as if their individual
 works in harming humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth
 should not be applied to them on the grounds that they are deluded
 about causing such harm to creatures, in the same way that they are
 deluded in their fantasy in terms of being transported. This view was 101C
 refuted as heretical in Question One on the grounds that it fights both
 against divine permission as it relates to the Devil’s power, which can
 extend to greater, as it were, deeds, and likewise against the meaning
 of Holy Scripture. It is also heretical because in cutting off the ability
 to punish with the secular arm, it results in intolerable damage to the
 108 Note that contrary to modern English usage, the term “scripture” here refers not to the Bible
 but to a piece of later religious literature (in this case, the decision of a church council preserved
 in the canon law).
 109 See Pt. 1 n. 402.
 110 For this story, see n. 297.
 111 This allusion is not clear.
294
 The Hammer of Witches 101C–102A
 Holy Church, in that for many years now the sorceresses have remained
 unpunished as a result of this baneful view. As a result, their numbers
 have grown so enormously that it is now impossible to root them out.
 Therefore, the careful reader will consider the things that were set down
 there112 to destroy this view, and for the present he will notice how
 they are transported and the ways that this is possible, along with the
 responses to the illustrations that are advanced by them.113
 101D
 102A
 That they can be transported bodily is shown in various ways, first
 from other workings on the part of magicians. For if they were unable
 to be transported, this would be either because God did not give His
 permissionorbecausetheDevilwasunabletodothisinthathewouldbe
 f
 ighting against creation. The first is not the case, becausewhile greater
 and lesser acts can certainly be done with God’s permission, greater
 ones have very often been done in connection with both children and
 adults, provided that they are righteous and in a state of Grace. This is
 clearly so, since when they ask whether substitutions of children can be
 made by the work of demons and whether a demon is able to transport
 someone in location from place to place, even against his will, to the
 f
 irst they answer that they can. For William of Paris also says in the last
 part of The Universe, “Substitutions of children can be made, so that
 with God’s permission the demon is able to act as the baby or to bring
 about his transportation. Such children are always miserable wailers, and
 although four or five mothers would barely suffice to nurse them, they
 never grow fat, but they are exceedingly heavy.” (These matters should
 be neither affirmed nor denied to women because of the great fear that
 they could conceive. They should be instructed to ask the judgment of
 learned men.) God gives His permission for this because of the sins of
 the parents. For men sometimes curse their pregnant wives by saying,
 “I wish you were carrying the Devil” or similar words, and similarly
 irritable women often utter comparable words.
 Very manyillustrations can also be found about other humans, some
timesrighteousones.OnthebasisofastoryfromPeterDamian,Vincent
 relates in his Mirror of History (Bk. 26, Ch. 43 [actually, 25.63]) a story
 about the five-year-old son of a certain nobleman. At that age, the boy
 wasmadeamonkandatnightwastakenfromthemonasterytoalocked
 mill, where he wasfoundinthemorning.Whenquestioned,hesaidthat
 he had been brought by certain people to a great banquet and ordered
 to eat, and afterwards was put in the mill through the upper story.
 112 I.e., in Pt. 1,Q.1 (7A–13D).
 113 I.e, the advocates of the erroneous view.
Part II 102A–C
 295
 What of the magicians who are generally called nigromancers by
 us and are often carried through the air over far stretches of earth by
 demons?Sometimes,theyalso persuade others to do this and carry them
 with them on a nag. This is clearly not a real horse but a demon in such
 a form, and they exhort the riders not to speak or protect themselves
 with the Sign of the Cross.114
 There are two of us writing this treatise, and one of us has very often
 seenanddiscoveredsuchpeople.Amanwhowasatthattimeauniversity
 student and is now a priest in the diocese of Freising and is thought to
 be still alive would often relate that he was once carried up bodily by
 a demon through the air and brought to distant parts. In Oberdorf, a
 town near Landshut,115 there survives another priest, who was then a
 companion of that priest. This second priest saw him being carried up
 with his owneyes. Withhisarmsstretched out, the manwastransported
 up into the air, shouting but not wailing.
 102B
 The reason, as the man himself reported, was as follows. When a
 large number of university students were having a banquet one day, the
 agreement they reached about the beer drinking was that the one who
 fetched the beer would not have to pay anything, and so when one of
 the drinking companions wanted to go fetch the beer and opened the
 door, he saw a thick fog in front of the door. Terrified at this, he went
 back, and in explaining the reason why he was unwilling to bring the
 drink, he told them about it. In outrage, the one who was carried said, 102C
 “Even if the Devil were present, I am going to bring the drink,” and
 leaving with these words, he was carried up through the air while all the
 others watched.
 Certainly, it is necessary to admit that such things can happen not
 only to people who are awake but also to ones who are asleep, so they are
 bodily transported in location through the air while sleeping. This is also
 clearly the case with certain people whowalkoverrooftilesandveryhigh
 114 This procedure actually belongs to the tradition of “clerical magic.” The general practice is
 described in Johann Hartlieb’s Book of All Forbidden Arts, Lack of Faith and Sorcery (Buch
 aller verbotenen Kunst, Unglaubens und der Zauberei, quoted in Hansen [1901], 130–131): “On
 traveling through the air. In the wicked, unholy nigromantic art, there is another madness that
 the people do with their horses of sorcery. They come to an old house, and whoever wants
 to sits on one and rides in a short time over very many miles. If he wants to get off, he pulls
 back on the reins, and if he wants to get back on, he shakes the reins and the horse returns.
 This horse is in truth the real devil.” Spells nos. 9, 14 and 18 in the necromancer’s handbook
 published by Kieckhefer (1999) give procedures for acquiring such horses; nos. 9 and 18 both
 mention the use of reins described in Hartlieb, and no. 18 advises against signing oneself, as
 stated in the Malleus.
 115 The name Ober(n)dorf is fairly common but at present there is no site by this name in the
 vicinity of Landshut.
296
 The Hammer of Witches 102C–103A
 102D
 103A
 buildings while sleeping. Nothing can block their passage up or down,
 and if bystanders address them by name, they immediately fall to the
 ground as if hurled. Many people think that these things clearly happen
 through the work of demons, and not without reason. For demons
 come in many different varieties. There are some who belong to the
 lower chorus116 of angels and are tormented with minor penalties as if
 for small offences, in addition to the penalty of loss through damnation
 that they will suffer eternally. Such demons are unable to harm anyone,
 at least not severely, but basically they just play jokes.Ontheotherhand,
 others are incubi or succubi, and these punish humans during nighttime
 or contaminate them with the sin of debauchery. Hence, it is no wonder
 if they also engage in these jests. The truth can be derived from the
 words of Cassian (First Collation) [7.32], where he says that there are
 as many unclean spirits as pursuits among men. This is corroborated
 without any doubt by the manifest fact that some of them, whom the
 common people call pagans but we call trolls (these are plentiful in the
 Kingdom of Norway) and faeries (“Schretl”), are misleading tricksters
 with the restriction that while they constantly haunt certain places and
 roads, they cannot harm passers-by in any way. Instead, they are content
 with derision and deception and strive to harass rather than harm them.
 Onthe other hand, some spend the night only in harmful visitations as
 incubi, while others are so given over to crazed savagery that they are not
 content with merely tormenting the bodies of those whom they have
 possessed with brutal torture, but also hasten to fall upon distant passers
by and to afflict them with the most cruel murder. Cassian means that
 they do not merely possess people, but inflict horrible torture, like the
 ones described in the Gospel (Matthew 8[:28–34]).
 On the basis of these facts we can conclude, first, that one should
 not say that sorceresses are not transported in location on the grounds
 that God does not give His permission. For if He gives His permission
 concerning the righteous and innocent or concerning magicians and
 other lax people, howcouldHenotdosoconcerningthosewhodedicate
 themselves entirely to the Devil? And (to speak in fear) did not the Devil
 raise up OurSavior,takingandsettingHimhereandthere,astheGospel
 testifies?117
 Nor does the second proposition support our adversaries, as if the
 Devil could not do this. This is the Devil in whom, as was explained in
 116 For the elaborate hierarchy of angels (and demons), see n. 489; here “chorus” refers to the one
 of the various “orders” of angels.
 117 The temptation of Christ is described in Luke 4.
Part II 103A–C
 297
 the foregoing, there is such natural virtue, surpassing all physical objects,
 that no earthly virtue can be compared to it according to the passage,
 “There is no power over the earth...” [Job 41:24]. Indeed, there is in
 Lucifer such natural power (virtue) that even among the good angels
 in heaven there is none greater than it. Since he surpasses all angels
 in natural gifts, and it was not the natural gifts that were diminished
 through the Fall but only those relating to Grace, these gifts still remain 103B
 in him,althoughdarkenedandhobbled.Hence,theglossonthepassage,
 “There is no power over the earth...” [Job 41:24]: “Even if he surpasses
 all things, he is nonetheless subordinate to the merits of the Saints.”
 Noris it valid if someone raises two objections. First, that a man’s soul
 can resist. Also, that the text seems to refer to only one in particular,
 that is, Lucifer, since it speaks in the singular, and while it was he who
 tempted Christ in the wilderness and led the first human astray, he is
 now banished, and the other angels do not possess such virtue, since
 he surpasses them all. Therefore, evil humans cannot bring about a
 transportation in location through the air.
 These contentions are not valid. First, let us speak of the angels. The
 least angel incomparably surpasses every human virtue. Explanations
 can be given on very many grounds. First, spiritual virtue is stronger
 than bodily power in the same way that the virtue of an angel or of the
 soul is superior to the virtue of the body.
 Second, in terms of the soul. Since every bodily formis a form made 103C
 into an individual one through matter and delimited by the here-and
now, as is now true of our soul, and since matterless forms are absolute
 and intellectual, which results in them having a virtue that is absolute
 and more universal, the embodied soul cannot so suddenly transport its
 body in location or raise it up, but with God’s permission it would be
 able to do so readily, when disembodied.118 A fortiori, a matterless spirit
 has all these powers in the way that an angel does, whether he is good
 or evil. For instance, a good angel transported Habakkuk in a second
 from Judea to Chaldea [Daniel 14:35].119 For this reason it is concluded
 that those who are carried over tall buildings during sleep at night are
 118 In the Thomistic conception of the world, the “forms” are the abstract notions that define
 a given genus, and the individual members of that genus are “realized” when that “form” is
 imposed on “matter.” The soul is thus the “form” that gives life to animate matter, in which
 case it is “embodied” in that living being, but it can also have a “disembodied” or “separate(d)”
 existence, in which case it is a spirit, like the angels (including the demons). Thus, the argument
 is that if it became disembodied, the soul would be able to move the body to which it would
 otherwise be attached. This is mere petitio principii.
 119 This chapter is an apocryphal text omitted in regular editions of the Bible.
298
 The Hammer of Witches 103C–104A
 carried along not by their own souls or as a result of the influences of
 the heavenly bodies but by some more excellent virtue, as was explained
 above.
 103D
 104A
 Third, bodily nature wasborntobemoveddirectlybyspiritualnature
 in terms of location, because movement in location is the first of move
ments (Physics,Bk.8 [8.7]), and because it is the more perfect among
 all the bodily movements.120 (This the Philosopher proves in the same
 passage on the grounds that what is moveable in location does not have
 a potential for some internal action, to the extent that it is such, but for
 someexternal action. From this it is concluded not so much by the Holy
 Doctors as by the philosophers121 that the highest (supply “the heav
enly”) bodies are moved by disembodied spiritual essences that are good
 in terms of both nature and will.) Another reason is our seeing that it is
 the soul that first and fundamentally moves the body with a movement
 in location. Therefore, it is necessary to say that the condition of the
 human body, in terms either of the body or of the soul, cannot prevent
 either from being movedsuddenly, withGod’spermission, fromplace to
 place by a spiritual essence that is good in terms of will and nature (since
 those who are good and in a state of Grace are transported) or good in
 terms of nature but not in terms of will (since the evil are transported).
 If someone wishes to, let him examine St. Thomas in First Part,Q.110
 throughout the three articles there, or in the Questions On Evil [16.10]
 or also in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 7 (on the
 power of demons of making effects on bodies).
 The method of transporting is as follows. As was explained in the
 foregoing,theyhavetomakeapastefromthelimbsofchildren,especially
 those killed by them before Baptism, and by the demon’s instructions
 they smear it on some seat or a piece of wood. When this has been done,
 they are immediately carried into the air, whether by day or night, and
 visibly or (if they wish) invisibly, according to whether the demon and a
 screen providedbysomeobjectareabletoconcealasecondobject,aswas
 explained in Part One122 of the treatise, on the topic of the appearance
 of the works of demons brought about through conjuring. For the most
 part the demon uses the practice involving such paste for the purpose
 of depriving babies of the Grace of Baptism, but it has also been seen
 120 One must bear in mind that in scholastic jargon, “movement” means what is normally called
 “change” (in that change it is motivated or “set in motion” by an external agent), and things
 can be moved in quality and quantity, as well as in location.
 121 I.e., students of natural philosophy (see n. 39).
 122 57A.
Part II 104A–C
 299
 many times that he produces effects without them. This is in instances
 where they transported sorceresses by means of animals that were clearly
 not real animals but demons in the form of them, or in the instances
 where they are transported without any external help, and it is just the
 demon’s virtue that does the work invisibly.
 Anevent concerning visible transportation during the day took place 104B
 in the town of Waldshut above the River Rhine in the diocese of Con
stance. A certain sorceress who was hated by the townsmen was not
 invited to the celebration of a wedding, but almost all the townsmen did
 attend. She was outraged, and thinking that she would avenge herself,
 she summoned a demon. She revealed the reason for her sadness and
 asked him to stir up a hail storm and to scatter everyone from the ring
 dance. When he agreed, he lifted her up and transported her through
 the air to a mountain near the town, in the sight of certain shepherds.
 As she later confessed, she lacked water to pour into a ditch (this is
 the method observed by them when they wish to stir up hailstorms, as
 will be explained),123 so in place of water she urinated into the small
 ditch that she had made and after her fashion she stirred it up with a
 f
 inger while the demon stood there. Suddenly raising this liquid up, the
 demonsent aviolent, stone-sized hailstorm over just the dancing inhab
itants of the town.124 They scattered because of this, and while they 104C
 were discussing the cause of it with each other, the sorceress entered the
 town, which aggravated their suspicions. Furthermore, after the shep
herds recounted the things that they had seen, this strong suspicion grew
 into a violent one.125 Hence, she was arrested and confessed that she had
 committed these crimes because she had not been invited. She was then
 burned toashes for this and for manyotheracts of sorcery committed by
 her.
 Because general reports about transportations of this kind are con
stantly flying about among the common people, it would not be useful
 to insert more illustrations about them here to prove this. Let these alone
 suffice against those whoeitheraltogetherdenybodilytransportationsof
 this kind or endeavor to assert that they happen only in the imagination
 or fantasy. If their error were restricted to them, it would not matter,
 indeed it would not even be worthy of notice, so long as their error did
 not tend toward insult to the Faith.
 123 Ch. 15 (144C–147A).
 124 For this method, see 146C; cf. 132A with n. 292.
 125 “Strong” and “violent” are technical terms describing the grounds for conviction in the inquisi
torial procedure; see 221A–222D.
300
 The Hammer of Witches 104C–105B
 104D
 105A
 105B
 Be it noted, however, that they are not content with this error and
 do not hesitate to insert and disseminate others, with the result that
 the sorceresses increase in numbers and the Faith suffers damage. They
 claim that all acts of sorcery, which are justly ascribed in a real and true
 sense to the sorceresses as the tools of the demons, should be ascribed
 to them as people who do no harm since these are merely matters relat
ing to an illusion in the imagination, just as such transportation is a
 f
 igment of fantasy. For this reason, sorceresses have very often remained
 unpunished, which results in great insult to the Creator and in the very
 serious increase of their numbers at the present time. But not even the
 arguments ascribed to them at the beginning can lend support to this
 claim. First, when they cite the Chapter “Episcopi”(26,Q.5), where it
 is stated that they are transported only in fantasy and imagination, who
 is so unintelligent that he would conclude that they cannot also be trans
ported bodily? For who could, on the basis of the end of that chapter
 where it is stated that he who believes that a human can be changed
 for better or worse or turned into another appearance should be con
sidered worse than a faithless person or pagan, conclude that humans
 could not be transformed into beasts through the illusion of conjuring,
 or changed from health to illness as if from better to worse? A person
 whowouldhavesuchproblemswiththesurfacemeaningofthewordsof
 the Canon would clearly give a pronouncement contrary to the under
standing of all the Holy Doctors, indeed contrary to the sense of Holy
 Scripture.
 On the basis of these facts the opposite is apparent in many ways,
 as has been explained in previous statements in many passages in Part
 One of the treatise. It is necessary, therefore, to pay attention to the
 pith of the words in accordance with the discussion in Part One of
 the treatise (in connection with the solution to the second error among
 thethreethatarerefutedthere),126 wherepreachersareenjoinedtopreach
 four things to the congregation. The sorceresses are transported both in
 body and in fantasy according to what is made clear on the basis of their
 confessions, not so much of those who have been burned to ashes as of
 those who have returned to the Faith and penitence. One of these was
 in the town of Breisach, and when asked whether they are able to be
 transportedinfantasyandimaginationorinbody,sheansweredthatthey
 can in both ways. For if by chance they did not wish to be transported
 bodily but still wished to know everything thatwas being done by their
 126 11A.
Part II 105B–C
 301
 associates at that gathering, then the method followed by them was that
 in the name of all the devils she would place herself on her left side
 propped up by her elbow, then there would come forth from her mouth
 something like a kind of grey steam, which would allow her to observe
 clearly the individual activities going on there. But if she wished to be
 transportedinbody,itwouldbenecessarytofollowthemethoddiscussed
 above.127
 Also, in the case of that Canon being understood straightforwardly
 withoutanyexplanation,whoissostupidthathewouldonthesegrounds
 affirm that all the acts of sorcery and harm committed by sorcerers
 are figments of fantasy and imagination, when the opposite is clear
 to everyone’s senses, especially when there are quite a few varieties of
 superstition (fourteen), and among these the one comprising sorceresses
 holds thehighestlevel in termsofactsofsorcery[“evil doing”] andharm,
 and the variety comprising pythonesses, to which those who are carried
 in fantasy can be ascribed, holds the lowest level?128
 Finally, the illustrations from the Life of St. Germain129 or any others 105C
 likewise do not lend them support, since it was clearly possible for the
 demons to set themselves alongside their husbands as they slept, as if
 the women were sleeping with their husbands, during the intervening
 periodoftimewhenthesearchforthewiveswasbeingconducted.130 Out
 of respect for the Saint, however, it is not asserted that this happened,
 but this proposition is laid out so that no one will believe that the
 opposite of what is laid out in the Life is impossible.131 As for any other
 objections, by similar reasoning the response can be given that in the
 writings of the Holy Doctors many sorceresses are found to have been
 transported in body, just as some are found to have done so only in
 fantasy. If someone wishes to consult Thomas of Brabant in his book
 Bees, he will find wondrous accounts of the transportation of humans,
 both in imagination and in body.
 127 104A.
 128 See Pt. 1,Q.16 (77D–80A).
 129 For this story, see n. 297. It is clear from a statement later in this paragraph that the reference
 here is to a written version of the saint’s life.
 130 Presumably this explanation is generated by the anecdote told in 100D.
 131 More petitio principii. What is said in the legend is not denied but it is claimed that this cannot
 be used as evidence against the advocated position, because the opposite of what the legend
 says (i.e., the advocated position) is possible. But the whole point of the objection is to deny
 that position, which is in fact subverted by the legend, so one can hardly deny the evidence
 against that position by asserting, on the basis of that position, that contrary evidence could be
 explained otherwise, even though by one’s own admission it is not to be explained that way.
 For further ambivalent treatment of this legend, see 133A.
302
 The Hammer of Witches 105C–D
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 3:
 Aq., On Evil 16.10.1
 Sent. 2.7.3.1
 Summa 1.19.11, 12
 Nider, Ant Hill. 5.3
 Praec. 1.11.13]
 there follows a discussion of the method
 by which they subordinate themselves to
 incubus demons
 Chapter Four
 105D
 AS for the way in which sorceresses subordinate themselves to
 incubus demons, six topics should be examined.132 Some are from the
 point of view of the demon and the body assumed by him: the element
 from which it is formed. Second, from the point of view of the act:
 whether it is always carried out with the infusion of a seed received
 from someone else. Third, from the point of view of the time and place:
 whetherthedemonactsatonetimeratherthananother.Fourth,whether
 he acts visibly from the point of view of the woman, and whether only
 those women who are begotten from filthy acts of this kind are visited
 regularly by demons.133 Fifth, whether those women who are offered by
 midwivestothedemonsatthetimeofbirtharesovisited.Sixth,whether
 the sexual pleasure is lesser or greater in such women.
 First,134 regarding the material and quality of the assumed body, it
 should be said that he assumes a body made of air and that it is made of
 132 This discussion of the following topics was promised almost verbatim in 39D–40A. For some
 reason the fourth and fifth topics in the earlier version are conflated into the fourth here, which
 reduces the total from seven to only six (see next note). In addition, the division of the material
 into questions dealing with the demons (one to three), the bystanders (four) and the women
 (five to seven) is likewise abandoned.
 133 In the version of this section in 39D, the fourth question here is said to relate to bystanders,
 whereas the following question about whether demons visit only the daughters begotten by
 demons is the first of the section about examining issues relating to women. Here for some
 reason the transitional reference to the topic of women is transferred to the fourth topic and
 the mention of bystanders suppressed altogether (the punctuation and capitalization of the two
 passages leaves no doubt as to where the transitional phrase about women belongs, i.e., with
 the fifth question in the earlier passage and the fourth in the second). This conflation of the
 earlier two questions is apparently intentional, since the numbering of the next two topics is
 accordingly reduced by one.
 134 I.e., the first topic just laid out in 105D.
Part II 105C–106B
 303
 earth in some way inasmuch as it has the characteristic of earth through
 a process of thickening. This is explained as follows.
 Air is in its own right capable of being formed into an effigy only in 106A
 terms of being formed into the effigy of some other body in which it is
 enclosed, and hence it is by no means delineated by its own boundaries
 butonlybythoseoftheotherbody.Also,onepartoftheairiscontiguous
 with the next. Therefore, a demon cannot straightforwardly, so to speak,
 assume a body made of air.135 (It should be noted that air is especially
 capable of being transformed and changed into anything at all, a sign
 of which is the fact that when certain men have endeavored to cut or
 pierce a body assumed by a demon with a sword, they were unable to
 achieve this because when air is divided, the parts immediately become
 continuous again.)136 Thus, it is clear that in its own right air is a quite
 suitable material. Because it cannot be formed into an effigy unless
 something earthy is added in, it is necessary for this air to be condensed
 in some way and made to approximate to the characteristic of earth,
 provided, however, that the true quality of the air is preserved. Demons
 and disembodied souls can bring about this thickening by gathering
 themtogether and making them into an effigy by means of dense vapors
 raisedupfromtheearthbymovingtheminlocation.Thedemonsremain
 in them only as movers and not as if they were informing it by pouring 106B
 life into that bodily in a formal manner, since that is how life flows from
 the soul to the associated body.137 In the bodies assumed and formed
 into effigies in this way they are like a sailor in a ship that he has moved.
 Hence, when it is asked what sort of body is assumed by a demon in
 terms of material, it should be said that it is one thing to speak in terms
 of the beginning of the act of assuming and another to speak of its end,
 because in terms of the beginning it is air, but in terms of the end it is
 thickened air approximating to the characteristic of earth.138
 With God’s permission demons have all these powers by nature. For
 spiritual nature is superior to bodily nature, and for this reason the
 bodily nature must obey it. This is understood in terms of movement
 in location but not in terms of the act of assuming natural forms, both
 incidental and substantial, except in the case of certain small creatures,
 135 Aquinas himself rejects this reasoning (Sent. 2.8.1.3.Ag4)!
 136 Cf. 111A.
 137 For the sense of this, see n. 118.
 138 It was averytypical characteristic of Aristotle’s thought to describe a phenomenon in terms of its
 beginning (origin), development and end (purpose). The Malleus itself is artificially organized
 by this principle (2B), and here too this conception is applied in a mechanical (and literal) way,
 as if the formal scheme by itself were an explanation.
106C
 304
 The Hammer of Witches 106B–D
 and then with the help of some other agent, as was discussed above.139
 No form is set through movement in location in the thing that has
 been moved. Hence, they can move it as they wish along with other
 circumstances.140
 If, on the basis of these facts, someone raises the incidental question of
 whatpronouncementshouldbegivenwhenagoodorbadangelpractices
 certain actions of life through real, natural bodies and not ones made of
 air (for instance when an angel spoke through the ass of Balaam141 or the
 occasions when demons act in possessed bodies), it should be said that
 those bodies are said to be not assumed but occupied. The words of the
 Doctor in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 8 (“Whether
 angels assume bodies”) [2.8.12] should be examined.
 But let us stick to the issue at hand. Demons can, in assumed bodies,
 speak with sorceresses, see them, hear them, eat with them and beget
 with them. With regard to how these activities should be understood
this is the second part of this first difficulty– as for the first it should be
 said that for true speech three things are needed. The first necessity is
 the lungs plus the inhaling of air, which serves the purpose not only of
 giving voice but also of cooling the heart, which is why even the mute
 need to inhale. Second, it is necessary for the speech to be formed out
 of the knocking of the body on the air. This is the same as the way
 106D
 that when someone knocks a stick on the air or a bell, he makes a
 large or small sound. For when material capable of producing sound
 in its own right is knocked with a tool capable of producing sound, a
 sound is created according to the size of the body. This sound is then
 received in the air and reproduced as far as the ears of the listener (if he
 is far off, it must reach him after an interval, it seems). Third, voice is
 needed, and it can be said that what is called sound in the case of bodies
 without a soul is called voice in the case of bodies with a soul. In the
 latter, it is the tongue that knocks the air, which has been inhaled and let
 out again, in an instrument and vessel cast by God and naturally alive,
 which is not the case with a bell. Accordingly, what is called sound in
 the latter instance is called voice in the former. An illustration of this
 third necessity can be given through the second, as is obvious. (I have
 139 See 61D–62A.
 140 The point is that God alone is conceived of as setting the “form” on the bodies of living
 things on earth (with the exception of frogs and the like, which Aristotle thought capable of
 “spontaneous generation”), so the demons cannot “move” a creature by changing its “form,”
 that is, by changing it in terms of the “species” (“appearance”) to which it belongs, but they can
 “move” it in location.
 141 See n. 21.
Part II 106D–107B
 305
 set down these statements so that preachers will have a way to inform
 the congregation.) Fourth, it is necessary for someone who is forming
 his voice to wish to express the conception of his mind to someone else
 by word.142 For this reason, he organizes his voice, that is, marks it off
 in the mouth one word after another by knocking the teeth with the
 tongue, by opening and closing the mouth with the lips, by releasing 107A
 to the air that is outside the air that has been knocked in the mouth,
 and by increasing the sound in this way one word after another, right
 up to the ears of the listener, who then understands the conception of
 his mind.
 As for the issue at hand. Demons lack lungs and tongue, but by art
 they can create and show a tongue, as well as teeth and lips, according to
 condition of the body. Hence, they cannot truly talk in their own right,
 but since they have understanding,143 when they wish to express the
 understanding of their mind, it is not vocal expressions but sounds with
 a certain similarity to vocal expressions that they use. They knock air
 that has not been drawn in through inhaling, as in the case of humans,
 but has been held within an assumed body, and then they release it in
 an articulate way to the air outside up to the ears of the listener.144 That
 something resembling a voice can be made with air that has been drawn
 in by a process other than inhalation is shown by certain non-breathing
 animals, which are said to give voice, and by certain other instruments,
 as the Philosopher says inThe Soul,Bk.2 [2.8]. For when the herring is
 takenoutofthewater,itsuddenlyletsoutavocalsoundanddies.(These 107B
 statements, as well as those that follow down through the topic of the
 force of procreation, can be used, though not with reference to the good
 angels.) If someone wishes to speculate further on the talking of demons
 in possessed bodies, in which case they use the bodily instruments of
 the real, possessed body in that they slide into it (this being understood
 to mean within the bounds of the mass of the body and not within the
 boundsoftheessenceofthebodyorsoul),145 makeadistinctionbetween
 142 Since this fourth requirement is really just a specification of the second, perhaps it has been
 added by a later adapter to the three requirements laid out at the beginning of the paragraph.
 143 Anotheruntranslatableplayonwords,theLatinwordintellectussignifyingboth“understanding”
 in the general sense and the mind’s “intellect” in particular.
 144 Thedistinction here seems to be formal rather than substantive. The demons in assumedbodies
 actually produce language in the same way that people are supposed to, but it is different in that
 a proper tongue and lungs are not used to inhale the air and strike it. If demons are thought to
 be able to “fashion” fake bodies out of air, it is hard to see why logically they should not be able
 to form a tongue and lungs too. Presumably, this ability is denied to them in order to reserve
 for God the exclusive right to create “life.”
 145 Cf. the parallel discussion in 51B.
306
 The Hammer of Witches 107B–D
 substance on the one hand and mass or incidental quality on the other.
 But discussing these matters has nothing to do with the issue at hand.
 If someone wishes to, let him examine St. Thomas in the Commentary
 on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 8,Art.5 [actually, 2.8.1.5].
 107C
 107D
 Next, as for how they see and hear, it should be said that there are
 two kinds of vision, spiritual and bodily, the first infinitely surpassing
 the second, both because it penetrates and because it is not impeded
 by distance in accordance with the ability of the light that is serving
 them. Therefore, it should be said that an angel, whether good or bad,
 in no way sees through the eyes of the assumed body, nor does anything
 bodily serve him in the way that he is served in talking by the air and
 the knocking of the air to produce sound and reproduce it right up to
 the ears of the listener. Hence, their eyes are painted eyes.
 They readily show themselves to humans in these likenesses, in order
 to make manifest to them spiritually through works of this kind charac
teristics that humans naturally possess (seeing, hearing and speaking). It
 is for this reason that by God’s ordination and with His permission holy
 angels often appeared to the Fathers. They manifest themselves to evil
 humans so that when the humans recognize their characteristics, they
 will join them as their partners, in instances of guilt here and in penal
ties elsewhere.146 Hence, Dionysius says at the end of Heavenly Hierarchy
 [15.3], “From all the parts of the human body the angel teaches how to
 consider his own characteristics.”
 Inconclusion,sincebodilyvisionisaworkingofalivingbodythrough
 a bodily organ, things that the demons lack, they have likenesses of these
 workings in assumed bodies in the same way they have likenesses of the
 limbs. We can speak similarly of a demon’s hearing, which is much
 nobler than that of the body, because he can recognize the conception
 of the mind and the speaking of the soul more subtly than a human
 can recognize by hearing the conception of the mind that is expressed
 through bodily words (see St. Thomas in the Commentary on Pronounce
ments,Bk.2, Dist. 8).147 For if a human’s secret will is read in his facial
 expression and the emotions of the soul are recognized by physicians
 from the movement of the heart and from the quality of the pulse, a
 fortiori they can be recognized by the demons.
 As for eating, let us say that the entire process of eating signifies four
 elements: dividing the food up in the mouth, passing it into the body,
 146 “Here” is on earth, “elsewhere” is in hell.
 147 2.7.2.1 discusses the superiority of demonic cognition, but it seems that 2.8.1.4, the discussion
 of demons’ use of assumed organs, is meant.
Part II 107D–108B
 307
 the virtue of the bodytodigestit and, fourth, transforming the necessary
 nutrients and expelling what is left over. In assumed bodies, every angel
 carries out the first two by eating, but is not capable of the third and
 fourth. In place of the virtue of digestion and evacuation, he possesses
 a power by which food is immediately broken up into the previously
 existing matter. In Christ there was true eating in all respects, since
 He had the power of nourishment and conversion, though He did not
 convert it into His own body, since those virtues were, like His body,
 glorified, and as a result the food was instantly broken up in His body, 108A
 as happens when someone throws water onto a fire.
 How sorceresses practice carnal acts with incubus demons in the present
 day, and how they are increased in number as a result of these acts
 As for carnal acts(themaintopic),148 whichthedemonspractice
 with sorceresses as incubi in assumed bodies, there is no underlying
 difficulty as a result of the foregoing, unless perchance someone doubts
 whether present-day sorceresses engage in filthy acts of this kind and
 whether the sorcerers derive their origin from these filthy acts.
 In response to these two doubts, let us say with reference to the first
 that whatever was the case with earlier sorceresses before the year of the
 Lord’s Incarnation 1400 or so, whether, that is, they served in these filthy
 acts in the way that present-day sorceresses have done since that time,
 this is not known, because the historical record nowhere discusseswhat 108B
 experience has now taught us.149 No-one who leafs through histories
 can doubt that like incubus and succubus demons, sorcerers have always
 existed, and that from their depraved works very many forms of harm
 to humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth have resulted,
 since for many centuries the traditions of the Canons and of the Holy
 Doctors havebeenhandingdowntoposterityverymanyaccountsabout
 them, although there is a difference in that in the past demons harassed
 womenfolk against their will, as Nider in his Ant Hill and Thomas of
 Brabant in his Universal Good (or Bees) relate with many accounts.150 As
 for the present proposition, which asserts that present-day sorceresses
 148 I.e., in the scheme for this chapter laid out in 105D, the main topic is the sexual union of
 sorceresses and demons, and this topic is now beginning after the preliminary question of the
 nature of the assumed body used in the procedure by demons.
 149 It is significant that no evidence for the “satanic” conception of sorcery is known prior to the
 f
 ifteenth century.
 150 It is not clear what specific sections are meant; perhaps the end of Ant Hill 5.10, which discusses
 the sexual harassment of women by demons and cites Thomas of Brabant.
308
 The Hammer of Witches 108B–D
 108C
 108D
 are tainted with filthy acts of the Devil of this sort, it is not so much
 our pronouncement that advocates this as the testimony of experience
 given by the sorceresses themselves, who have rendered all these things
 believable, no longer subordinating themselves to a wretched form of
 slavery against their will, as has hitherto been the case, but doing so of
 their own accord for physical pleasure, (a most foul thing). For whatever
 the numberof sorceresses whowereturnedovertothesecular arm byus
 for punishmentinvariousdioceses, especially in the town of Ravensburg
 in the diocese of Constance, they clung to these filthy acts for many
 years, some for twenty years, some for twelve or thirty, and always with
 a renunciation of the Faith in whole or in part.151 All the inhabitants of
 that city can bear witness, and apart from those who secretly repented
 and returned to the Faith, no less than forty-eight were handed over to
 the flames in five years.152 The faith placed in the latter was not so great
 as the credence accorded to those who returned of their own accord for
 penance, but all agreed that they had to engage in filthy acts of this kind
 to increase this breach of the Faith. (These events will be treated one
 at a time in Part Two of the work, where their particular works will be
 described.)153 Not to mention the deeds carried out in the county of
 Bormio by our associate, the inquisitor of Como!154 In the space of a
 single year (1485) he had forty-one sorceresses burned up, and they all
 publicly asserted that they had clung to those filthy acts of the Devil.
 Therefore, belief in all of this is based upon either our own experience
 or the reports of trustworthy witnesses.
 As for the second topic,155 in which a difficulty is raised as to whether
 the sorcerers derived their origin from these filthy acts, let us say in
 accord with Augustine, that it is clearly true that all superstitious arts
 derived their origin from the baneful alliance of humans and demons.
 This is what he says in The Christian Doctrine,Bk. 1 [2.19–21] (it is
 contained in 26,Q.2, [Decretum 2.26.2. 6§5]): “All arts of this kind,
 whether belonging to a silly form of superstition or a harmful one based
 151 Presumably, Agnes Baderin and Anna of Mindelheim, the two women burned at Ravensburg,
 are meant (see 145D–147A). Agnes admitted to sexual relations with a demon for “more than
 eighteen years” (146B), and Anna is said to have “had the incubus demon for more than twenty
 years” (146D)
 152 This total seemingly refers to the entire diocese of Constance, and the years in question are
 presumably 1482 to 1486.
 153 This reference within the text of Pt. ii to a later discussion “in Part Two” provides evidence
 that the present discussion of the details of women’s subordination to demons has been moved
 from its original location in Pt. 1.
 154 For the identification of this man, see Pt. 1 n. 439.
 155 As laid out in 105D.
Part II 108D–109B
 309
 on some baneful alliance of humans and demons, should be altogether
 repudiated as agreements made for the sake of a faithless and deceitful
 form of friendship.” This being noted, it is manifest that they have
 different sorts of agreements, in the same way that there are different
 varieties of superstition (magical art), and since the variety comprising
 sorcerers is the worst among the fourteen varieties of that art, because it
 is based not on an implied but an explicit agreement and because they
 mustinadditionrenderadorationtothedemonsthrougharenunciation
 of the Faith, in consorting with the demons they retain the worst form 109A
 of alliance in accordance with the condition of women, who are always
 delighted by vanities. In addition, when it is noted that according to
 the teaching of St. Thomas in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.
 2, Dist. 4,Art.4, in solution to an argument [actually, 2.8.1.4b.SC3]
 in which he asks whether those begotten of such demons in the ways
 discussed above possess greater virtue than do other humans, he says
 that this is true not only on the basis of the text of Scripture (“These are
 the powerful men from the world...” and so on [Gen. 6:4]), but also
 on the grounds that demons can know, first, the virtue of the released
 seed from the disposition of the man by whom it was released, second,
 the proportionate156 nature of the women in terms of receiving that
 seed, and, third, the configuration of stars that assists that bodily effect.
 From his words, we can also add a fourth thing they know: the fact that
 the person thus begotten has an excellent temperament157 for effects
 proportionate to him. From all these facts, which cohere on this point,
 it is concluded that those begotten in this way are strong and large in
 body.
 Therefore, as for the issue at hand, when it is asked whether sorcer
ers derived their origin from these filthy acts, let us say the following.
 They clearly derived their origin from a baneful mutual alliance, as 109B
 was explained on the basis of the first noteworthy point, while on the
 basis of the second noteworthy point no one can deny that they derived
 their increase in number from these filthy acts, since demons engage in
 those acts not for the sake of pleasure but for the sake of corrupting.158
 156 The term “proportionate” is based on the idea that there are various levels of suitability, and for
 one element to interact with another, they must both occupy the same “level,” in which case
 they are described as “proportionate,” that is, “commensurate” with one another.
 157 See Pt. 1 n. 550.
 158 The two “noteworthy points” are the quotations of Augustine and Aquinas. “Noteworthy
 point” (notabile) is a technical term of scholastic discussion that does not appear elsewhere in
 the Malleus and presumably goes back to an unknown intermediate source.
310
 The Hammer of Witches 109B–D
 Thearrangement will, therefore, be the following. The succubus demon
 releases a seed from a criminal man; if the demon is assigned personally
 to this man and does not wish to make himself the incubus for the
 sorceress, he will hand the seedovertothedemonassignedtothewoman
 (sorceress), and the second one will make himself an incubus for the
 sorceress under a certain configuration of stars that serves his purpose, so
 that the manorwomanbegottenwillremainmightyinphysicalstrength
 for the purpose of performing acts of sorcery. No obstacle is provided by
 the fact that those of whom the text speaks were not “sorcerers” but only
 “giants and famous and powerful men,” because, as was stated above,
 acts of sorcery were not committed in the time of the Law of Nature159
 109C
 109D
 (because of the recent memory of the creation of the world), and as a
 result no place for idolatry was possible. Now, on the other hand, when
 the evil of mengrows,theDevilfindsagreateropportunityforspreading
 this kind of lack of faith. But when it is stated that they were “famous
 men,” these terms cannot be understood as the good that is virtue.
 Whether the incubus demon always releases a seed when
 he accosts160 the sorceress
 As for the topic,161 in which it is asked whether he always pours
 in a seed and so on, it is responded that since he has a thousand ways
 and arts of harming, inasmuch as since his downfall he has striven to
 split the unity of the Church and to overturn the human race in every
 way (16,Q.2 [Decretum 2.16.2.1]), no infallible rule can be given about
 them. It is, however, possible to give a plausible distinction, and this is
 whether or not the sorceress is aged and barren. If so, then he certainly
 accosts her without the release of a seed, since it would be pointless, and
 in his works the demon avoids what is redundant to the extent that he
 can just as nature does.162 Even if the sorceress is not barren, he still
 accosts her163 for the purpose of causing pleasure from her point of view.
 If, on the other hand, she is disposed for impregnation, then if he can,
 under the appropriate circumstances, get a seed that has been released
 by a man, he does not hesitate to accost her with it in order to taint the
 progeny.
 159 I.e., the period before the introduction of the “Old Law” described in the Old Testament (see.
 Pt. 1 n. 236).
 160 Clearly, the term is meant here as a euphemism for “visit for the purpose of having sex.”
 161 I.e., the second half of the second topic laid out in 105D.
 162 Cf. 21D, 25A.
 163 I.e., an old woman.
Part II 109D–110B
 311
 If someone asks whether he can in this way collect seed emitted
 through night-time pollution164 in the same way that he collects a seed
 released through the carnal act, a plausible explanation that can be given
 as a response is that he cannot, though some people think the opposite.
 They note that demons wait for the procreative virtue of the seed, as has
 been discussed before,165 and this force in the seed is poured forth and
 preserved to a greater degree through the carnal act, and that seed that
 has been emitted through night-time pollution is extracted only from
 redundant humor, and is extracted with less procreative force. They
 therefore believe that the demon would not be likely to act with such a
 seed for the purpose of begetting progeny, unless he happened to under
stand that this force was present in it. In addition, we cannot altogether
 deny that when a married sorceress is impregnated by her husband, 110A
 the incubus demon can taint the conception through mixing in another
 man’s seed.
 Whether at one time rather than another, and similarly about the place
 As for the topic166 astowhether he167 observes specific times and
 places, it should be said that, in addition to an observance of specific
 times in terms of the configurations of stars that he observes when he
 works with the intention of tainting of progeny, he also observes certain
 times when the intention of his action is not to taint but to bring about
 sexual pleasure from the point of view of the sorceress. These are the
 more sacred times of the year, like the solemn rites of Christ’s Nativity,
 Easter, PentecostandtheotherHolyDays.Theydothisforthreereasons.
 The first is that in this way the sorcerers will incur not only the vice of
 breach of the Faith with their apostasy from the Faith but also that of
 sacrilege, things in which the demons delight. The result will be that the
 Creator will be more offended and the sorcerers will be more severely
 condemned in their souls. The second reason is that since God is more
 severely offended in this way, He will grant them a greater power to act
 with savagery against humans and to punish them, even the innocent,
 either in their possessions or bodies. The passage, “The son shall not 110B
 carry theiniquity ofthefather”andsoon[Ezekiel18:20]isunderstoodin
 termsofeternalpunishment,butwithreferencetotemporalpunishment
 164 I.e., so-called “nocturnal emission,” that is, an ejaculation during sleep.
 165 24B, 25A.
 166 I.e., the third one laid out in 105D.
 167 I.e., the demon.
312
 The Hammer of Witches 110B–C
 110C
 the innocent are very often punished with affliction because of other
 people’s deeds. Hence, in another passage God shouts, “I am a strong
 andjealousGod,visitingthesinsoftheparentsontothethirdandfourth
 generations” [Exodus 20:5]. Such punishment was clearly the case when
 the sons of the Sodomites were overwhelmed because of their parents’
 crimes. The third reason is their intention to make more people fall by
 providing a greater opportunity. This is especially the case with young
 women, who are the more easily led astray by old women sorceresses
 on Holy Days, since they indulge more in leisure and novel forms of
 amusement. Anexampleofthis happened in the land of the birth of one
 of the two inquisitors composing this work.168 A certain young woman
 who was a devout maiden was importuned by an old woman to go
 upstairs with her to a room, because there were some very handsome
 young men in it. After she agreed, they went up together with the old
 woman leading the way. She enjoined the young woman not to protect
 herself with the Sign of the Cross, and although she agreed, she secretly
 did protect herself with it. The result of this was that when the maiden
 went up, she did not see anyone, because the demons there were unable
 to show their presence in assumed bodies to the maiden. With a curse
 the old woman said to the maiden, “Get out in the name of the devils!
 Why did you cross yourself?” These events I gathered from the pure
 confession of that maiden.
 A fourth reason can also be added, and this is that in this way they
 may more easily lead astray humans, because when they consider that
 such acts are permitted by God to happen at more sacred times, they do
 not think them as serious as they would if the demons were unable to
 perform them at those times.
 As for place. With regard to the question of whether they perform
 their acts more in certain places, it should be said that on the basis of the
 words and deeds of the sorceresses it is agreed that they cannot practice
 thosefilthyactsinHolyPlacesatall,andinthisregardonecanassesshow
 effectively the angels guard such a place because of their reverence for it.
 Whatismore,thesorceressesassert that they canneverhavepeaceexcept
 during Divine Service when they are present in church. For this reason,
 they enter more quickly and depart more slowly,169 although they must,
 168 This story is told in 94A–B, where it is located in Strasburg. Since Institoris was born in
 Schlettstadt, a nearby town, he must be the source of the story.
 169 This is a convenient explanation for why certain supposed sorceresses apparently act with
 notable piety. Hence, not only can irreverence mark out someone as a sorceress but so can
 devout behavior!
Part II 110C–111A
 313
 bythedemons’instructions,observecertainotherawfulceremonialrites,
 like spitting on the ground at the time of the Elevation,170 or uttering 110D
 most unspeakable thoughts with or without words, like “I wish you
 were in such-and-such or such-or-such place.”171 (This will be discussed
 presently in Part Two.)172
 Whether visibly both from the point of view of the sorceress and in terms
 of the by-standers
 As for the topic173 as to whether they perform filthy acts of this
 kind with each other visibly or invisibly, it should be said, as far as
 experience174 has taught us, that although the incubus demon always
 works visibly from the point of view of the sorceress (it is not necessary
 for him to approach her invisibly because of the ratified and explicit
 agreement), in terms of the bystanders it is frequently the case that the
 sorceresses were seen lying on their backs in fields or woods, naked above
 the navel and gesticulating with their forearms and thighs. They keep
 their limbs in an arrangement suitable for that filthy act, while the 111A
 incubus demons work with them invisibly in terms of the bystanders,
 although at the end of the act a very black vapor would (very rarely) rise
 up from the sorceress into the air up to the height of a human.
 With reference to the basis on which the infamous Contriver of a
 ThousandDeceits175 knowshowtoenticeorchangethecircumstancesof
 youngwomenorthemindsofotherhumans,therewillbeanexplanation
 in Part Twooftheseeventsandofhowsuchactswereperformedinmany
 places (both in the town of Ravensburg and in the lands ruled by the
 Von Roppelstein176 noblemen and certain other lands).
 In addition, it is certain that it has happened that the husbands visibly
 perceived the incubus demons performing such acts with their wives,
 thoughtheythoughtthemtobenotdemonsbutmen.Whentheyseized
 170 I.e., of the host.
 171 Presumably, this refers to wishing that someone were in hell or the like.
 172 This reference within the text of Pt. 2 to a later discussion “in Part Two” provides evidence that
 the present discussion of the details of women’s subordination to demons has been moved from
 its original location in Pt. 1.
 173 I.e., the fourth one laid out in 105D.
 174 Presumably other people’s!
 175 I.e., the Devil.
 176 Never mentioned elsewhere in the text (conceivably this story is one in which “considerations
 of charity” have led to the suppression of the names). They had their residence at Rappolsweiler
 (modern Ribeauville) to the southwest of Schlettstadt, and their territory is now known as
 Haut-Ribeaupierre in France.
314
 The Hammer of Witches 111A–C
 their weapons and attempted to stab them, the demons suddenly disap
peared bymakingthemselvesinvisible. Then,thewomenwouldholdup
 their hands and arms in defense, and although they had sometimes been
 harmed,177 they would make fun of their husbands, asking in rebuke if
 they had eyes or if they were possessed by demons.
 111B
 111C
 That incubus demons harass not merely women begotten from their
 f
 ilthy acts or those offered up by midwives but any women at all without
 distinction, with greater or lesser sexual pleasure 178
 Finalconclusion.178 It can be said that the incubus demons are
 not merely aggressive towards women begotten from their filthy acts or
 towards those offered to them by midwives, but with their whole effort
 they hanker after all the holiest virgins of a given179 land or town, having
 the sorceresses lead them astray or couple them together. This is what
 experience, which is the instructor of facts, has taught, in that certain
 women whowere burned up in the town of Ravensburg asserted before
 f
 inal sentence something like this, that their masters had enjoined them
 tostrive withtheirentireefforttooverthrowtheholyvirginsandwidows.
 Regarding the question of whether the sexual pleasure is greater or
 lesser with incubus demons in an assumed body than with men in a
 real body, if all things are equal, it seems that it must be said that
 although the natural order gives less excuse for this since it is greater
 whenlike plays with like, nonetheless when the infamous Contriver of a
 Thousand Deceits180 joins appropriate active elements with appropriate
 passive ones (appropriate in qualities like heat or some temperament,
 though not in nature), he clearly rouses no lesser feeling of lust. (In
 what follows there will be a broader explanation of this in terms of the
 condition of the female sex.)181
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 4:
 Aq., Sent. 2.8.1.2, 3, 4, 5]
 177 Presumably, by their demonic paramours.
 178 This section lumps together the second half of the fourth topic with the fifth and sixth laid out
 in 105D. Since the treatment here is rather cursory, perhaps the author has tired of the subject.
 179 The Latin clearly says “of that (illius) land or territory,” but the context seems to demand a
 generality.
 180 I.e., the Devil.
 181 There is no subsequent material to which this reference could be pointing, and the subject
 matter (“the condition of women”) which it seems most naturally to signify is Pt. 1,Q.6 (40A
45B). This seemingly false reference may fit in with the idea that material in Ch. 4 was shifted
 from Pt. 1.
Part II 111C–D
 315
 the general way in which sorceresses practice
 their acts of sorcery through the sacraments
 of the church and on the way in which they
 impede the force of procreation or produce any
 other defects in any creations, except for the
 heavenly bodies
 Chapter Five
 AS for how they taint other creatures of either sex and the fruits
 of the earth, several things should be noted with regard to the methods
 by which they act: first, how they do so to humans, second, to animals,
 and third to the fruits of the earth.182 With reference to a human, the
 f
 irst topic is how they impede the force of procreation (the sexual act)
 with acts of sorcery, intending to prevent the woman from conceiving 111D
 or the man from carrying out the act.183 The second is how this act is
 sometimes impededinrespect to one womanbutnotanother.Thethird
 is how malemembersaretaken awayas if they have been altogether torn
 out of the body. The fourth is how to distinguish if any of the preceding
 events happen through the powerofademoninflictingitbyhimselfand
 not through a sorceress. The fifth is how sorceresses transform humans
 of either sex into beasts through the art of conjuring. The sixth is how
 midwife sorceresses kill fetuses in the mother’s womb in various ways,
 and how they offer the babies to the demons when they do not kill the
 fetuses.
 To make sure that these statements are not considered unbelievable,
 decisions about them were reached in Part One of the work through the
 182 These are the second, third and fourth topics laid out in 86A–B.
 183 The following outline is actually a much better description of Qs. 8–11 of Pt. 1, where Q. 8
 (52C–55D) deals with impeding procreation (=topic one here), incidental doubt of Q. 8 treats
 whyamanissometimesaffectedwithrespect to one womanandnotanother(=topictwo),Q.9
 (56A–59B)treats removal of the penis (=topic three), incidental doubt of Q.9 (58B–D)discusses
 howtodistinguish a removal through sorcery from one caused by a demon(thoughtheheading
 indicates that the question should be distinguishing sorcery from natural defect) (=topic four),
 Q. 10 (59B–63C) treats turning men into beasts (=topic five), and Q. 11 (63D–64B) treats the
 murder of fetuses by midwives (=topic six). The subsequent material here in Part Two is similar,
 but diverges notably. Ch. 6 (114A–115A) corresponds to topic one, Ch. 7 (115A–118D) to topic
 three, a paragraph of Ch. 7 (with a direct allusion to Pt. 1) treats the matter of distinguishing
 the removal of the penis by a demon alone from removal carried out by a sorceress (118C–D),
 which corresponds to topic four, and Ch. 8 (118D–121A) corresponds to topic five. Topic two
 is not mentioned in Pt. ii at all, and miscarriages caused by midwives are treated incidentally
 in Ch. 6 and in a separate discussion much later in Ch. 13 (137A–141D). The explanation of all
 this is presumably that the introduction here was originally placed in Pt. 1 and later transferred
 (without modification) along with material in Ch. 4, but the subsequent material in Pt. 1 was
 treated in a somewhat different manner from the corresponding material that follows here.
316
 The Hammer of Witches 111D–112B
 112A
 112B
 questions and solutions to the arguments, and if necessary the doubtful
 reader can return to them to track down the truth.184 For the present,
 only deeds and events that were discovered by us or that were narrated
 by others in writing are to be described as a public indication of the
 revulsion felt for so great a crime. The intention is that if perchance the
 preceding questions are difficult for someonetounderstand,hemaytake
 faith from the things that are related in the present Part Two and recoil
 from the error by which he held the view that there was no sorceress in
 the world or that no acts of sorcery could happen.
 Hence, it should first be noted that they can harm humans in six ways
 apart from the ways in which they harm other creatures. The first is the
 one in which they inflict evil love for a woman on some man or for a
 manonsomewoman.Thenextistheoneinwhichtheycause hatred or
 envy to growinsomeone.Thethirdconcernsthemenwhoaresaidtobe
 affected by sorcery so that they are unable to use the force of procreation
 withawomanorconverselywhenwomenarekeptfromconceivingfrom
 the manoraremadetomiscarryinotherways,aswasdiscussedabove.185
 The fourth is when they make a person ail in some limb. The fifth is
 when they deprive him of life. The sixth is when they take away the use
 of reason. At the same time, it is necessary to admit that in connection
 with every kind of thing, with the exception of the heavenly bodies,
 they can, as a result of natural virtue, inflict true defects and true forms
 of illness, though not true forms of health (as a result of the powerful
 natural and spiritual virtue by which they surpass every bodily virtue).
 Since no illness (or natural defect when an illness is lacking) corresponds
 to another, their procedures for the various illnesses and defects clearly
 involve different methods. Regarding these methods let us adduce a few
 examples to the extent demanded by necessity.
 Before this, however, to prevent the mind of the reader from remain
ing in suspense as to why they can make no change in the heavenly
 184 It is not self-evident which statements it is that are considered potentially unbelievable. In 64A
 the assertion that sorceresses eat babies is said to be virtually unbelievable were it not for their
 corroboration in Nider’s writings, which might suggest that the similar killing of fetuses is what
 is meant here. In 46A, however, it is stated that the unbelievability of sorceresses’ turning men’s
 mindstolove or hate is to be countered through a discussion in the form of a question, so, given
 the reference to multiple questions and solutions to arguments here, the reference presumably
 includes all the matters discussed in Qs. 8–11 in Pt. 1.
 In terms of the issue of whether the immediately preceding outline of topics has been
 transferred from Pt. 1, it should be noted that the present sentence is introduced rather clumsily
 with et (“and”), and its relevance to what precedes is by no means clear, which may suggest that
 it was tagged on to the transferred outline.
 185 I.e., in the preceding paragraph?
Part II 112B–D
 317
 bodies, let us say that there are three different reasons for this. First,
 the heavenly bodies are above the demons in terms of the place of their
 penalty as well, since this place is the misty air (assigned to them because
 of their job; seeabove,QuestionTwo186 inPartOneofthetreatise,which
 concerns incubus and succubus demons).187 The second reason is that
 the heavenly bodies are moved by good angels (see many passages on
 the movers of the spheres, especially Thomas in Prima Pars Q. 110).188 112C
 (In this, the philosophers are in agreement with the theologians.) The
 third reason is the governance and common good of the universe, which
 wouldbelessened inageneral sense if evil spirits were permitted to cause
 changes in the heavenly bodies. Hence, the changes made miraculously
 byGodintheOldandNewTestamentswerecarriedoutbythemoversof
 the heavenlybodies(goodangels).Suchwasthecasewiththestoppingof
 thesununderJoshua[Joshua10:13],itsreversalofcourseunderHezekiah
 [2 Kings 20:11], and its unnatural darkening during the Passion of Christ
 [Matthew 27:45]. Since that time, the demons have been able, with
 God’s permission, to practice their acts of sorcery in connection with
 all the elements and all the things composed of those elements, both by
 themselves without sorceresses and with sorceresses, and in fact they do
 not cease to do so, as will be explained.
 Second, it should be noted that in all the methods of making an effect
 through sorcery, for the most part they always instruct the sorceresses
 to create the devices for their evil will through the Sacraments or Sacra
mentals189 of the Church or through divine objects (those consecrated to
 God). For instance, they place a wax image temporarily under the Altar 112D
 or drawastring throughtheHolyOiloruseanythingconsecrated.They
 do this for three reasons, which are just like the reasons that they usually
 practice their acts of sorcery at the more holy times of the year, espe
cially around the time of the Advent of the Lord and the Festival of the
 Nativity. The first is that people should not simply become breakers of
 the Faith thereby but should also become sacrilegious by contaminating
 divine objects to the extent that they can. In this way they will further
 186 Presumably Q. 4 is meant (29B–C; cf. 25A, 27B).
 187 The “misty air” is the area intervening between the earth and spheres on which the heavenly
 bodies are carried, and in medieval cosmology this was the place where the fallen angels dwelt;
 see 27B, 29B–C.
 188 If this is the question alluded to (the Latin text is doubtful), Aquinas hints at the movement of
 the spheres (see Pt. 1 n. 278) by the angels but does not directly discuss it.
 189 “Sacramental” is the ecclesiastical technical term for an observance that was not strictly num
bered among the seven formal sacraments (baptism, confirmation, communion, confession,
 marriage, holy orders, extreme unction) but was considered analogous to them, for instance,
 the use of holy water and making the sign of the cross.
318
 The Hammer of Witches 112D–113B
 113A
 113B
 offend God, their Creator, condemn the sorceresses’ own souls more
 profoundly, and make more people fall into sin. The second reason is to
 make God severely offended by men, so that He will leave the demon
 greater power to act with savagery against men. For Gregory190 says that
 in anger God sometimes grants to evil men what they desire and pray
 for, while in propitiousness He denies these same things to others. The
 third reason is that in this way he191 may, in the guise of an apparent
 good thing, more easily deceive simple people when the acts mentioned
 above lead them to think that with the divine objects they have received
 some sort of divine power from God, whereas it is merely the case that
 greater sins have been committed.
 Afourthreasoncanbeaddedwithregardtothemoreholytimesofthe
 year and its beginning. Because festivals are ruined more by mortal sins
 than byworksinvolving the hands192 according to Augustine in the Book
 on the Ten Chords [Sermo 9.3] (“Superstition concerning the demons’
 very servile works violates reverence to God, as do acts of sorcery”),193
 he makes humans fall deeper, as has been said, and the Creator is more
 offended. Regarding the beginning of the year, we can say in accordance
 withIsidore (Etymologies,Bk.8, Ch. 2 [see 5.33.3]) that Janus, after whom
 was named the month of January (which also begins on the Day of the
 Circumcision),194 wasanidolmadewithdifferentfaces,onerepresenting
 the end of the preceding year, the other the beginning of the following
 one, and in order that he should protect the coming year and make
 it well fortuned, the pagans would, as a form of reverence for him (or
 rather for the demon), make various wanton disturbances, give each
 other NewYear’s presents and jests, perform various dances, and prepare
 feasts. St. Augustine mentions these things in many passages, and they
 are recounted in various questions throughout virtually the whole of 26
 [Decretum, 2.26.7.16]. In the present day, evil Christians imitate these
 corrupt practices, although intermsofdebaucherytheyhavetransferred
 these acts to Carnival, when they run around with costumes, games and
 other superstitions.195 Similarly, as a result of the demons’ persuading,
 190 The source (Nider) actually attributes this to Augustine.
 191 I.e., the Devil.
 192 I.e., physical labor.
 193 This clause is an (ungrammatical) addition to the quotation given in the source (Nider).
 194 According to Luke 2:21, Christ was circumcised on the eighth day after his birth, and therefore
 since the birth was dated to December 25, the Feast of the Circumcision was celebrated on
 January 1.
 195 Carnival is the term for the revelry that precedes the solemnity of Lent. Church moralists
 were prone to censure the frolicking that people engaged in before the fasting and gloom that
 characterized Lent.
Part II 113B–D
 319
 in terms of worship during Divine Office196 sorceresses too now practice
 their acts of sorcery around the beginning of the year (for instance, the
 feast of St. Andrew and the festivities of Christmas) in order to please
 the demons.
 Now with regard in particular to how they perform such acts, first
 through the Sacraments and then through Sacramentals, let us relate
 some events that happened recently and were discovered by us through
 inquisition. There is a town that it would not be helpful to name, since
 considerations ofcharityandreasonorderandurgethis.Here,asorceress
 took the Body of the Lord,197 and with a quick lowering of her head, as
 is the loathsome practice of women, she put her veil to her mouth and
 pushed the Body of the Lord out into the piece of cloth, wrapping it up.
 She placed it (by the Devil’s instructions) in a jar in which there was a
 toad and hid it in the ground in a barn near the granary of her house,
 along with very many other objects that she had added by which she
 was able to practice her acts of sorcery. Through the assistance of God’s 113C
 piety, however, such a great crime was revealed and came to the light of
 day. For the next day, when a hired hand was making his way near the
 barn to reach his job, he heard a voice, seemingly of a child wailing. The
 closer he got to reaching the flooring under which the jar was hidden,
 the more clearly he heard it, and thinking that a baby had been buried
 by awoman,hewenttotheSchultheiss (the local magistrate) and related
 the event, which had been committed, in his estimation, by a parricide.
 Whenservants198 were quickly dispatched, the situation was found to be
 just as the man had related. They were unwilling to dig up the child,199
 but instead devised a sensible plan (not knowing that the Body of the
 Lord was hidden there). They placed guards at a distance and had them
 wait in case a woman approached. Hence it happened that while these
 men kept watch secretly, the sorceress came to the place and hid the jar
 under her outer garment. She was then arrested, and when exposed to
 questioning under torture, she revealed the crime. She claimed that the
 Body of the Lord had been hidden in the jar with the toad so that from 113D
 the dust200 she could inflict her injuries on humans or other creatures
 as she wished.201
 196 I.e., the mass.
 197 I.e., the consecrated host used in communion.
 198 I.e., men employed by the magistrate.
 199 An odd reaction.
 200 I.e., what was left over after the decomposition of the contents.
 201 While one may be dubious about the wailing of the host, it is conceivable that the woman
 did steal the host for magical (though not necessarily evil) purposes. As later medieval notions
320
 The Hammer of Witches 113D–114A
 In addition, it should be noted that when sorceresses taking Com
munion observe the custom of taking the Body of the Lord under and
 not above the tongue if they can manage this without being noticed,
 they do this for the following reasons, as can be guessed. The first is so
 that they will never wish to receive a remedy for the renunciation of the
 Faith, either through Confession or through receiving the Sacrament of
 the Eucharist. The second is to make it easier for the Body of the Lord
 to be taken from the mouth to be used for the sorceresses’ purposes, as
 has been stated, which results in greater offence to the Creator. Hence,
 the rectors of all churches and those who give Communion to the con
gregation are enjoined that they should always take the greatest care to
 ensure that women take communion with the mouth very wide open,
 the tongue properly stuck out and the veil pulled back. The greater the
 care taken, the greater the number of sorceresses noticed in this way.
 114A
 Regarding Sacramental objects, they practice countless superstitions.
 Sometimes they place wax images, sometimes aromatic ones, under the
 altar cloth, as has been discussed,202 and then hide them under the
 threshold of a house, so that the person for whom it has been placed will
 be affected by sorcery through passing by. Countless examples could be
 cited, but the lesser acts of sorcery are proven by the greater ones.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 5:
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.19, 20]
 the method by which they impede the force
 of procreation
 Chapter Six
 REGARDINGthemethodbywhichtheyimpedetheactofprocre
ation both in humans and in domestic animals of both sexes, the reader
 can inform himself from the discussion above in the question203 as to
 whether demons are able to turn the minds of humans to love or hatred.
 There, after the solutions to the arguments, a specific explanation is
 of piety increasingly attributed divine power to the consecrated host, people did undertake to
 makeoff with it for their own purposes (for the reverence and abuse of the host, see Hsia [1988],
 9–11). Once the crime was discovered, the use of torture turned it into something rather more
 sinister.
 202 112C–D.
 203 Pt. 1,Q.7 (46A–52B).
Part II 114A–C
 321
 given regarding the methods by they are able to impede the force of
 procreation with God’s permission.204 In this regard it should be noted
 that such an impediment is carried out in two ways, from within and
 from without. It is done from within in two ways. In the first, they
 directlysuppressthehardnessofthememberappropriateforpropagation
 (this should notbeviewedasimpossible,sinceinotherwaystheyareable
 to impede the natural motion in any limb). In the second, they prevent 114B
 the sending of spirits to the limbs in which the power of motion resides,
 by cutting off the seed’s paths, as it were, so that it cannot descend to the
 vessels of procreation or be separated out or sent forth. Externally, they
 sometimes cause this through images or as the result of eating plants,
 sometimes through other external objects, like the testicles of roosters
 or the eating of plants.205
 It should not be believed that a manis rendered impotent throughthe
 virtue of these things. Instead, with the demons’ hidden virtue, which
 makes anillusion, the sorceresses can affect the force of procreation with
 sorcery by means of such things, preventing a man from being able to
 couple or a woman from being able to conceive. The reason for this is
 that Godgives permission more in connection with this act, which is the
 one through which the first sin is spread, than with other human acts.
 This is also the case with snakes, which are more useful for incantations
 than are other animals, and as a result it has frequently been found by us
 andother inquisitors that they used snakes and snakeskins to inflict such
 impediments. A certain sorcerer under arrest confessed that over many 114C
 years he had used sorcery to inflict barrenness on the inhabitants of a
 certain house, affecting both the humans and the domestic animals. In
 addition, Nider (cited above) reports that a certain sorcerer by the name
 of Stadlin was captured in the diocese of Lausanne and he confessed
 that in a certain house, where a man and wife were living together, with
 his acts of sorcery he had killed seven babies one after the other in the
 womb of the man’s wife. This resulted in the woman always having
 miscarriages over the course of many years. He did a similar thing to
 all the pregnant herding and domestic animals in the same house, none
 of them bringing forth a live birth during those same years. When the
 sorcerer was questioned under torture as to how he had caused such
 204 Actually, this “explanation” is Q. 8 (52C–55D).
 205 The source (Nider) merely referred to the use of “beans and the testicles of roosters.” This
 twofold specification of external and internal use is a typical scholastic elaboration, and its
 author seems not to have been able to decide whether plants fall in the internal or the external
 category.
322
 The Hammer of Witches 114C–115A
 114D
 115A
 things and in what way he could be guilty, he revealed the crime, saying,
 “Underneath the threshold of the door to the house I placed a snake,
 and if it is removed, fertility will be restored to the inhabitants.” And
 it turned out just as he had foretold. For although the snake was not
 found, having beenreducedtodust,nonetheless they completely carried
 off the earth, and in the same year fertility was restored to the wife and
 all the domestic animals.
 Another deed happened in Reichshofen a few years ago (barely four).
 A certain sorceress was very notorious for knowing how to affect with
 sorcery and how to cause a miscarriage by touch alone at any hour. At
 this time, the wife of a certain powerful man was pregnant and, having
 taken to herself a certain midwife for protection, she was advised by this
 midwife not to leave the castle and in particular to avoid conversing and
 interacting with that sorceress. A few weeks later, she disregarded this
 advice and left the castle to visit some women who were gathered at a
 banquet.Aftershehadsatthereforalittlewhile,thesorceressshowedup.
 Whenthesorceresstouchedtheladyonthebellywithbothhandsasifin
 greeting, the woman suddenly felt the child moving with pain. In terror,
 she fled back homefromthere, andwhenshetoldthemidwife whathad
 happened,themidwifecriedout,“Oh,no!Youhavenowlostyourchild!”
 And it turned out in the birth as the midwife predicted. The woman
 gave birth not to an intact miscarriage but to pieces: now the head, now
 the feet and hands. Clearly this was a great chastisement caused by God’s
 permission in order to punish him, that is, the husband. For he ought
 to punish such sorceresses and avenge their insults to the Creator.206
 In the town of Meersburg in the diocese of Constance, there was a
 certain young man who was affected by sorcery to such an extent that
 he was not able to carry out the carnal act except with one woman.
 In the hearing of many he related that it was very often the case that
 when he tried to reject her and to take flight and live in other lands,
 sometimes during the night-time he would get up and return quickly
 with the swiftest running, now over the earth, now through the air as if
 f
 lying.207
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 6:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.3, 5]
 206 Presumably, this man had in some way obstructed Institoris in an inquisition.
 207 This mansoundsmorelike someone whoseattraction to this woman was at variance with some
 other consideration.
Part II 115A–C
 323
 the way in which they take away
 male members
 Chapter Seven
 IN addition, let us cite a few illustrations to show that they take
 away male members, not, of course, by stripping human bodies of them
 in reality but by concealing them with the art of conjuring, as was 115B
 explained above in the question previously mentioned.208
 In the town of Ravensburg a certain young man was attached to a
 young woman, and when he wished to set her aside, he lost his male
 member, clearly though the art of conjuring, with the result that he
 could not see or feel his body as anything but smooth.209 Being worried,
 he then went to a certain cellar to buy some wine, and while he was
 sitting there for a while, another woman showed up and he revealed
 to her the reason for his sadness, relating the details and showing that
 he was so in body. Being clever, she asked whether he considered any
 woman suspect. When he specified her identity, mentioning her name
 and relating what had happened, the woman said, “When benevolence
 does you no good, it would be best to prevail upon her with violence in
 order to regain your health.” At dusk, the young man watched the path
 wherethesorceress would regularly pass by. After finding her, he pleaded
 with her to return to him the health of his body, but she claimed that
 shewas innocent and knew nothing. He then attacked her and, tying a 115C
 handkerchief tight around her throat, he pulled it taut, saying, “Unless
 you restore my health to me, you will die at my hands.” Then, because
 she could not shout and her swollen face was now turning black, she
 said, “Release me and I will make you healthy.” When the young man
 loosened the knot (noose), the sorceress touched him with her hand
 between the thighs (hips), saying, “You now have what you want.” And,
 as he would later recount, before he assured himself with sight or touch,
 the young man noticeably felt that the member had been restored to
 him, just by the touch of the sorceress.
 A certain venerable father, who belonged to the convent210 at Speyer
 and is well known in the Order for his respectable way of life and
 knowledge, often tells a similar story. “One day,” he says, “when I was
 208 The most recent citation is at the start of Ch. 6 (114A), where Pt. 1,Q.7 is mentioned and
 Q. 8 implied. In fact, the reference here is to Q. 9 (56A–59B).
 209 I.e., the skin at the groin is perceived as being flat, without the protuberance of the male
 reproductive organs.
 210 I.e., of Dominican friars.
324
 The Hammer of Witches 115C–116B
 115D
 116A
 116B
 engaged in hearing confessions, a certain young man showed up, and in
 his confession he claimed sorrowfully that he had lost his male member.
 I was astonished and did not wish to believe his words lightly, since
 the man who believes lightly is judged to be fickle-minded by the wise
 man.211 So,Idiscoveredthetruththroughexperience,perceivingnothing
 by sight when the young man removed his clothes and showed me
 the place. Then, I came up with a sensible plan and asked whether he
 considered any woman suspect. The young man said that he did, but
 she was away, living in Worms. Then I said, ‘Here are my instructions
 for you. Approach her as soon as possible and strive, to best of your
 abilities, to soften her with promises and enticing words,’ which is what
 he did do. A few days later he returned to thank me, claiming that he
 had regained every thing. I believed his words, though I was once more
 made certain through visual experience.”
 Atthis point, a few things should be noted for a clearer understanding
 of the previous discussion of this topic. First, it should in no way be
 believed that such members are torn out of or separated from the body.
 Instead, they are hidden by the demon through the art of conjuring, so
 that they can be neither seen nor touched. This is shown by authority
 and reason (this was discussed above).212 Alexander of Hales (Part Two)
 [2/1.2.3.2.3.3.3.Solutio] says: “Properly speaking, conjuring is an illusion
 of the demon. This has no cause from the point of view of a change
 in the thing but only from the point of view of the perceiver, who
 is deceived, in terms of either the internal or the external senses of
 perception.” In connection with these words, it should be noted that
 in this instance the illusion is played on the two external senses (sight
 and touch), and not on the internal ones (the common sense, fantasy,
 the force of imagination, that of estimation, and memory). (St. Thomas
 posits only four, as was stated above,213 because he posits a single force
 of fantasy and imagination, and rightly so. For there is little difference
 between using the imagination and the fantasy (Thomas in First Part,
 Question 79 [Summa 1.79.4.Co.])). It is these senses, and not merely
 the external ones, that are changed, since nothing is hidden or revealed,
 either inwakefulnessorsleeping.Thishappensduringwakefulnesswhen
 athingseemsdifferentfromwhatitreallyis.Forexample,whensomeone
 sees another person eating a horse with its rider or considering in his
 estimation that a human has been turned into a wild animal or that he
 211 The last clause is a reference to Ezechiel 19:4.
 212 Pt. 1,Q.9 (56A–59B).
 213 48A.
Part II 116B–D
 325
 himself is a wild animal and ought to walk with wild animals.214 In that
 case, it is the external senses that are deceived by the internal ones, which
 take possession of them. For the virtue of the demons brings out pictures
 derived from the senses of perception that have long been stored in the
 storehouse of such pictures. This is the memory, and not that faculty
 of the intellect in which pictures of the intellect are kept. For it is the
 memorythatpreservespicturesderivedfromthesenseofperception,and
 it is in the front part of the head. Sometimes, with God’s permission,
 thesepicturesarebroughtoutbythevirtueofthedemonstothecommon
 sense and the faculty of imagination, and are so strongly impressed on
 them that, since he necessarily has to imagine a horse or wild animal
 through the violent act by which the demon brings out of the memory
 the picture of a horse or wild beast, he necessarily has to consider in his
 estimation that with his external eyes he is seeing just such a horse or
 a wild animal. In this case, though, there is no wild beast outside him,
 but there seems to be one because of the violent working of the demon,
 these pictures acting as intermediaries. Nor should it seem a wonder
 that the demons have this power, sincenature, even when defective, has 116C
 it. This is clearly the case with the frenetic people, melancholy people,
 maniacs and certain drunks who do not have the power of discernment.
 The frenetic think that they have seen wondrous things and are seeing
 wild beasts and other horrible things, though nothing is happening in
 reality. (See above on the question215 of whether sorceresses are able to
 turn the minds of humans to love or hatred, where many observations
 are made.)
 There is a self-evident explanation. Since the demon has a certain
 power over certain lower216 things, with the exception only of the soul,
 heis also able, whenGodallows,tomakecertainchangesinthesethings,
 so that things appear different from what they are. As has been said, he
 does this either by throwing into confusion or playing an illusion on the
 organofsight,sothataclearthingseemscloudy(forexample,aftercrying
 the light seems different from before because of the gathered humors)
 or by working on the force of imagination through a transformation of
 the pictures derived from the senses of perception, as has been said, or
 by setting various humors in motion, so that things that are earthy or
 dry seem fiery or watery. For instance, certain people cause all those in 116D
 214 Cf. the anecdote in 63B of the man who thought he was a wolf.
 215 Pt. 1,Q.7 (46A–52B).
 216 I.e., lower than the “misty air,” where the demons reside (see n. 187).
326
 The Hammer of Witches 116D–117B
 a dwelling place to take off their clothes and strip because they think
 that they are swimming in water.
 117A
 117B
 If, in connection with the method discussed above, a further question
 is raised about whether illusions of this kind can happen to the good
 and evil without distinction, just as other bodily illnesses can, as will be
 explained below,217 be inflicted by sorceresses even on those in a State
 of Grace, it should be said in accordance with the words of Cassian
 (Second Conference, about Abbot Serenus)[8.18] that they cannot. Hence,
 all those who have illusions played on them in this way are presumed
 to be in a state of mortal sin. For Cassian says, “From the words of
 Anthony it is clear that a demon cannot in any way assail someone’s
 mind or body or have any ability to rush upon anyone’s soul unless he
 f
 irst makes it bereft of all holy thoughts and renders it empty of spiritual
 contemplation and naked.” This agrees with what Philosophy states to
 Boethius in Consolation,Bk. 1: “I had bestowed upon you such arms
 that if you had not first cast them aside, they would be protecting
 you with unvanquished steadfastness.” Next, Cassian mentions in the
 same passage two pagan sorcerers who, differing in evil, used acts of
 sorcery to send demons one after the other to the cell of St. Anthony.
 The purpose was that these demons were to drive him from there with
 temptations. For the two pagans were poisoned with hatred for the
 holy man because a multitude of people would gather by him every
 day. Although these demons buffeted Anthony with the bitterest goads
 consisting of thoughts, he always repelled them by pressing the Sign
 of the Cross into his forehead and chest and by constantly engaging in
 prayer. Thus, we can say that in the absence of other bodily illnesses, all
 those who have such tricks played upon them by demons clearly fail to
 have divine Grace dwelling in them. Hence the passage, “As for those
 who are devoted to lust, in this the Devil receives power”218 (Tobias
 6[:17]). The discussion in Part One219 of the treatise on the question of
 whether sorceresses work on humans by transforming them into wild
 beasts is in agreementwiththis.There,ayoungwomanwaschangedinto
 a horse in her estimation and in that of everyone who saw her.220 The
 only exception was St. Macharius, on whose senses the Devil was unable
 to play illusions. When she was brought to him for healing, he saw the
 real woman andnotahorse, while conversely everyone else shouted that
 217 117D.
 218 This quotation is a misquotation of the source (Nider), which reads, “Over those who are
 devoted to lust the Devil receives power;” this in turn is a paraphrase of the Biblical passage.
 219 Q. 10 (59B–62D).
 220 61A.
Part II 117B–D
 327
 she seemed ahorse to them.Withhisprayers the holy manfreed her and
 the others from this illusion, asserting221 that this had happened to her
 because she was not devoted to Divine Service, nor did she frequently
 attend the Sacraments (Confession and the Eucharist), as she should
 have. For this reason, although out of her sense of respectability she
 rejected the young man who had importuned her about a base act, the
 Jewish sorcerer222 whom the young man solicited to affect the young
 woman with sorcery had turned her into a horse through the virtue of
 a demon.
 Insummation,letusconcludethatthegoodcanbeharmedbydemons
 andtheir adherents in the good things of fortune (external things such as
 temporal goods, reputation and bodily health) in order to test the good
 and winthemmerit,aswasclearly the case with the saintly Job, who was
 harmedinsuchthingsbythedemon, andthatalthoughthegoodcanbe 117C
 tempted in the flesh from the inside and from the outside, the demons
 cannot either actively or passively impose such illusions of the fantasy on
 the good against their will, just as people cannot be drawn or forced to
 any sin through acts of sorcery. When the demons do this actively, they
 have to impose the illusion on their senses of perception, as is the case
 with those not in a State of Charity,223 and when they do this passively,
 they have totakeawaytheirlimbsthroughtheillusion of conjuring. The
 devil would never have beenable toinflict these two sorts of harm onthe
 saintly Job, especially not the passive one involving the sexual act, since
 Job was so self-restrained that he could say, “I have made an agreement
 with myeyes not even to think about a maiden” [Job 31:1] (and a fortiori
 about someone else’s woman), though it is recognized from the words
 of the Gospel of Luke 11[:21] (“When a brave man guards his courtyard
 in arms, all the things that he possesses are in peace”) that the demon
 has great power over sinners.
 If, on the basis of these statements, someone grants, with reference
 to illusions involving the male member, that a demon could not inflict
 an illusion in a passive way on someone in the state of Grace, but asks 117D
 whether a demoncould dosoinanactive way, that is, so that an illusion
 in his vision would be inflicted upon the person in the state of Grace in
 that he would see the member attached, though the one who considers
 in his estimation that it has been taken away from him would not see
 221 Actually, in the source (Nider) this was the woman’s assertion.
 222 Jews were frequently associated with sorcery in medieval Christian thought.
 223 Here, the word “charity” seems to be little more than a synonym for “grace,” though strictly
 speaking it is a separate notion (see n. 495).
328
 The Hammer of Witches 117D–118B
 it attached nor would the bystanders,224 which, if it is conceded, seems
 to contradict the foregoing, it can be said that there is less force in the
 active loss than there is in the passive loss (understanding “active” not
 in terms of the one who inflicted it actively but in terms of the one who
 sees the loss from outside, as is self-evident), and therefore, although
 the person in the state of Grace could see someone else’s loss, and in
 connection with this other person the demon could play an illusion on
 his senses, the demon could not passively inflict on him this sort of loss
 (being deprived of his member), since he is not devoted to lust. To the
 contrary, “As for those who serve lust, the demon receives power,” as the
 angel says to Tobias.
 118A
 118B
 As for what pronouncement should be made about those sorceresses
 who sometimes keep large numbers of these members (twenty or thirty
 at once) in a bird’s nest or in some cabinet, where the members move as
 if alive or eat a stalk or fodder, as many have seen and the general report
 relates, it should be said that these things are all carried out through
 the Devil’s working and illusion. In this case, an illusion is played on
 the viewers’ senses of perception in the ways discussed above. A certain
 man reported that when he had lost his member and gone to a certain
 sorceress to regain his well-being, she told the sick man that he should
 climb a certain tree and granted that he could take whichever one he
 wanted from the nest, in which there were very many members. When
 he tried to take a particular large one, the sorceress said, “You shouldn’t
 take that one,” adding that it belonged to one of the parish priests.225
 Thepronouncement is that all this clearly happened through an illusion
 of conjuring carried out by demons in the ways mentioned above, the
 demonsthrowingtheorganofsightintoconfusionbyshiftingpicturesof
 perception to the faculty of imagination. It should not be claimed that in
 members assumed in this way there are demons showing themselves, in
 the way that in assumed bodies made from air they appear to sorceresses
 andsometimes to other humans, and interact with them. The reason is
 thattheycandothesethingsinaneasierway,thatis,byinternallymoving
 in location the pictures derived from the senses of perception from the
 faculty of preservation (faculty of memory) to that of imagining.
 224 The sense seems to be that while the demon cannot make the holy person imagine that his
 member has been removed, he can make others imagine this of the holy person. Apparently,
 “vision” here means not his own ability to see but how he is seen by others.
 225 Clearly, this story is nothing more than a joke (in the romance languages words meaning “bird”
 are frequently euphemisms for the penis) about the lechery of parish priests, who often kept
 illegitimate “wives” in violation of their ostensible celibacy and begot children. To take such a
 tale at face value shows the author’s credulity (and lack of a sense of humor).
Part II 118B–D
 329
 If someone should say that they could do so in a way similar to
 the situations when it is stated that they interact with sorceresses or
 other humans in assumed bodies, that is, that they would make such
 apparitions by changing the pictures of perception in the faculty of
 imagination, so that, while the humans thought that the demons were
 present in assumed bodies, there would be only such changes of the
 pictures of perception in the internal faculties, it should be said that if
 the demon wished to show nothing grander than the mere presence of a
 human effigy, then there would certainly be no need for him to appear
 in an assumedbody, since he could achieve this well enough through the
 change mentioned above. As it is, because he has grander activities to
 carry out (for example, speaking, eatingandalsoengaginginfilthyacts), 118C
 it is necessary that he should in fact be present, actually offering himself
 to the vision from the outside in an assumed body, since according to
 the Doctors the virtue of an angel is in the place where he is working.
 In connection with the question in which it is asked whether, in
 a situation where the demon has taken away the male member from
 someone by himself without a sorceress, there is any difference between
 one removal and the other, several things can be said, in addition to
 the discussion in Part One226 of the treatise on the question of whether
 sorceresses are able to take away male members. First, in a situation
 where he has taken away amemberbyhimself, hewouldreally and truly
 take it away and would really and truly restore it whenever he has to
 restore it. Second, he would not take it way without pain, just as he
 would not do so without harm. Third, he would never do this unless
 forced to by a good angel, because in that case he would have to cut off
 the material for his own profit. For he knows how to practice more acts
 of sorcery on that act than on the other human acts, just as God also
 gives more permission for him to affect that act than the other human
 acts with sorcery, as was discussed above.227 All these circumstances are 118D
 irrelevant in a situation where he works through sorceresses with God’s
 permission.
 If there is a doubt as to whether the demon has a greater desire to
 harm humans and creatures by himself than through sorceresses, it can
 be said that there is no comparison. For his desire to harm through
 sorceresses is infinitely greater, first because in that case he inflicts a
 greater insult on God by usurping a creature dedicated to Him; second,
 because when God is more offended, more power to harm humans is
 226 Q. 9 (56A–59B).
 227 45C.
330
 The Hammer of Witches 118D–119B
 granted to him; and third, for the sake of his own profit, which he
 reckons in the damnation of souls.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 7:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5
 Praec. 1.11.11, 18]
 the methods by which they change humans into
 the shapes of wild beasts
 Chapter Eight
 119A
 119B
 IN addition, the fact that sorceresses change humans into the
 forms of wild beasts through the virtue of demons, who are the funda
mental workers of these transformations, has been sufficiently explained
 in Part One of the work, in the question228 discussing whether sorcer
esses are able to bring about such things, but because that question with
 its arguments and solutions may seem to some excessively obscure, espe
cially since deeds and events regarding these matters were not cited and
 because the method by which the sorceresses transform themselves was
 not described, it is necessary to add the present explanation by means
 of solutions to many doubtful points.
 The first is that this well-known Canon (26,Q.5,“Episcopi”) is not
 to be understood with reference to this topic in the bare way in which
 even a fair number of learned men– would that they were properly
 learned!– are deceived, as are those who donothesitate to claim publicly
 in their sermons that these sorts of transformations carried out through
 conjuring can in no way happen, even by the virtue of demons. (This
 clearly results in great damage to the Faith, as has often been mentioned,
 and in the encouragement of the sorceresses, who in fact greatly rejoice
 at such sermons.)
 This happens to these preachers because they busy themselves with
 the surface and not the marrow of the Canon’s words. For when it says,
 “Whoever believes that some creature can be made or changed for the
 better orfortheworstortransformedintoanothervarietyorintoanother
 likeness, except by the Creator Himself, Who made all things, is without
 a doubt an infidel,” at this point the pious reader should pay attention
 228 Q. 10 (59C–63C).
Part II 119B–D
 331
 to two fundamental points, the first concerning the word “be made,”
 and the second concerning the words “turned into another likeness.”
 Regarding the first passage, let his mind be resolved that “be made”
 is understood in two ways: as “created” and as “through the natural
 production of some thing.” To do so in the first way is appropriate, as
 is known, for God alone, since with His unlimited power He can create
 something from nothing. With reference to doing so in the second way,
 a distinction should be made in terms of creatures, since they are either
 perfect creatures, like man, donkey and so on, or imperfect ones like
 snakes, frogs, mice and so on, which are called imperfect because they
 can also be generated from the process of rotting. The Canon always
 speaks of the first group and not the second, which can be explained
 on the grounds that when Albert asks in his book Animals229 whether
 demons can make real animals, he answers that they can, but only 119C
 in terms of imperfect animals. He also makes the distinction that the
 demon does not work in an instant, the way that God does, but with
 a movement, however sudden, as is clearly the case with sorceresses
 (Exodus 7[:11]). If you please, see some statements in the question cited
 in Part One of the work in the solution to the first argument.230
 Regarding the second passage, in which it is mentioned that they
 cannot change any creature, you should say that there are two kinds of
 change, either in substance or in an incidental trait, and that in turn
 there are two varieties of the latter in that such a change is caused either
 by a form231 that is natural and inherent to the thing that is seen or
 by a form that is not inherent to the thing that is seen but inherent to
 the organs and faculties of the viewer. It is the first sort that the Canon
 speaks of, especially a change in form or quality.232 This is the way that
 one substance is changed into another, the kind of change that only
 God, who is the creator of all such qualities, can make.
 The Canon also speaks of the second change. It is true that a demon
 can bring that one about to the extent that, through illnesses inflicted
 with divine permission, some incidental form is produced in the body, 119D
 for instance when a face appears to have leprosy or the like, but we are
 speaking specifically not of such matters but of an apparition caused by
 conjuring. In this sort of apparition, things seem to be changed into
 229 Ultimate source unknown.
 230 62A–B.
 231 For the sense, see n. 118.
 232 “Quality” translates the Latin quiditas or “what-ness,” a scholastic neologism for the “essence”
 or “substance” of something (which answers the question “what is the thing?”). Here the term
 refers to the quality that results from the action of the form on the physical matter.
332
 The Hammer of Witches 119D–120B
 other likenesses. Hence, we say that the Canon (chapter cited) cannot
 exclude these changes because they are derived by authority, reason and
 experience, as well as from the events that Augustine relates as proofs of
 experience (City of God,Bk.18, Ch. 17). These facts are also explained
 in various questions.
 120A
 120B
 Amongothertransformationscausedbyconjuring,Augustinereports
 that Circe, a most notorious female magician, turned the companions
 of Ulysses into wild beasts, and that certain tavern girls turned their
 customers into beasts of burden.233 He also reports that the companions
 of Diomedes were turned into birds and that for a long time afterwards
 they flew around the temple of Diomedes, and that Praestantius related
 truthfully about his father that the father said that he had been a
 common horse and hauled grain with other animals.
 As for the first story (that the companions of Ulysses were turned
 into wild beasts), in this case certainly it was merely an appearance that
 deceived the eyes, so that the form of a beast was brought forth from the
 repository of pictures (the memory) to the force of imagination. The
 result was both that an imaginary vision was brought into being, and
 that, consequently,thestrongimpressionmadeontheotherfacultiesand
 organs caused the viewer to consider in his estimation that he was seeing
 a wild beast in the way that was discussed in the preceding chapter.234
 (How the virtue of a demon can do such things without harm will be
 explained below.)235
 As for the second story, in which the customers were changed into
 beasts of burden by tavern girls, and the story that the father of Praes
tantius was a horse and carried wheat, it should be noted that in those
 cases there were three deceptions. First, the art of conjuring made it seem
 that those humans had been changed into domestic beasts, a change
 made in the manner discussed above.236 Second, when those burdens
 seemed to surpass the strength of the carriers, demons conveyed them
 invisibly. Third, those who seemed to others to have been changed into
 other appearances also seemed to themselves to have been converted
 into wild beasts, just as happened to Nebuchadnezzar that, when seven
 times237 were changed over him, he ate hay like an ox [Dan. 4:28].238
 233 Cf. 60D.
 234 115D–116D.
 235 Ch. 9 (121A–125C).
 236 115A–116C.
 237 Such is the meaningless text of the Vulgate Bible.
 238 4:32 in English versions.
Part II 120B–D
 333
 AsforthestorythatthecompanionsofDiomedeswereconvertedinto
 birds and flew around the temple, it should be said that this Diomedes
 was in the army of the Greeks at the siege of the city of Troy and was
 drowned in the sea with his companions as he tried to return home, and
 that when a temple was built for him at the prompting of a certain idol,
 as if Diomedes had been added to the number of the gods, to confirm
 this error the demons for a long time flew around the temple as birds,
 in the companions’ place. Hence, in this instance there was a kind of
 superstition that differed from the conjuring tricks mentioned above.
 For it was not by bringing back pictures of perception to the force of
 imagination but by flying as birds in assumed bodies that they showed 120C
 themselves to the eyes of the viewers.
 If it is asked whether they could also have played an illusion on the
 viewers in the way mentioned before, that is, by bringing back perceiv
able pictures, so that the demons would not have shown themselves as
 f
 lying birds in assumed bodies, it should be said that they could have.
 For it is the view of certain people, as St. Thomas relates in the Com
mentary on Pronouncements (Dist. Eight, Art. Two [Sent. 2.8.1.2.Co.]),
 that no angels, whether good or evil, would ever assume bodies, but that
 all the things that are read about their apparitions in the Scriptures were
 done in the form of conjuring tricks or with reference to the imagina
tion’s vision. In connection with these words the Holy Doctor makes
 a distinction between a conjuring trick and the imagination’s vision,
 in that while the conjuring trick can have an object presenting itself
 to the body’s sight from the outside (although it seems different from
 what it is), the imagination’s vision does not necessarily demand that
 the thing be presented externally, but can occur without that external
 presentation and merely through those internal pictures of perception, 120D
 when they are brought to the force of imagination. Hence, in the view
 of these people, the companions of Diomedes were not represented by
 demons in assumed bodies and in the likenesses of birds, but merely by
 a vision of the fantasy and imagination, that is, through bringing back
 those pictures of perception and so on (as above). The Holy Doctor,
 however, rejects this view not as a mere view but as an error, though
 also not as a heresy239 (as the pious belief should perhaps be), since such
 imaginary apparitions were at times used both by good angels and by
 evil ones without assumed bodies. Therefore, as he says in the same
 239 ThedistinctionbeingthatwhiletheviewisheldtobeinviolationofthedoctrineofChristianity
 and is thus described as an error, it is not deemed a thorough-going rejection of orthodox belief,
 which would constitute a heresy.
334
 The Hammer of Witches 120D–121B
 121A
 121B
 passage, since the Saints say in common that angels did appear in a
 bodily vision, and such an apparition does occur in assumed bodies,
 the text of Holy Scripture is in fact more in agreement about such
 bodily apparitions than about apparitions involving the imagination or
 conjuring. Accordingly, on the basis of these facts, we can for the present
 say about any visions like those involving the companions of Diomedes
 that although through the work of demons his companions could have
 been seen in the viewers’ imaginary vision in the manner mentioned,
 it is nonetheless preferable to presume that they were seen as flying
 birds because of demons in assumed bodies made out of the element
 of air, or that natural birds were moved by the demons to represent
 them.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 8:
 Aq., Sent. 2.8.1.2
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.7, 8]
 how demons exist inside bodies and heads
 without causing harm when they work changes
 involving conjuring
 Chapter Nine
 IN connection with the method of causing a transformation
 through conjuring, further questions may be asked: whether the demons
 exist at that time inside bodies and heads, whether such humans are to
 be considered as possessed by demons, how it can happen that they can
 bring pictures from one internal faculty to another without harm to the
 internal faculties and forces, and whether or not such a work should be
 considered a miraculous deed.240
 As for the first, a distinction should be made about the illusion caused
 by conjuring, because, as has been said, such an illusion is sometimes
 played on the external senses and sometimes on the internal ones, reach
ing the external one. The former sort can happen without the demons
 entering the external faculties, since they do not take possession of these
 faculties but only play an illusion on them on the outside, for instance,
 240 In the actual discussion, the order of topics two and three is reversed. The existence of demons
 in the head is discussed in 121B–D, their movement of pictures in 122A–B, the possessed in
 122B–C, and the status of their works as miracles in 122C–123C.
Part II 121B–D
 335
 when a demon conceals some body by placing some other body in the
 way or in some other way, or assumes the body himself and shows him
self to the vision. The latter sort, on the other hand, cannot happen
 unless he takes possession of the head and faculties themselves as the
 source.241
 This is shown by authority and reasons, and it is no objection that
 two created spirits cannot be in one and the same place and that the
 soul is in every part of the body. On this point there is the authority of
 John of Damascus: “An angel is in the place where he works,” and the 121C
 reasoning of St. Thomas: “On the basis of their natural virtue, which is
 certainly superior to any bodily virtue, all angels, whether good or evil,
 have the power to transform bodies” (Commentary on Pronouncements,
 Bk. 2, Dist. 7,Art.5 [actually, 2.8.1.5.Co.]). This is clearly the case not
 only because of the superiority and nobility of their nature but also
 because the entire structure of the world and bodily creation is run by
 angels (Gregory: “An arrangement for this visible world can be made
 by an invisible creation” (Dialogues,Bk.4 [4.6)), and hence all bodily
 objects are governed by angels, in the same way that not only the Holy
 Doctors but all philosophers242 state that this is the case with the movers
 of the spheres. This is also clearly the case from the fact that all human
 bodies are moved by souls, just as the other bodies are moved by the
 heavenly bodies and by their movers. If someone wishes to, let him look
 at St. Thomas in Part One, Quest. 110,Art.1. From this it is concluded
 that because demons are in the place where they are working, when they
 throw into confusion the internal faculties and those of fantasy, they are
 in fact there.
 Also, although it is possible only for Him Who created the soul to 121D
 glide into it, nonetheless demons too can glide into our bodies with
 God’s permission, and because they can then make impressions on the
 internalfacultiesattachedtothebodilyorgans,throughsuchimpressions
 the workings of the organs can, like the organs themselves, be changed
 in the manner mentioned before, in that the demons can bring forth
 pictures stored in one faculty attached to an organ. For instance, from
 the memory, which is in the back part of the head, a demon brings forth
 a picture of a horse by moving in location an image of the fantasy up
 to the middle part of the head, where the compartment for the force
 of imagination is, and then in sequence up to the common sense of
 241 I.e., the source of the images.
 242 I.e., students of natural philosophy (see n. 39).
336
 The Hammer of Witches 121D–122B
 122A
 122B
 perception, whose seat is in the front part of the head.243 They can so
 suddenlychangeeverythingandthrowitintoconfusion,thatsuchforms
 are necessarily considered in the estimation to be the same as if they were
 being shown to the external vision. There is an obvious illustration in
 the natural defect in frenetics and other maniacs.
 If it is asked in what way he can achieve this without causing pain
 in the head, the response is easy. First, he does not split or change
 the organs in terms of their object,244 but merely moves the pictures.
 Second,becausethedemon,wholacksanybodilyquality,doesnotmake
 an alteration by introducing some active quality from which suffering
 necessarily follows, he can perform such works without pain. Third,
 as has been said, he merely makes transmutations through a shift in
 location from one organ to another and not through other motions that
 sometimes result in harmful alterations. Therefore, as to the question
 that causes the difficulty (since two spirits cannot– by definition– be in
 the same place and since the soul is in fact in the head, how can demons
 be there too?), it should be said that the center of the heart is assigned
 as the seat of the soul, and that there it shares life by pouring it into all
 the limbs. An illustration can be given in the way that the spider in the
 middle of its web senses a touch in any direction. There is, however, the
 statement of Augustine in his bookTheSpiritandSoulthatinitsentirety
 the soul is in the entire body and in every part of the body. Therefore,
 given that the soul is in the head, the demon can still work there too,
 because his working is different from the working of the soul. For the
 working of the soul is in the body, so that it can give it form and pour in
 life, and for this reason it is there just like a form in the material but not
 like a form in a place.245 The demon, on the other hand, is there as if
 in a given part of the body and in a given place, changing and working
 on the pictures derived from the senses of perception. Hence, because
 there is no confusion of their respective workings, each can be in the
 same part of the body at the same time.
 As for the question whether such people should be considered as
 possessed or “seized”246 (that is, seized by demons), this needs a specific
 explanation as to whether it is possible for someone to be possessed by
 a demon through the work of sorcerers, that is, whether the demon can
 243 In the scholastic understanding of the functioning of the mind, the various “faculties” were
 thought to reside in specific locations of the brain called cells.
 244 I.e., the real thing upon which their functioning is supposed to operate.
 245 For this sense of “form,” see n. 118.
 246 This attempts to render into English the Latin arrepticius, which signifies someone who has
 received the power of prophesy as the result of having been “seized” by divine power; see 48D.
Part II 122B–D
 337
 really take control of him in body, the specific method will be treated
 in the following chapter, since this topic too has a specific difficulty
 (whether this can happen through the works of sorcerers).
 Asforjustthequestionofwhethersuchworksofsorcerersanddemons
 should be evaluated after the fashion of miraculous works, so that they
 will be considered miraculous works, it should be said that they can,
 to the extent that they happen in a manner surpassing the order of the
 created nature that is known to us through the virtue of a creation that
 is unknown to us. Properly speaking, however, they are not miracles in
 the way that things that happen in a manner surpassing the order of the
 entirety of created nature are miracles (like the miracles of God and of
 the Saints). (See the discussion in Part One of the work under Question
 Five and the refutation of the third error.)247
 122C
 In addition to this, the following discussion must be added for the
 sake of those people who would call works of this kind into question as
 if they ought be considered not miraculous works but merely works of
 the Devil, both because miracles are given for the strengthening of the
 Faith and thus should not be conceded to the opponent of the Faith,
 and also because the signs of the Antichrist are called lying signs by
 the Apostle [2 Thess. 2:9]. As for the first, it should be said that the
 ability to perform miracles is a gift of Grace freely given, and therefore
 they can happen through evil spirits (in the case of the things to which
 the demons’ virtue extends), just as they can through evil humans. 122D
 Hence, miracles performed by good men can be distinguished from
 those that are performed by evil ones in at least three ways. The first
 distinction is the effectiveness of the virtue that is at work, since signs
 performed by good men are performed through God’s power. This is
 also the case with those things to which the virtue of active nature in
 no wayextends, like reviving the dead and the like. The demons cannot
 perform these deeds in terms of reality but only as tricks of conjuring
 (for instance, Simon the Magician248 and the dead man whose head
 he moved) and such deeds cannot last long. The second distinction is
 the usefulness of the signs, since signs performed by good men concern
 useful matters (for instance, curing illnesses and the like), while signs
 performed by sorceresses concern harmful or vain matters (for instance,
 their desire to fly in the air or make human limbs numb and the like).
 St. Peter makes this distinction in the Itinerary of Clement.249 The third
 247 38A.
 248 See Pt. 1 n. 415.
 249 The citation comes from Aquinas, Sent. 2.7.3.1.Co. (ultimate reference unknown).
123A
 338
 The Hammer of Witches 123A–C
 difference concerns the purpose, since the signs of good people are
 ordained for the edification of the Faith and of good character, but the
 signs of evil people are intended to cause manifest harm to the Faith and
 to respectability. They also differ in terms of the manner of working,
 since the good work miracles by invoking the Name of God piously and
 reverently, but sorcerers and evil people do so with certain ravings and
 invocations of demons.
 123B
 123C
 It is no obstacle that the Apostle calls the works of the Devil and
 the Antichrist lying signs, since at that time250 the wonders that will
 be performed by him with God’s permission are both true and false
 in different senses. They are true in connection with the things that are
 donebythevirtueofthedemontowhichhispowercanextend,butfalse
 when he will do things to which his power cannot extend, like raising
 the dead and giving sight to the blind. In the first instance, when he
 attempts to do this, he will either enter the body of the dead man or he
 will remove it and in place of it show himself in an assumed body made
 out of air. Similarly, in the second instance he takes away vision through
 the art of conjuring or inflicts other illnesses and then he will suddenly
 heal them by stopping the harm and not by righting internal qualities,
 as is described in the story of St. Bartholomew.251 All the wondrous
 works of the Antichrist and of sorceresses can also be called lying signs
 in that now they are performed only for the purpose of deceiving but at
 that time the Antichrist will work them.252 So Thomas (Dist. 7, [Sent.
 2.7.3.3.Ag1] “On the virtue of demons in their working”).
 At this point, the distinction in miracles that is set down in the Com
pendium of Theology to differentiate between a wonder and a miracle
 could be cited. A miracle properly has four requirements. First, it is
 from God. Second, it is contrary to the existence of nature, whose order
 it violates. Third, it is obvious. Fourth, it contributes to the strengthen
ing of the Faith. Therefore, since at least the first and last requirements
 are missing in the works of sorceresses, they can be called wondrous
 works but not miracles.
 There is also the following reasoning. They can in some way be called
 miracles, since some surpass nature, some violate nature, and others
 contradict nature. Surpassing nature are those for which there is nothing
 similar in nature or in its ability, like a virgin giving birth. In violation of
 250 I.e., during the End Days, when the Antichrist will take power.
 251 As cited in Aquinas, Summa 3.54.1.Ra2, Bartholomew was given the ability to be seen or not as
 he pleased.
 252 Reference to 2 Thess. 2:9–10 (see 62B).
Part II 123C–124A
 339
 nature are those that are performed through a usage contrary to nature
 but are described as being in conformity with nature, like the giving of
 sight to a blind man. In contradiction to nature are those that are done
 in a manner similar to the natural order but not from a natural origin.
 This was the case with the rods being turned into snakes [Exodus 7:11],
 since nature could have done this through a long process of rotting on
 account of the seminal causes.253 In this way, the works of magicians will
 be called wonders.
 It is a good idea to relate an event and dwell on its explanation for
 a little while. There is a town in the diocese of Strasburg, whose name
 considerations of charity and respectability demand to be hidden, and
 one day, when a laborer was cutting wood there to burn (at home), all
 of a sudden a certain cat of large size strove to harass him by throwing
 itself against him insistently. When he cast the cat aside, another one
 of greater size all of a sudden appeared, accosting him more vigorously 123D
 along with the first one. When he again tried to push them away, there
 now were three of them accosting him together, sometimes jumping
 up at his face, sometimes snapping at his forearms! He was terrified at
 this, and being overcome, as he related, with greater worry than at any
 other time, he protected himself with the Sign of the Cross. Abandoning
 his work, he was barely able to drive the hostile cats off, striking them
 with the cut wood, first one on the head, then another on legs or back,
 as they leaped up, one moment at his face, the next at his throat. He
 kept on with his work for an hour afterwards, when all of a sudden
 two attendants of the chief magistrates of the town arrested him as an
 evil-doer and brought him before the bailiff (judge). Seeing him from
 afar, this judge was unwilling to give him even a hearing and ordered
 him to be cast into the dungeon of a certain tower (prison),254 where
 those awaiting execution were kept. With lamentations the laborer cried
 out plaintively to the prison guards for three days, asking why such
 things were happening to him when he knew himself to be guilty of no
 crime. The more the guards urged that he be given a hearing, the more 124A
 bitterly the judge raged with anger, uttering insulting words. He asked
 rhetorically how such an evil-doer could still not admit his guilt and how
 253 I.e., snakes are “imperfect” animals (see Pt. i n. 420) that can generate spontaneously and
 that leave their “seeds” lying around in ponds and the like, so that the demons can use them
 to “create” life. The phrase “seminal causes” (seminales rationales) is a term from Augustine’s
 thought that refers to the potential virtues that exist in matter before it is created into an object
 through the imposition of a “form,” at which point “natural effects” ensue; see Aq., Sent.,
 2.18.1.1.
 254 Towers in German towns (called T¨ urme) often served as prisons.
340
 The Hammer of Witches 124A–C
 124B
 124C
 he could proclaim himself innocent when the evidence of the deed255
 demonstrated his horrible crimes. Though the guards made no progress,
 the judge was induced by the urging of the other chief magistrates to
 grant him a hearing. When the accused was therefore brought out of the
 prison and placed before the judge, the judge refused to look at him,
 and the poor man fell before the knees of the bystanders and pleaded
 that the reason for his misfortune should be revealed to him. At this
 the judge burst out with the following words: “You foulest criminal on
 earth! How can you not confess your crimes? Look, on such-and-such a
 day at such-and-such a time you wounded three prominent matrons of
 this city, so that they lie in their beds and cannot get up or move.” After
 recovering his strength and pondering what had happened, the poor
 mansaid, “Well, in all the days of my life I have never struck or beaten a
 woman, and I will prove through the lawful production of witnesses256
 that on such-and-such a day and hour I was engaged in cutting wood.
 In fact, your own servants found me engaged in this task the following
 hour.” Then the judge spoke again in fury: “Look how he strives to
 mitigate his crimes! The women bewail their bruises, showing them
 and publicly attesting that he struck them.” Then, after giving further
 thought to what had happened, the poor man said, “I recall that at that
 hour I struck creatures, but they weren’t women.” In astonishment, the
 bystanders wished him to reveal what sort of creatures he had struck.
 He then related what had happened, to the astonishment of everyone,
 as was mentioned above. Realizing that this had been the work of the
 demon, they257 ordered that the poor man should be released and that
 he should depart unharmed, adding that he was to reveal the affair to
 no one.258 But the event could not be kept secret by the zealots for the
 Faith who were present.259
 Regarding this method, a few statements follow in terms of whether
 demonsappearedineffigiesassumedinthismannerwithoutthepresence
 of sorceresses or the bodily presenceofthesorceresses waschangedbythe
 artifice of conjuring into those forms ofwildbeasts. In response it should
 be concluded that although either could happen through the virtue of
 255 “Evidence of the deed” is a technical legal expression for an act that renders the guilt of the
 accused obvious, and constitutes one of the three grounds for conviction (along with the “lawful
 production of witnesses” and a confession).
 256 Another technical legal term (see preceding note). The use of the language by a mere laborer
 raises doubts as to the veracity of the direct quotations in this passage.
 257 Who exactly “they” are is not clear.
 258 Seemingly, the three women got off scot-free as part of the cover-up.
 259 These devout believers in the existence of sorcery must be the source of this story.
Part II 124C–D
 341
 demons, the greater presumption is that the latter happened. For no one
 doubts that when the demons attacked the laborer in effigies of cats, a
 movement in location through the air could have suddenly inflicted on
 the women as they sat at home the blows and beatings inflicted by the
 laborer on the cats (because of the mutual agreement longbefore entered
 into).260 In this way, when they want to affect someone through sorcery,
 they know how to inflict on some painted or cast image the harm or
 pricking that they want to inflict, harming not the image but the person
 whomitistorepresent according to the prickings made on the image.261
 Various illustrations about the method could be cited.
 It is not a valid point if someone objects that the women harmed in
 this way were perhaps innocent,262 since it has in fact been demon- 124D
 strated through the illustrations discussed above that forms of injury
 can happen to the innocent, when someone is harmed unawares by a
 sorceress through a image crafted by art. This point is not valid, because
 it is one thing to be harmed by a demonthrough asorceress and another
 to beharmedbyademonalonewithoutasorceress.Forthedemontakes
 the blows by himself in the effigy of an animal in an instance where he
 inflicts the blows on someone bound to him by an agreement and with
 that person’s consent has presented himself in such a form and manner
 for the purpose of such an apparition. Hence, he can in this way harm
 only the guilty who are bound to him by an agreement, and he cannot
 harm the innocent in this way at all.263 When, on the other hand, the
 demons seek to cause harm through sorceresses, it is often the case that
 with God’s permission they also afflict the innocent as vengeance for
 such a crime. It is true that demons sometimes do harm the innocent
 260 Thisstatement explains why the second alternative is possible, even though the first is preferred.
 261 The situation is compared to “sympathetic magic,” in which harm inflicted on an image is
 transferred, by a demon according to the present interpretation, to the person represented by
 the image (see the discussion in 132A–B and the anecdote in 134B–135A). The analogy is not
 very satisfactory in that normally the harm is transferred to the intended victim, while in this
 case the harm is transferred to the perpetrator (the sorceresses) in order to cause trouble for the
 victim (the laborers) and the harm that is transferred is caused (unintentionally) by the victim.
 262 Cf. the later discussion of the impossibility of demons giving innocent women a false reputation
 for sorcery (132B–133B).
 263 This “argument” is merely a self-serving assertion designed to get around an obvious objection
 to the “construct” of sorcery. It is necessary to deny out of hand the possibility that the Devil,
 whose powers are ex hypothesi so great and whose intent is presumed to be evil, has framed
 accused sorceresses by fabricating the supposed evidence of their guilt. The presumption here
 is that the demon can act in this way only on account of some putative agreement with the
 sorceresses, but (apart from the claim made elsewhere that the demon takes the initiative and
 craftily ensnares women against their will; see 96D, 99A–B) there is no theoretical basis for this
 restriction on the demon’s abilities (and the restriction is not even universal; see the anecdote
 in 134A).
342
 The Hammer of Witches 124D–125B
 125A
 125B
 by themselves with God’s permission, and long ago they harmed the
 Most Saintly Job. They were not present in that instance, however, nor
 did the Devil use apparitions caused by conjuring as was the case in
 this deed, when he used the fantastical image of a cat. (This animal
 is an appropriate symbol for breakers of the Faith, just as the dog is
 one for preachers in the Scriptures.264 For this reason, these animals
 always lie in ambush for each other, and in the form of a barking dog
 the Order of Preachers was shown the path against heresies in the per
son of its founder.)265 It is presumed that the three sorceresses attacked
 the laborer in the second method, because the first method would not
 have pleased them so much and the second is more suitable to their
 curiosity.266
 Theprocedure in this affair reflects the following three features. First,
 thesorceresseswereimportunedaboutthisbythedemons’insistenceand
 not the other way around. For we have very often discovered from their
 confessions that they had to commit more evil deeds at the insistence of
 the demons, who constantly demanded this of them. It is thus probable
 that by themselves they would not have conceived the notion of harass
ing the poor man. (The reason why the demons importunately demand
 this is without a doubt that they know full well that when manifest
 crimes remain unpunished, God is more offended, the Catholic Faith
 is disgraced, and the number of sorceresses is further increased.) The
 second feature is that having the women’s consent, the demons trans
ferred their bodies in location with the ease by which spiritual virtue is
 superior to bodily. The third is that when they had to attack the laborer
 after being converted into the appearances of wild animals through an
 apparition caused by conjuring in the manner treated above, they were
 not defended against the blows. For the demons could have defended
 themjustaseasilyastheytransportedthem.Instead,thedemonsallowed
 themtobebeatenandtorevealthebeater, knowing that effeminate men
 whohavenozeal for the Faith leave such crimes unpunished for the rea
sons already mentioned. Relevant here is a story told about a certain
 saintly man. When he once found the Devil giving a sermon in the
 guise of a priest in a church and recognized through the Spirit that
 this was the Devil, the holy man paid careful attention to his words,
 noting whether he instructed the congregation properly or poorly. His
 264 The reference to Scripture presumably refers to interpretations of the Bible that take references
 to dogs as foreshadowing the later role of the Dominicans as aggressive pursuers of heresy.
 265 For St. Dominic as a baying dog, see 40C.
 266 I.e., the two ways mentioned in the previous paragraph.
Part II 125B–D
 343
 judgment was that the Devil was beyond reproach, indeed a chastiser
 of crimes. Summoning the Devil at the end of the sermon, the saintly 125C
 man asked the reason for this. The Devil replied, “Well, I tell the truth,
 because I know that when they listen to the Word but do not act on it,
 God is more offended and my profit increased.”
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 8:
 Aq., On Evil 16.11
 Sent. 2.7.3.1; 2.8.1.5
 Summa 1.110.4]
 the method by which demons sometimes inhabit
 humans in substance through the workings of
 sorceresses
 Chapter Ten
 SINCE there was a treatment in the preceding chapter of how
 demons can enter and occupy the heads of humans or other parts of the
 body, andcanmoveinternalpicturesfromplacetoplace,someonecould
 be uncertain as to whether they could, at the insistence of sorceresses,
 take control of humans entirely, and about the different methods of
 taking control without the insistence of sorceresses. Three things are
 necessary to explain these doubts. An explanation must first be given of
 the various methods of possession, and, second, of the fact that, at the
 insistence of sorceresses, demons at times take possession by all those
 methodswithGod’spermission.Third,acts anddeedsconcerningthese 125D
 matters should be cited.
 As for the first. Here, the general method by which the Devil inhabits
 a human with any given mortal sin is left out of account. This method
 is discussed by St. Thomas in Quodlibet 3,Q.3, on the doubtful point,
 “Whether the Devil always inhabits a human in substance whenever he
 sins mortally.” The cause of his doubt would be that the Holy Spirit
 always inhabits a human with Grace according to 1 Corinthians 3[:16]
 (“You are the temple of God and the Spirit of God dwells in you”), and
 guilt is opposedtoGraceandoppositesmustoccurinrelationtothesame
 thing. Here he explains that “to inhabit a human” can be understood in
 two ways, in terms either of the soul or of the body. An analogy to the
 f
 irst way is not valid, since it is not possible for the Devil to inhabit the
344
 The Hammer of Witches 125D–126C
 126A
 126B
 126C
 soul because God alone glides into the mind, and also because the Devil
 is notthecauseofguiltinthesamewaythattheHolySpiritisthecauseof
 the Grace that the Holy Spirit produces in the soul by His own working.
 As for the body, we can say that the Devil can inhabit a human in two
 ways, | just as humans can also be found in two ways, being in a state of
 either sin or Grace. As for the first way, it should be said that any mortal
 sin results in a human being sentenced to serve the Devil, inasmuch
 as the Devil sometimes suggests a sin externally, in terms of either the
 senses of perception or the imagination, and therefore the Devil is said to
 inhabit the desiring of a human, since the latter is moved at any urging
 of temptation, like a ship at sea without a helmsman. The devil can also
 inhabit a human in substance, as is clear in the case of those “seized.”267
 Because this has more to do with penalty than with guilt, as will be
 explained, and because bodily penalties do not always follow guilt, but
 are sometimes inflicted on both sinners and non-sinners, demons can,
 in accordance with the loftiness of God’s inscrutable judgments, inhabit
 in substance both those in and those out of the state of Grace. Although
 this method of possession does not pertain to our investigation, it is
 nonetheless set down to ensure that no one will think it impossible that |
 with God’s permission, humans sometimes are in fact inhabited by
 demons in substance at the insistence of sorceresses.
 We may therefore say that demons can harm and possess humans at
 the insistence of sorceresses in the same five ways that they can do so by
 themselves without sorceresses, because in that case greater power to act
 savagely against humans through sorceresses is permitted to the demon,
 since God is more offended. With the exception of the fact that they
 sometimes harass in connection with the external goods of fortune, the
 methods are, in a summary listing, the following. Sometimes they harm
 people only in their own bodies; sometimes they so do in their bodies
 and their internal faculties at the same time; sometimes they merely
 tempt inside and outside; and some people they deprive of the use of
 reason temporarily, while others they make like unreasoning wild beasts.
 Let us discuss these points individually, but first we should give an
 introductory explanation of the reasons why God permits humans to
 be possessed, because the material dictates such an order. Sometimes
 a person is possessed for his greater | merit, sometimes for someone
 else’s trivial misdeed, sometimes for his own venial sin, sometimes for
 someone else’s serious sin, and sometimes for his own great crime. No
 267 See 48D.
Part II 126C–127A
 345
 onedoubtsthatforallthese reasons Goddoespermitsimilarthingstobe
 done by demons at the insistence of sorceresses, and it would be useful
 to prove the individual points on the basis of Scriptural passages, and
 not merely of recent events, since new things are always corroborated by
 old ones.
 The first is made clear in the Dialogue [1.20] of Severus, the dearest
 disciple of St. Martin. There it is said that a certain Father of a most holy
 way of life was so endowed with the grace of driving out demons that
 theywereputtoflightnotonlybythisFather’sownwordsbutevenbyhis
 letters and shirt of goat hair. After the Father became very famous in the
 world, he perceived that he was being tempted by vainglory. Although
 he stood up to this vice like a man, nonetheless, in order that he should
 be further humbled, he prayed to God with all his heart that he should
 be possessed by a demon, which in fact happened. He was immediately
 possessed and had to be tied up. All the common remedies for those
 possessed by demons had to be used on him, and at the end of five 126D
 months, he was instantly freed from the vainglory and the demon. For
 the momentit is not asserted that this reason could cause someone to be
 possessed by a demon through someone else’s sorcery, since one cannot
 read that this happened in the past, although, as has been said before,
 the judgments of God are inscrutable.
 Regarding the second point (someone being possessed as a result of
 someone else’s misdeed), St. Gregory [Dialogues 1.10.6ff.] sets down an
 illustration concerning St. Eleutherius the Abbot, a very simple man.
 Whenhewasspending the night near a monastery of nuns and without
 his knowledge they ordered a small boy who was being harassed every
 night by a demon to be placed by his cell, the boy was freed the same
 night through the presence of the Father. When the holy man learned
 of what had been done, the boy was placed in his monastery. A few
 days later, feeling somewhat immoderate delight at having freed the boy,
 he said to his fellow brothers, “The Devil had been amusing himself
 with the boy and those sisters, but when the boy came to the servants of
 God,theDevildidnothavetheeffrontery to approach him.”Suddenly, 127A
 the Devil began to harass the boy, but with difficulty he was freed (the
 same day) through the tears and fasting of the holy man and his fellow
 brothers.
 Indeed, given that someone can be possessed as the result of someone
 else’s trivial misdeed, it is no wonder if their own venial or someone
 else’s serious sin or their own crime causes certain people to be possessed
 by demons at the insistence of sorceresses. A clear instance of one’s
346
 The Hammer of Witches 127A–C
 127B
 127C
 own venial sin is given by Cassian (First Conference, about Abbot Serenus
 [7.27]) when he says of Moses: “Although Moses was a unique and
 incomparable man in the monastery, he uttered a rather harsh statement
 when he was thwarted in a certain opinion during an argument with
 Abbot Macharius. As a rebuke for this statement, he was immediately
 surrendered to a fearsome demon. Possessed by this demon, he placed
 humanexcrement in his mouth. It is clear from his miraculous cure that
 the Lord inflicted this scourging for the sake of cleansing, so that the
 stain of even a moment’s misdeed should not remain on him. For as
 soon as Abbot Macharius engaged in humble prayer, the wicked spirit
 was quickly put to flight and left him.”
 Similar to this is what Gregory reports (Dialogues,Bk.1 [1.4.7]) about
 the nun who ate lettuce without first protecting herself with the Sign of
 the Cross and was freed by the Blessed Father Equitius.268
 Regarding the fourth point (someone being possessed for someone
 else’s serious sin), the Blessed Gregory tells a story (same place [1.10.6])
 about St. Fortunatus the Bishop. When he had warded off the Devil
 from a man he was assaulting, at the end of the day the same demon
 began to shout through the streets of the city in the guise of a stranger,
 “What a holy man Bishop Fortunatus is! Look, he threw me, a stranger,
 from his hospitality, and I cannot find anywhere to rest.” At this point,
 a certain man sitting with his wife and son invited him to his own
 hospitality. Asking the reason for the stranger’s having been thrown out,
 the man rejoiced at the disparagement of the holy man that he falsely
 heard from the stranger. Then, however, the Devil attacked the boy and
 threw him on the burning coals, casting out his soul. In this way, the
 wretched father understood for first time who it was that he hadreceived
 in hospitality.
 Weread about the fifth reason (one’s own great crime) both in Holy
 Scripture and in the accounts of the Saints’ Passions. This is how Saul
 was possessed when he disobeyed God (1 Sam. 15 [actually, 16:14]).269
 As we said,270 all these points have been discussed to ensure that it
 will not seem impossible to anyone if people are possessed because of the
 crimes of sorceresses, just as some are possessed at their insistence. With
 268 In the longer version of this story in Nider, the nun forgot to cross herself because of her
 greed for a nice lettuce that she saw, and as a result of this lack of piety she was possessed by a
 demon.
 269 For his disobedience in that he did not annihilate the Amelekites and their possessions as God
 had ordered, God disowned Saul and an evil spirit began to torment him; see 75C.
 270 125C.
Part II 127C–128A
 347
 reference to this, in order that we may understand the various methods
 of possession, let us cite an event concerning the second method.
 In the time of Pope Pius II,271 the following event happened to one272
 of the twoinquisitors writing this treatise, before the Office of the Inqui
sition was enjoined upon him. A certain Bohemian from the town of
 Tachov273 broughthisonlyson,whowasalsoasecular274 priest,toRome
 to be freed, because he was under assault. By chance, when I (one of the
 inquisitors) had entered an inn for refreshment, it happened that this
 priest and his father were sitting beside me as table companions. While
 we ate and conversed with each other, as is the custom of travelers, the 127D
 father sighed several times and prayed to Almighty God that he would
 complete his journey with success. Sympathizing with him from the
 bottom of my heart, I began to ask what the reason was for his journey
 and sadness. Then, in the hearing of his son, who was beside me at the
 table, he answered, “Alas! I have a son under assault by a demon, and at
 great labor and expense I have brought him this far for him to be freed.”
 When I asked where the son was, he indicated that he was beside me. I
 was somewhat horrified, and observing carefully that he took his food
 with such modesty and responded piously to every question, I began to
 have doubts in my mind and interjected that he was not under assault,
 and instead something had happened to him because of an illness. The
 son then told the story himself and indicated in what way and for how
 long he had been under assault. “A certain woman,” he said, “who was
 a sorceress gave me this illness. When I was quarreling with her because
 of some displeasure with the parish administration and I upbraided her 128A
 rather harshly because she was of an obstinate disposition, she said that
 after a few days I would have to pay attention to the things that would
 happen to me. The demon living in me also tells the same story, that a
 device for sorcery was placed under a certain tree by the sorceress and
 if it is not removed it will not be possible for me to be freed, but he is
 unwilling to point out the tree.” I would not have placed even the least
 faith in his words had not the proof of experience immediately taught
 me. For when I asked him about the interruption that allowed him to
 271 Pope 1458–1464.
 272 Generally assumed to be Institoris.
 273 This town, founded in the thirteenth century by Ottokar II of Bohemia, lies in the present-day
 Czech Republic close to the German border. Why the town is referred to by the Slavic name
 Dachovo rather than the Germanic form Tachau is unclear. Institoris was active in Moravia
 in the late 1460s and early 1470s, but seems not to have spoken Czech. Perhaps his traveling
 companions were German-speaking Czechs who used the native form of the town’s name.
 274 I.e., not a monk or friar.
348
 The Hammer of Witches 128A–C
 128B
 128C
 be in such control of his reason contrary to the usual practice of those
 under assault, he answered, “I am deprived of the use of reason only
 when I wish either to devote myself to Divine Service or to visit holy
 places. In particular, the demon said in the words he uttered through
 me that since up until then I had given him greater displeasure in my
 sermons to the congregation, he would not allow me to preach at all, as
 is now the case.” According to the father’s account, he was a preacher
 f
 illed with Grace and beloved of everyone.
 Wishing to become certain about the details, I decided to take him
 for half a monthandmore tovariousshrinesoftheSaints, especially the
 Church of St. Praxidis the Virgin, in which there is part of the marble
 statue to which Our Savior was bound during His scourging,275 and
 the place in which Peter the Apostle was crucified.276 In these places he
 would pouroutawful wailings while being exorcized, claiming now that
 he was willing to leave, a little later that he was by no means willing. As
 has already been said, in all forms of his behavior the priest remained
 composed and without any disgrace except when the exorcisms began
 and when the stole was removed from his neck at the end. Afterwards,
 he would again exhibit not even the least unreasonable or disreputable
 gesture. The only exception was when he was passing through a church
 and would bend his knees to greet the Glorious Virgin. At that point,
 the Devil would stick the priest’s tongue far out of his mouth, and when
 asked whether he could not restrain himself from doing that, the priest
 answered, “I do not have the strength to do so at all. When he pleases,
 he uses all my appendages and organs– my neck, tongue and lungs
for speaking or wailing so that while I do hear the words that he speaks
 in this way through me and from my organs, I am completely unable to
 resist, and the more devoutly I try to engage in prayer, the more keenly
 he attacks me, sticking out my tongue.”
 275 St. Praxidis is a martyr made up in late antiquity as the daughter of Pudens, supposedly a
 pupil of St. Paul in Rome. In 1223 John Cardinal Colonna had a column transported from
 Jerusalem to her church in Rome, and this Column of the Flagellation can still be seen there in
 the Oratory of St. Zeno. In about 1450 an English monk named John Capgrave reported that
 within a chapel there was an altar containing the remains of St. Valentine, and “under the altar
 is a piece of that pillar to [i.e., at] which Christ was scourged.”
 276 There is some doubt as to the supposed site of this event. The modern story has it that this took
 place on the site of the church of St. Peter in Montmorio on the Janiculum Hill. This story can
 be attested in German authors of the fifteenth century. A variant had it that the crucifixion took
 place at a site adjacent to St. Peter’s Basilica in the Vatican, as is attested by John Capgrave. Since
 this basilica is mentioned soon hereafter as the site of the priest’s liberation from his demon and
 there is no sense that this is the same as the site of the present attempt, presumably St. Peter’s
 in Montmorio is meant.
Part II 128C–D
 349
 In the Church of St. Peter, there is an elaborately carved column from
 the Temple of Solomon and by its virtue many people under assault by
 demons are freed, since Christ Himself supported Himself on it when
 preaching in the Temple,277 but this man could not be freed because of
 the hidden judgment of God, Whoarrangedadifferent method for him
 to befreed. Hewaskeptlockedinthechurchbythecolumnforanentire
 day and night, and the next day a great crowd gathered and thronged
 around as various exorcisms were read over him. When the priest278 was
 asked on what part of the column Christ had leaned, he showed the
 placed by biting the column with his teeth, wailing, “He stood here!
 He stood here!” At the end, however, he said, “I do not wish to leave.”
 Whenaskedwhy,heanswered,“BecauseoftheLombards.”Whenasked
 why he did not wish to come out because of the Lombards, the priest 128D
 answered in the Italian tongue (he did not know that form of speech),
 “They all do such-and-such,” naming the vice of debauchery already
 mentioned.279 Afterwards, however, the priest asked me, “Father, what
 277 This was one of some twelve (some medieval authorities also claim fourteen or sixteen) twisted
 columns that survived from antiquity and were preserved in St. Peter’s Basilica. (The Latin
 phrase translated as “elaborately carved” literally means “sawed around,” the exact significance
 of which is unclear.) Their real history is as follows. When Constantine, the first Christian
 Roman emperor, built a basilica over the site of Peter’s grave, he raised a large canopy over
 the burial, supporting this with six columns brought from Greece. In the late sixth century,
 Gregory the Great rebuilt the canopy and had the columns placed in front as a screen. Gregory
 III (731–741) added six more such columns (a present from the Exarch of Ravenna). Late legend
 had it that these columns (sometimes said to number fourteen or sixteen) came from the great
 temple to Yahweh in Jerusalem (the temple being falsely ascribed to Solomon, though it had
 been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar in the early sixth century bc) and that Jesus had sat under
 one of these columns while preaching. This particular column was well-known as a location for
 healing those possessed by demons, as is attested by an English visitor of the fifteenth century:
 “In the Church of St. Peter...there are a number of columns of white marble marvelously
 carved to represent, as it were, vines with leaves and clusters of grapes running up the pillars,
 beneath one of which, it is said, Jesus sat when He was preaching in Solomon’s temple at
 Jerusalem, whence it was brought to Rome and is now well protected with iron, and almost
 every day it works great virtues, especially on demented persons, and on those possessed by
 devils. A priest is often in attendance with a book, who, vested in surplice and stole, is ready to
 help infirm folk by prayer, etc.” The column has an inscription on it that would have been seen
 by the author (presumably Institoris): “This is the column, upon which Our Lord Jesus Christ
 supported himself and stood leaning, while he was preaching to the people and pouring forth
 prayers to God the Father in the Temple. Together with the other eleven that stand alongside
 here, it was placed here from Solomon’s Temple as a triumph for this Basilica. It expels demons,
 has freed people harassed by unclean spirits, and performs many miracles everyday. Adorned
 by the Reverend Lord Father, Lord Cardinal Orsini, ad 1438.”
 278 Apparently the priest attested as attending the column.
 279 Though it has not been mentioned for some time, it would seem that sodomy is what the
 inquisitor has in mind. This is rather odd, since Florence, the capital of Tuscany, was the Italian
 city that was commonly associated with homosexuality. This reputation extends back to at least
 the fourteenth century, and in 1432 the city instituted a special magistracy to deal with the
 situation. The main city of Lombardy was Milan, and unless the demon was privy to some
350
 The Hammer of Witches 128D–129B
 do these Italian words that he uttered from my mouth mean?” After I
 told him, he replied, “I did hear the words, but I could not understand
 them.”
 Astheoutcomeoftheaffair proved, this demon wasofthekindabout
 which the Savior said in the Gospel, “This kind of demon is cast out
 only inprayingandfasting” [Matt. 17:20]. Therefore, a certain venerable
 bishop, who had, it is said, been thrown out of his see by the Turks,280
 piously sympathized with the priest and every day devoted himself to
 fasts and prayers and exorcisms throughout the entire period of Lent on
 a diet of bread and water. In the end, he freed the priest through the
 Grace of God and sent him back home in joy.
 129A
 129B
 Although on this topic no one in this life could, without a miracle,
 satisfactorily describe by which and by how many different methods the
 demon possesses or harms humans, we can nonetheless say that he does
 so in five ways, leaving aside the fact that he sometimes causes harm
 only in connection with the external affairs of fortune. Some people are
 harassedonlyintheirownbodies,someinbodyandtheinternalfaculties
 at thesametime,someonlyintheinternalfaculties,somepeopleareonly
 temporarily deprived of the use of reason as a chastisement, and some
 are made like unreasoning wild beasts. The explanation is that the priest
 mentioned above was possessed in the fourth way. For he was harassed
 neither in the matters of fortune nor in his own body, as happened to
 the saintly Job. For Holy Scripture clearly relates about this that God
 authorized the demon by saying to Satan, “Behold, all the things that
 he has are in your hand. Just do not stretch forth your hand against
 him” [Job 1:12]. This authorization concerned his external property.
 But concerning his body God later says, “Behold, it is in your hand. But
 preserve his soul,” [Job 2:6] that is, “do not take away his life.” It can
 also be said that he281 was harassed by the third282 method, that is, in the
 internal faculties of the soul and in the body together, since he said to the
 Lord, as is stated in Job 7[:13–14], “If I say, ‘My bed will console me,’ and
 am comforted as I speak to myself in my bed, You will terrify me with
 dreams and You will make me bristle in horror with visions.” According
 to Nicholas of Lyra [Postilla literalis], “at the instigation of the demon” is
 source of information now unknown, it would seem that he (or the author) has confused the
 Lombards with the Tuscans.
 280 Presumably a Catholic bishop who had held a see in territory belonging to a western power
 but was driven out when the territory was conquered by the Turks (e.g., Genoa lost Lesbos to
 them in 1462, Venice lost the Negropont, that is, Euboea, in 1472).
 281 I.e., Job.
 282 Apparently, the second listed in 129A is actually meant.
Part II 129B–D
 351
 understood. According to Thomas [Commentary on Job on 7:14], “You
 will terrify me with dreams,” refers to the dreams that appear tosomeone
 sleeping, while “and with visions” refers to the visions that appear to
 someone awake when the use of the external senses is appropriated by
 someone else. For the images of the fantasy formed by daytime thoughts
 wind up terrifying sleepers. These images worked on Job as the result
 of an illness of the body, and therefore, since consolation was precluded
 in every direction, Job thought that there was no remedy by which
 to escape so many hardships except death, saying, “You will make me
 bristle in horror.” No one doubts that sorceresses too use these methods
 to harm humans through demons, since the following questions will
 explain how they use hailstorms to inflict injury in matters of fortune
 and on the bodies of animals and humans.
 The third283 method of causing harm is in the body and the internal
 faculties without the deprivation of the use of reason. This is made clear
 from the sorceresses’ workings. As was discussed above, they so inflame 129C
 the minds of humans with unlawful desirings that they must necessarily
 run over long stretches of the earth to their girlfriends, even at night
time, being greatly ensnared through the poison of carnal love.284
 What is said to have happened in the town of Marburg in Hesse to a
 certain personunderassaultwhowasalsoapriestcanalsobecited.When
 the demon was asked in exorcisms for how long he had been inhabiting
 the priest, he is said to have answered, “Seven years.” When the exorcist
 retorted, “Since you have harassed him for barely three months, where
 were you during the rest of the time?” he answered, “I hid myself in
 his body.” When the exorcist asked, “In what part of the body,” he
 answered, “In the head for the most part.” Asked once more where he
 had been when the priest was celebrating Divine Service and ingested
 the Sacrament, he said, “I hid under his tongue.” The exorcist asked,
 “Wretch, what rashness kept you from fleeing in the presence of your
 Creator?” and the demon said, “Can’t an evil man hide under a bridge
 while a holy man passes overhead?” With the additional working of 129D
 God’s Grace, the priest was freed, it being unclear whether the story he
 told was true or false, since his father is also a liar.
 The fourth285 method is ascribed with the following explanation to
 the possessed priest who was freed at Rome. Because the demon could
 283 Again, the second is meant.
 284 Similarlanguage(reminiscentofthatofthemuch-citedCanon“Episcopi”)isusedinananecdote
 in 115A; otherwise Pt. 1,Q.7 (46A–52B) is meant.
 285 As laid out in 129A.
352
 The Hammer of Witches 129D–130B
 slide into the body (and not into the soul, since this is possible for God
 alone), he does slide into the body, though not within the boundaries
 of the essence of the body. This, I say, explains how demons sometimes
 inhabit humans in substance.
 130A
 130B
 They take away the use of reason only temporarily. This is explained
 as follows. We can say that the body has two sorts of boundary, one
 of mass and one of essence, and hence when any angel, whether good
 or evil, works within the boundaries of the body, he works within the
 boundaries of the body’s mass.286 This is how he slides into the body
 whenheworksonthefaculties of the mass. This is also how good angels
 work visions of the imagination in good people. They are never said to
 slide into the essence of the body, however, either as a part or as a virtue,
 because they do not have these powers. They do not do so as a part
 because there is a different essence in each case, and they do not do so
 as a virtue that, so to speak, gives being, because it has its being through
 being created by God. Hence, God alone controls the internal working
 and preservation of the essence for so long as it pleases His piety to
 preserve it. Therefore, it is concluded that when they work all the other
 perfections or defects (perfections referring to good people and defects
 to evil ones), if they do so on the body or its parts, for instance the head,
 they slide into that body over the boundaries (those of the mass and the
 faculties of the mass).
 If they work onthesoul, once again each sort of angel does so outside,
 but in different ways. They are said to work on the soul by showing the
 images of fantasy (pictures) to the intellect, and not merely to the judg
mentofthecommonsenseandoftheexternalsenses. What results from
 these workings are temptations at the hands of evil angels, and indi
rectly evil desirings and thoughts through their working on the intellect.
 What results from good angels, on the other hand, is enlightenment of
 the images of the fantasy in order that the person should recognize what
 the angels reveal. Hence, there is also the distinction that good angels can
 in fact make a direct impression on the intellect through enlightenment
 of the images of the fantasy, while evil angels are said not to enlighten
 the images of the fantasy but to darken them. Also, they cannot make
 a direct impression, but only an indirect one, to the extent that it is
 286 Underlying this idea is the parallel between the soul and the “form” (see n. 118). Like a form, the
 soul is what gives the physical material of a body its “essence” or defining characteristic, which
 is its life. But while a form is something of an abstraction, the soul is thought to reside in some
 way inside the body, existing within the body’s essence but not its “mass” (physical material).
Part II 130B–D
 353
 necessary for someone to view the images of the fantasy when under
standing them with his intellect.
 These statements show that not even a good angel is said to slide into
 the soul, though he enlightens it, just as a higher angel is also not said to
 slide into the lower one, though he enlightens him. Instead, he merely
 works on it and with it from the outside in the manner mentioned.
 In this way the demon occupied the priest’s body in three respects.
 First, just as he could slide into his body (within the boundaries of the
 mass), he occupied his head by inhabiting it in substance. Second, just 130C
 as he could work on his soul from the outside by darkening his intellect
 so that he lost the use of reason, he could harass him in terms of the
 loss of reason without respite and without anyone being able to make
 an interruption, although it can also be said that by the gift of God
 the priest had the privilege of not being harassed by the demon without
 respite. Third,althoughhewasdeprivedofalltheappendagesandorgans
 used for speaking and forming words, he was always aware of the words,
 though not of their sense. This method of assault differs from the others
 in that it is commonly read that those under assault are afflicted by the
 demonswithoutrespite, as is clearly the case in the Gospel with both the
 madmanwhose father said to Jesus, “Lord, take pity on my son because
 he is a madman and suffers terribly” (Matt. 17[:15]), and the woman
 who had been hobbled by Satan for eighteen years and was bent over
 without being able to look up at all (Luke 13[:11]. There is no doubt 130D
 that with God’s permission the demons can also harass in these ways at
 the insistence of sorceresses.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 10:
 Aq., Sent. 2.8.1.5
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.11]
 the method by which they can inflict every kind
 of illness (in general terms about the more
 serious illnesses)
 Chapter Eleven
 IN addition, that there is no bodily illness that cannot be
 inflicted by sorceresses with God’s permission, including even leprosy
 or epilepsy, can be proven by the fact that the Doctors do not make an
 exception for any kind of illness. If the discussions above about both
354
 The Hammer of Witches 130D–131B
 131A
 131B
 the virtue of demons and the evil of sorceresses are carefully examined,
 this proposition is subject to no difficulty. In both his Praeceptorium
 [1.11.15–16] and his Ant Hill [5.3], Nider asks whether sorcerers can really
 harmhumanswiththeir acts of sorcery (this question lacks an exception
 for any illness, however incurable) and after giving the answer that they
 can, he then asks by which methods and with what things they can
 do so. As to the first, he gave the answer that was explained above
 in Question One287 of Part One of the treatise. This is also proven
 by Isidore, when he describes the workings of sorceresses: “They are
 called sorcerers [“evildoers”] because of the enormity of their crimes.
 For they buffet the elements,” that is, by the work of demons, “to stir
 up storms, throw the minds of humans into confusion,” that is, in the
 methods discussed above, “impede the use of reason either altogether
 or by seriously darkening it” (Etymologies,Bk.8, Ch. 9). He adds: “And
 without the drinking of any poison they kill souls merely through the
 violence of their enchantment,” that is, by taking away the soul. It is
 also proven by St. Thomas in the Commentary on Pronouncements on
 Bk. 2, Dists. 7 and 8 and on Bk. 4, Dist. 34, as well as by all theologians
 in common (same passages). They write that sorcerers can in every way
 cause varieties of injury in humans and their affairs when a demonworks
 with them, and in all these things (property, reputation, body, the use of
 reason, and life) the demon can only harm or deceive. He means that in
 those things in which the demon could cause harm by himself without
 a sorceress, he can also do so with a sorceress, and indeed in that case he
 does so with greater ease because the majesty of God is more offended,
 as was discussed above.288
 The situation with property is made clear in Job 1 and 2, as was
 explained above.289
 Thesituation with reputation is made clear in the story of St. Jerome.
 John of Andrea in the Book on Jerome relates that the Devil turned
 himself into the form of St. Silvanus, the Bishop of Nazareth, who was
 an enthusiastic admirer of Jerome. This demon first began to woo a
 noblewoman in bed at night and to entice her verbally to debauchery,
 then he physically importuned her to commit an evil act. When she
 shouted out, the demon hid under the bed of the woman in the guise
 of the holy bishop, and when he was found there after a search, with
 debauchedwordsheliedthathewasBishopSilvanus.Thenextmorning,
 287 7A–13D.
 288 126B.
 289 129A.
Part II 131B–D
 355
 after the Devil disappeared, the holy man suffered a very serious loss to
 his reputation. This disgrace was finally cleared up when the Devil made
 a confession at the tomb of St. Jerome in a possessed body.
 The situation with the body is made clear in the case of the Blessed
 Job, who was stricken with a very bad sore by the demon, which is 131C
 explained as leprosy.
 Sigebert290 andVincent(MirrorofHistory,Bk.25,Ch.37)alsorecount
 that in thetimeofEmperorLouisIIinaparishofMainzacertaindemon
 f
 irst threwstonesonthehousesandstruckthemasifwithahammer,and
 then in speaking publicly caused disquiet by revealing thefts and sowing
 disagreements. Next, he incited everyone against a single man, and he
 burned down every house where this man was received with hospitality,
 asserting that everyone was suffering because of the man’s sins. In the
 end, the man had only the fields left for his lodging, and for this reason
 when the priests were celebrating the litanies, the demon harmed many
 people by casting stones, even drawing blood. Sometimes he was quiet,
 sometimes raging, and over the course of three years he kept up these
 acts until all the buildings in the parish were destroyed by fire.
 The situation with harming the use of reason and harassing the inter
nal senses is made clear through the case of the possessed and “stricken,”
 as well as by Gospel stories.
 The situation with death and his depriving some people of their lives
 is demonstrated (Tobias 6[:14]) by the killing of the seven husbands of 131D
 the virgin Sarah, who were unworthy of marrying her because of their
 debaucheddesireandunbridledpassionforher.291 Hence,itisconcluded
 that while the demons can harm people by themselves, they can do so
 even more through sorceresses in connection with everything without
 any exceptions.
 When it is asked whether injuries of this kind are to be imputed to
 the demons or to the sorceresses, it is answered that since demons work
 through their own direct action in introducing illnesses, the illnesses
 should be imputed to them in terms of the origin. However, they seek
 to use the sorceresses to perform deeds of this kind for the dual purpose
 of despising and offending the Creator on the one hand and of damning
 the sorceresses’ souls on the other. For they know that God is angered
 more by this method, and He therefore gives them more power to act
 with savagery. In fact, countless acts of sorcery are committed that the
 Devil would not be permitted to inflict on humans, if he endeavored
 290 Earlier source cited by Vincent.
 291 See n. 23.
356
 The Hammer of Witches 131D–132B
 132A
 132B
 to harm humans by himself, but he is permitted by the just and hid
den judgment of God to use sorceresses to inflict them because of the
 sorceresses’ breach and rejection of the Catholic Faith. Therefore, such
 acts of sorcery should be secondarily imputed to the sorceresses in just
 judgment, however much the Devil is the original instigator. Therefore,
 as for the broom that the woman dips in the water to cause rain by
 splattering the water into the air,292 although it does not by itself cause
 the rain and the woman could not be censured for this, nonetheless,
 when she does such things as a sorceress as a result of an agreement
 entered into with a demon, she is rightly blamed, even though it is the
 demon who causes the rain, because with her bad faith and work she
 serves the Devil, handing herself over to his allegiance. This is also the
 case when a sorcerer makes a waxen image or the like to affect some
one through sorcery or when a picture appears in water or lead through
 someone’s sorcery. Whatever unpleasantness is inflicted on that image
 (for instance, a jabbing or any other form of injury) is felt to happen
 in the person represented by the image (the person affected with sor
cery), and thus, although the harm is really inflicted on the image by
 the sorceress or other person and the demon invisibly harms the person
 affected with sorcery in the same way, the injury is justly imputed to
 the sorceress, since without her God would never permit the Devil to
 inflict the injury and the Devil would not have undertaken to harm the
 person by himself.293
 Since mention has been made of reputation, in which demons can
 harmhumansbythemselveswithoutthesorceresses working with them,
 this could raise a doubt as to whether by themselves demons could give
 respectable women a bad reputation, so that they would be considered
 sorceresses. For the demons could appear in the women’s guise to affect
 someone with sorcery, and this could result in such a person gaining a
 bad reputation, though innocent.
 Response. Certain preliminary observations should be made. First,
 it has been said that the demon can achieve nothing without God’s
 permission, as was explained in the last question294 of Part One of the
 292 This procedure of folk magic is copied from the source (Nider). In Ch. 15 on causing storms
 (144C–147A) the only method described is to pour water into a hole and stir it up, at which
 point the demon then takes it up into the air (146C), and this is the only method mentioned
 elsewhere (104C, 141D).
 293 An anecdote about exactly this procedure follows in the next chapter (134B–135A).
 294 81D–85C.
Part II 131B–D
 357
 work. It has also been said that less permission is given in connection
 with the righteous people in the state of Grace than in connection with
 sinners. Clearly, more things are permitted by God to afflict them than
 is the case with the righteous, in the same way that the demon has more
 power over sinners according to the passage, “When a brave man in
 arms guards...” [Luke 11:21]. Finally, although they can, with God’s 132C
 permission, harm the righteous in connection with external matters like
 reputation and the health of the body, nonetheless, because they know
 that this results in an increase in the merits of the righteous, they make
 less effort to harm them.
 It can be said on the basis of these observations that in this difficulty
 various considerations can be taken into account. The first is God’s per
mission. The second is the person who is thought to be respectable,
 since such people are not always in a state of Charity equal to their
 reputation for respectability. The third is the crime for which the inno
cent person would have a bad reputation, since it surpasses all other
 crimes in the world. Hence, it should be said that while by God’s per
mission any innocent person, whether in the state of Grace or not, can
 be harmed in the matters of fortune and reputation, nonetheless, in
 consideration of the crime itself and its severity, since sorcerers [“evil
doers”] are called this because of the enormity of their crimes according
 to Isidore (often cited), it can be said that it is not plausible that it can
 happen that some innocent person gains a bad reputation through a
 demon in the manner mentioned above. Again, this is so in several 132D
 respects. First, to give someone a bad reputation in connection with
 vices that are committed without an explicit or tacit agreement entered
 into with the demon, like theft and brigandage and carnal acts, is some
thing different from defamation concerning vices that cannot in any
 way be imputed to a human or committed without an explicit agree
mententered into with a demon, such as the works of sorceresses, which
 can becommittedonlythroughthepowerofdemons(forinstancewhen
 humans,domesticanimals orthefruits of the earth are affected with sor
cery), and hence cannot be imputed to the sorceresses in any other way.
 Therefore, although the demon could give them a bad reputation in
 connection with the other vices, it does not seem plausible for him to do
 so in connection with a vice that could not be committed without the
 demon.
 Also, up until now it has never happened or been found that some
 innocent person has been given a bad reputation in such a manner
358
 The Hammer of Witches 132D–133B
 133A
 133B
 and thus condemned to death because of this sort of bad reputation.
 Rather, when such a person is in trouble because of a bad reputation, he
 suffers no punishment apart from the imposition upon himofcanonical
 purgation, as will be explained in Part Three of the work on the topic
 of the method of sentencing sorceresses.295 Although it is stated there
 that in an instance when the suspect fails in the purgation he should be
 considered guilty, nonetheless an abjuration296 would still be imposed
 upon him before there is a further procedure concerning the penalty
 appropriate for the relapsed. Since we are bothering with hypothetical
 situations that have never in fact been perpetrated, no one doubts that
 God’s permission would not permit such things to happen in the future.
 Also, and a fortiori, since the protection of angels does not permit
 the innocent to get a bad reputation in connection with other, lesser
 accusations like brigandage and the like, it is less likely to permit this.
 To the contrary, the angel will more vigorously save the person assigned
 to his care from getting a bad reputation for such crimes.
 It is also not valid if someone raises as an objection the deeds of
 St. Germain, when demons sitting at the table in assumed bodies repre
sented women to the husbands whoslept with them, while deluding the
 guest as if those women were always arriving to eat and drink in their
 own bodies (this has already been mentioned).297 For not even in this
 case are the womenaltogetherexcused.Rather,suchthingsoftenhappen
 to women, as is noted according to 26,Q.5,“Episcopi.”298 There, such
 295 228D–230A.
 296 I.e., a formal denial under oath.
 297 The story of St. Germain as recounted in Nider 72A–B. There, St. Germain is visiting a house
 and is surprised when, after dinner, the table is set with food a second time. When told that the
 food is intended for “those good women” (for these figures from popular folklore, see 183C with
 n. 671), he decides to stay up to see who shows up for it. At night, he finds demons at the table
 and calls the family of the house, who identify them as their female neighbors (interestingly,
 the form here is feminine, but the version in the Legenda Aurea, which is presumably the
 ultimate source of the story, explicitly states that the demons were in the guise of both male and
 female neighbors). Germain then has people go to check on these neighbors, who are found to
 be at home.Hethencompelsthedemonstorevealthemselvesandindicatehowtheydeludethe
 people with such deceptions. Nider himself associates this event with the claim in the Canon
 “Episcopi” that Satan deludes women into imagining that they really ride through the air by
 convincing them of the reality of the imaginings that he creates in their minds, without stating
 overtly how exactly the canon relates to the demons pretending to be the neighbors. The story
 of St. Germain was previously mentioned in 105C, where the discussion of it makes it clear that
 the author would prefer to believe that the women had in fact left their husbands’ sides and
 been impersonated in their beds by demons, but could not bring himself to reject the legend
 outright.
 298 Even if one accepts the interpretation that the canon censures women for believing that they
 f
 ly through the air with Diana and Herodias when in fact they are being deluded in their
 imaginations by the demons, this seems not to undermine the innocence of the women who
Part II 133B–D
 359
 women are censured for thinking, when they are transported merely
 in the delusion of the fantasy, that they are really transported bodily,
 although, as was discussed above, sometimes they are in fact carried
 bodily by demons. No, the present investigation concerns their abil
ity to inflict all other bodily illnesses without exception with divine
 permission.
 On the basis of the previous discussion the conclusion is that they
 can do so, since no exception is made by the Doctors. Reason must also
 agree with this, since in other ways demons surpass everything bodily
 by their natural virtue, as has often been discussed.
 Deeds and events discovered by us confirm these conclusions. In
 connection with leprosy or epilepsy a major difficulty could perhaps
 arise as to whether they could inflict such illnesses, since illnesses of
 this kind commonly arise only as a result of long-standing and pre
existing inclinations and defects of the internal organs, but it has been 133C
 found that such illnesses have on occasion been inflicted through acts of
 sorcery.
 In the diocese of Basel within the areas of Lorraine and Alsace, a
 respectable worker uttered harsh words against a quarrelsome woman,
 and in outrage she replied with threats, to the effect that she would soon
 avenge herself on him. Although he paid little attention to the threats,
 the same night he felt that a blister had grown on his neck. With a little
 scratching andtouching,herealizedthathiswholefaceandhisneckwere
 puffed up and swollen, to such an extent that a fearsome semblance of
 leprosy appeared all over his body. He did not hesitate, and immediately
 summoned his friends and the chief magistrates. He told them what
 had happened regarding the woman’s threatening words. He stated that
 he would die with the confident suspicion that she had inflicted these
 acts of sorcery on him through the magical art.299 To make a long
 story short, she was arrested, exposed to questioning under torture, and
 admitted the accusation. When the judge asked quite carefully about
 the method and reason, she answered, “After that man attacked me 133D
 with insulting words and I went home raging with anger, an evil spirit
 were impersonated by demons in the legend of St. Germain. This strained logic indicates how
 strongly the author wished to deny any possibility that innocent women could be defamed by
 demons.
 299 What he meant was that he was willing to make this accusation on the point of death, when he
 would have to answer for his assertion to God. In the Brixen protocol (see n. 303), it is stated
 that a female relative of J¨ org Spies, whom Helena Scheuberin was accused of having poisoned
 told the unnamed deponent that she had heard him say at the end of life, “I am for this reason
 dying, because that woman killed me.”
360
 The Hammer of Witches 133D–134A
 began to ask the reason for my sadness. After I told him the details
 and kept asking for the ability to avenge myself, he asked, ‘What then
 do you want me to do to him?’ I answered, ‘I wish that he will always
 retain a swollen face.’ With this, he left and inflicted that illness on
 the man, exceeding my request. For I had not at all expected that he
 would smite him with such leprosy.” For this reason she was burned to
 ashes.
 134A
 In the diocese of Constance between Breisach and Freiburg, a certain
 woman with leprosy often tells many people– unless she has in the
 last two years paid off the debt of all flesh300– a story that resulted
 from a similar reason, in this case a dispute that was stirred up between
 her and another woman. When she left her house at night and started
 some task in front of the door, a warm wind suddenly blew into her
 face from the house of the other woman, which was opposite her own
 house.Shestatedthatsheimmediatelycontractedleprosy,whichshestill
 had.
 In the samediocese in the territory of the Black Forest, when a certain
 sorceress was being raised by the executioner from the ground onto the
 pile of wood prepared for her burning, she said, “I will give you your
 payment,” and with that she blew into his face, and he was immediately
 stricken throughout his body with fearsome leprosy, surviving for only
 a few days.301 Her horrible crimes are omitted for the sake of brevity,
 since the number of other stories that could be told about these points is
 virtually countless. We have frequently found that they inflicted epilepsy
 (thefalling disease) oncertainpeoplewitheggsthathadbeenburiedwith
 corpses, especially interred members of their sect. They used additional
 ceremonies, which should not be related, when they gave the eggs to
 someone in drink or food.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 11:
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.15, 16]
 300 Presumably, Institoris learned of this event, either directly from the woman or by hearsay, in
 1484.
 301 The author seems not to have noticed that this anecdote conflicts with the idea that upon being
 arrested sorceresses normally lost the power to harm the executors of public justice (86C–87C).
 In any case, the author is so unaware of any logical problem here that he does not attempt to
 explain why or how the devil has abandoned the sorceress to be burned alive yet at the same
 carries out her “infliction” of leprosy upon the executioner (it would undoubtedly be said that
 the spitting itself does not cause the leprosy, which would be inflicted by a demon in fulfillment
 of the sorceresses’ curse).
Part II 134A–C
 361
 the method by which they inflict other quite
 similar illnesses in particular on humans
 Chapter Twelve
 WHOcouldmake anaccountoftheirhavinginflictedotherillness 134B
 in the bodies of humans, like blindness or very sharp pains and agonies?
 Nonetheless, let us bring forward a few of the things which we have
 clearly seen with our eyes, and which came to the notice of one302 of the
 inquisitors.
 Once when an inquisition was being conducted into sorceresses in
 the town of Innsbruck, the following occurrence was related among
 others.303 A respectable person who was joined in marriage to a member
 of the Archduke’s retinue testified in the presence of a notary (and so on,
 according to legal requirement),304 that when she was acting as a servant
 to one of the citizens when she was a maiden, it happened that his wife
 grew weak with a severe headache.305 A certain woman arrived to heal
 it and was able to lessen the pain with her charms and certain other
 practices. “I carefully watched her procedure and saw that when she 134C
 poured water into a dish, the water rose up into another jar contrary to
 the nature of water.” (The woman also used other ceremonies,306 which
 it is unnecessary to relate.) “I observed that the headache in the lady was
 not being lessened in any way as a result of these procedures,307 and in
 302 No doubt Institoris.
 303 This chapter consists mostly of anecdotes derived from Institoris’s disastrous attempt to carry
 out an inquisition in Innsbruck in 1485. Though the direct records of the proceedings have
 been lost, a summary (protocol) of the depositions that was drawn up in Institoris’s absence
 has been preserved, and this independent evidence for the stories related here shows that the
 versions are generally accurate but not entirely reliable in detail.
 304 I.e., a detailed description of the legal requirements for a valid deposition is omitted.
 305 This story was related in the deposition that the wife of Ludwig Wagenstal gave on Oct. 18 1485
 against Barbara Hufeysen, one of the eight women accused of sorcery in Brixen. The victim of
 the headache, Barbara Pflieglin, had employed Wagenstallin as a servant and was herself one
 of the accused. As will be noted, the version here deviates in detail from the deposition. In
 particular, the story is recast to portray the husband as being aware of the instrument of sorcery
 that he shows the servant girl, whereas the deposition seems to indicate that his involvement in
 the discovery was accidental. On the previous day, Wagenstallin had given a deposition against
 Pflieglin in which she stated that she harbored suspicions against her because 1) the sorcery that
 befell her (Wagenstallin) took place in the house of Pflieglin, who neither protected her nor
 intervened with Hufeysen on her behalf, 2) her husband must have known about the sorcery
 since he found the bundle, and 3) he had forbidden his wife to be involved in such acts of
 sorcery with Hufeysen. The inquisitor may also have had in mind the potter who reveals his
 ex-girlfriend’s sorcery to her female victim (135A–C).
 306 Not according to the Brixen protocol.
 307 In the protocol, the procedure did help, and the victim claimed that she felt better in the
 presence of the supposed sorceress but the pain returned when the sorceress left.
362
 The Hammer of Witches 134C–135A
 134D
 135A
 outrage I uttered the following wordstothesorceress. ‘I don’t know what
 you are doing. You are merely doing superstitious things, for your own
 benefit.’308 Then the sorceress immediately rejoined, ‘Three days from
 now, you will tell whether or not they are superstitious,’309 which the
 outcome of the situation proved. For on the morning of the third day,
 while I was sitting and holding a spindle, great pain suddenly attacked
 mybody, first in the internal areas, so that there was no part of the body
 on which I did not feel terrible jabbings. Second, it seemed to me just
 as if burning coals were constantly being poured over my head. Third,
 on the skin of the body from the top of my head to the soles of my
 feet there would not have been the space of a needle point where there
 wasn’t a blister filled with white pus. I remained like this until the fourth
 day, wailing amidst these pains and hoping only for death. Finally, the
 husband of my lady told me to enter a certain barn.310 I walked slowly
 while he led the way until we were in front of the barndoor. ‘Look,’
 he said to me. ‘Above the door of the inn there is a piece of a white
 cloth.’311 I said, ‘I see it well.’ Then he said, ‘To the best of your abilities,
 take it away, because you will perhaps feel better.’ Then, to the best of
 my abilities, while I held the door with one arm, I grabbed the piece
 with the other.312 ‘Open it,’ said the lord, ‘and examine carefully what is
 placed in it.’313 When I undid the piece, I found many things wrapped
 up in it, in particular certain white kernels resembling the blisters on
 my body. I also saw seeds and peas, the likes of which I couldn’t even
 have eaten or looked at, along with the bones of snakes and of other
 animals.314 I was stunned at this, and when I asked the lord what to do,
 he said to throw everything into the fire. I did this, and all of a sudden,
 not after the passage of an hour or a quarter hour but the very instant
 that those things were thrown into the fire, I fully regained my prior
 health.”
 Many statements were made in depositions against his wife, whom
 she was serving, and through them the wife was suspected not so much
 308 In the vernacular original preserved in the Brixen protocol, the rebuke was: “The devil take
 you! The more you use your curse, the more pain she feels” (the German is not entirely clear).
 309 In the protocol, the reply was: “God grant, not three days will pass until the cursing will cause
 you distress as it does the lady” (again, the German is not entirely clear).
 310 In the deposition, they happened to go to the barn together to deal with the cattle.
 311 In the deposition, his attention was drawn to the bundle by the squeaking of mice.
 312 In the deposition, the husband took the bundle down himself because the servant girl’s illness
 prevented her from doing so.
 313 In the deposition, he opened it himself with a knife.
 314 In the deposition, the bundle contained a yellowish dust like a child’s excrement or pus, human
 hair, and various kernels of grain.
Part II 135A–C
 363
 lightly as strongly,315 particularly because of the great familiarity she
 had with sorceresses. Hence, it is presumed that she was privy to the
 placement of the device for sorcery and told this to her husband.316
 Then, after this was revealed in the manner described, the serving girl
 regained her health.
 In addition, as a public indication of the loathing felt for so great
 a crime, it would be useful to relate another act concerning sorcery
 inflicted on a certain person (again a female) in the same town.317 A
 respectable married woman came and gave a deposition according to
 the legal requirement (as above). “Behind the house,” she said, “I have
 an orchard. Adjacent to it my female neighbor has a garden. As I was
 standing at the gate of the orchard one day, I saw that someone was
 crossing from my neighbor’s garden to my orchard and that this was
 causing damage.318 While I was complaining and grumbling to myself 135B
 about both the crossing and the damage, my neighbor suddenly turned
 up andasked whether I suspected her. Being terrified because of her bad
 reputation, I uttered nothing but the following words, ‘The steps in the
 grass show the losses.’ Outraged because I was unwilling to get into a
 legal dispute with her through offensive words, as she perhaps intended,
 she left grumbling. Though I heard the words that she uttered, I still
 could not understand them. After a few days, however, a great illness
 befell me. I had pains in the belly and very sharp agonies from the left
 side to the right and the other way around, as if two swords or knives
 were stuck in my chest. Day and night I disturbed all the neighbors
 with my shouting, and as people gathered from hither and yon to give
 consolation, it happened that a potter, whose girlfriend in the crime of
 adultery had been my neighbor the sorceress, also came for a visit. He
 sympathized with my illness and left after some words of consolation. 135C
 The next day, however, he returned hurriedly, and among other words
 of consolation he stated, ‘I will make a test as to whether this illness has
 befallen you as a result of sorcery, and if this is found to be the case, I will
 restore yourhealth.’AsIlayinbed,hetooksomemoltenleadandpoured
 it into a dish full of water, supporting it over my body. When a certain
 315 “Light” and “strong” are technical legal terms for varieties of suspicion; see 221A–222D.
 316 Since sorcery is thought to be an activity of illiterate peasants (see 91C), it is here presumed that
 Pflieglin, who was wealthy enough to employ a servant, did not engage in the sorcery herself
 and hence needed to secure the services of some lower-class confederate to inflict the sorcery.
 317 This anecdote derives from the deposition made on October 17, 1485 by Gertrud R¨ otin against
 Barbara Selachin.
 318 The deposition indicates that the footprints were seen only sometime after they had been
 made. Presumably, the change to the present version is motivated by the idea that sorceresses
 intentionally cause trouble with their neighbors as part of the pact with the devil (see 201C).
364
 The Hammer of Witches 135C–136A
 135D
 136A
 image andtheshapesofvarious things appeared from the hardened lead,
 he said, ‘Look! This illness befell you as a result of sorcery. Some of the
 devices for sorcery are kept underneath the threshold of the door of the
 house. Let’s go there, and after they are removed, you will feel better.’
 So, my husband and he went together to remove the sorcery. When the
 potter lifted the threshold, he told my husband to put his hand into the
 hole that appeared and take out whatever he found, which he did.” First,
 he removed a wax image a palm’s length long. It was pierced through
 everywhere, having two needles going from side to side in the same
 way that she felt jabbings from the left side to the right. He then found
 various pieces of cloth containing very many things consisting of kernels
 as well as seeds and bones. “When those things were thrown into the
 f
 ire, I did get better, but not entirely. Although the agony and jabbings
 have stopped and the desire to eat has returned, down to the present day
 I have not by any means been restored to my previous health. When
 I demanded that the potter tell me why my previous health did not
 return, he answered, ‘There are other devices hidden elsewhere, but I
 amunable to find them.’ When I asked how in that case he had learned
 the location of the first items, he answered, ‘I learned these things from
 the love by which one friend reveals secrets to another.’ Therefore, since
 he was wooing an adulteress and I knew that this was my neighbor, I
 had grounds to suspect her.”
 What if I wanted to relate the individual events that were discovered
 in just that one town? A book would certainly have to be written. How
 many people who were blind, lame, barren and stricken with various
 illnesses gave testimony according to the legal requirement on the basis
 of a strong suspicion about sorceresses who foretold illnesses of this kind
 tothemingeneralorparticular!Thesorceressessaidthattheywouldsoon
 feel such ailments, either for all the days of their lives or until the death
 that they would promptly feel, and everything turned out according to
 the information fromthesorcerers, in terms of either the specified illness
 or death of others. That land is full of vassals and men-at-arms, and free
 time breeds vices. They sometimes wooed women and then decided
 to abandon the ones they had wooed and marry respectable women,
 and then, when the girlfriends realized that they had been rejected,
 the bed of marriage seldom lasted without the exaction of vengeance
 through the infliction of sorcery on the husband or wife, which does not
 happen to the husbands so much as it does to the wives.319 The pious
 319 See 94C for a detailed discussion of how being jilted causes women to become involved in
 sorcery.
Part II 136A–C
 365
 conjecture would be that the reason for this is that once the wives have
 been killed or rendered barren, the men would have to woo their prior 136B
 girlfriends.
 WhenacookoftheArchdukehadtakenarespectable foreign woman
 as his wife, his sorceress girlfriend foretold sorcery and death for the
 young girl in the hearing of many respectable people on a public street.
 Stretching forth her hand,shesaid,“Youwillnotrejoiceinyourhusband
 for long.”Straightaway,shetooktobedthenextdayandpaidoffthedebt
 of all flesh afewdayslater, bearing witness inherfinalmoment,“Behold,
 I die stating that that woman is killing me through her acts of sorcery
 with God’s permission.”320 God clearly arranged another wedding for
 her, a wedding for the better in heaven.
 In this way, as public repute attests, a certain knight was killed by
 acts of sorcery, as were many others whom I refrain from mentioning.
 Among these is a certain nobleman’s son. His girlfriend asked him to
 spend the night with her, but he did not want to and indicated to her
 through his servant that he could not spend that night with her because 136C
 he was held up by certain business affairs. In outrage, she gave an order
 to the servant, saying, “Tell the young nobleman, he will not distress me
 for long.” With this, he did fall ill the following day and was buried a
 few days later.
 There are also such sorceresses as know how to affect judges with
 sorcery merely through the look of their faces and the glance of their
 eyes, boasting that the judges cannot even inflict any bother on them.321
 Also, they know how to impose silence when any others have been kept
 under arrest because of criminal accusations and are exposed to the most
 severe tortures to make them tell the truth.322 The result is that it will
 never be possible for them to reveal their crimes.
 In addition, there are those who, in order to commit acts of sorcery,
 have disgraced with the vilest words the Purity of the Most Glorious
 Virgin Mary and the Nativity of Our Savior from her inviolate womb,
 as theystrucktheimageofthecrucifixwithwhipsandknives.323 Itwould
 not be useful to relate these words and the individual acts, since they
 320 For the sense of this assertion, see n. 299.
 321 Cf. 214A–B.
 322 For the “sorcery of silence,” see 210C.
 323 This information derives from depositions given by several witnesses on August 16 and 18, 1485
 against a baptized Jewish woman named Ennel Notterin and two others. They were accused of
 having whipped a “martyr image” (Martyrbild) of Jesus and of having uttered “many wicked
 words” against God about five years previously.
366
 The Hammer of Witches 136C–137B
 136D
 137A
 137B
 are extremely offensive to the ears of the pious.324 They have, however,
 been set down and recorded in documents, including the way a certain
 baptized Jewess persuaded other young women to act. One of them was
 called Walpurgis,325 and when, in her final moment, she was urged by
 the bystanders to confess her sins, she shouted out, “I have handed over
 mybody and soul to the Devil, and have no hope of forgiveness.” With
 that, she died.
 These details have been written down not to disgrace the most illus
trious Archduke but to praise and glorify him. As a Catholic prince who
 is especially zealous for the Faith, he has in fact made no small efforts in
 the extermination of sorceresses, with the assistance of the most reverend
 BishopofBrixen.Instead, these stories have been related as a public indi
cation of the loathing and hatred felt for so great a crime. In that case,
 how can those who do not cease to avenge the injuries to men tolerate
 injuries to the Creator and the insults to the Faith (temporal losses being
 left out of account)? For the thing that forms the principal foundation
 for all of them is the rejection of the Faith.
 the method by which midwife sorceresses inflict
 greater losses when they either kill babies
 or offer them to demons by dedicating them
 with a curse
 Chapter Thirteen
 NORshould the instancesofharminflictedbysorceressmid
wives on children be passed over in silence. First, how they kill them;
 second, how in offering them to demons they dedicate them with a
 curse.
 InthetownofZaberninthedioceseofStrasburg,acertainrespectable
 womanwhoisverydevoted to the MostBlessed Virgin Mary frequently
 relates the following occurrence, recounting to the individuals who
 patronize the public inn that she owns (which has a black eagle as its
 sign)326 that it happened to her. “I was pregnant by my lawful husband,
 who is now dead, and when the days for giving birth were approaching,
 324 “May you feel pain in your senses as Mary felt in her ‘notch’ [a euphemism for “vagina”], when
 she bore Jesus.” These words are ascribed to the baptized Jewish woman, but the identity of the
 addressee is not specified.
 325 Not to be confused with the Walpurgis mentioned in 99C.
 326 In the Middle Ages, inns were known by symbols portrayed on signs.
Part II 137B–138A
 367
 a certain midwife rudely demanded that I should accept her services as
 midwife for the child. Being aware of her bad reputation I had decided
 to hire someone else, but with soothing words I pretended that I would
 grant her request. When the birthing time was at hand, however, I 137C
 hired a different midwife. The first one was outraged and entered my
 bedroomonenightbarelyeightdayslater with two other women.When
 they approached the bed in which I was lying, I wanted to summon my
 husband, who was sleeping in another room, but I remained bereft of
 the use of my individual limbs and tongue, so that apart from seeing
 and hearing I could not even move a toe. Standing between the other
 two, the midwife uttered the following words. ‘Well then, this awful
 woman’s refusal to employ me as her midwife will not go unpunished.”’
 When the two at her side pleaded for the woman, saying, “But she’s
 never harmed any of our people,” the sorceress rejoined, “She has given
 me this displeasure. I will put some things in her guts, but as a favor to
 you she will feel no pain for a half year. When that time has elapsed,
 however, she will suffer a fair amount of torture.” “So she came up 137D
 and touched my stomach with her hand, and it seemed as if she had
 torn out my guts and put in certain things, though I wasn’t able to see
 them. After they left and I regained the strength to shout, I immediately
 called my husband and told him what had happened. He wished to
 ascribe the cause to childbirth, however, saying, ‘You women in labor are
 bothered by very manydelusions andfantasies.’ Since he was completely
 unwilling to believe my words, I replied, ‘Well, she’s granted me half a
 year. If no pain comes after that time has passed, I will believe what
 you say.”’ She then said similar things to her son, a cleric who at that
 time was a rural archdeacon (he had come to visit her that day). To
 make a long story short, after six months to the day had passed, she
 suddenly suffered such savage torture in the guts that she could not 138A
 stop screaming, disturbing everyone day and night. Being very devoted,
 as has already been stated, to the Virgin Queen of Mercy, she fasted on
 bread and water every Sunday, believing that in this way she would be
 freed by her help. Then one day, when she had to carry out her bodily
 functions, all that filth burst forth from her body, and after calling her
 husband and son, she said, “Do these things belong to my fantasy?
 Didn’t I say, ‘After a half year the truth will be known’? Or has anyone
 ever seen me eat thorns and bones along with pieces of wood?” For rose
 thorns a palm long hadbeenputinside ofheralong with countless other
 things.
368
 The Hammer of Witches 138A–C
 138B
 138C
 Furthermore, as was made clear in Part One327 of the work from the
 confession of the serving girl who was induced to repent in Breisach,
 greater losses are inflicted on the Faith by midwives in connection with
 this HeresyofSorceresses,andthishasalsobeenprovenbytheconfession
 of certain others who were later burned to ashes. In the town of Thann
 in thedioceseofBaselonemidwifewhowasburnedtoashesconfessedto
 having killed more than forty children by the following method. When
 they emerged from the womb, she would stick a pin into their heads
 through the crown straight down into the brain.
 Another midwife (this one in the diocese of Strasburg) confessed
 that she had killed countless children (there was no agreement as to the
 number). Shewascaughtinthefollowing way. Shehadbeensummoned
 from one town to another to serve some woman as midwife, and at the
 end of the job, she wished to return home. As she passed out through
 the town gate, by chance the arm of a newborn child fell to the ground
 from the linen cloth in which she was wrapped and in which the arm
 had been rolled up. This was seen by people sitting within the gateway,
 and after she passed, they lifted what they thought to be a piece of meat
 from the ground and looked at it quite carefully. After they realized by
 the joints that it was not a piece of meat but the arm of a child, they
 had a meeting with the chief magistrates. When it was discovered that a
 baby had died before baptism and was lacking an arm, the sorceress was
 arrested. Exposed to questioning under torture, she revealed the crime.
 In this way, as has already been said, she confessed that she had killed
 babies without number.
 As for the reason why, it clearly should be presumed that they are
 sometimes forced to do such things against their will at the insistence
 of evil spirits. For the Devil knows that such children are excluded from
 enteringtheKingdomofHeavenbecauseofthepenaltyoflossororiginal
 sin. Hence, the Final Judgment, in which they328 will be consigned to
 eternal torments, is further postponed, since the world will be ended
 whenthenumberoftheElectisreachedandthatnumberwillbereached
 all the more slowly.329 Also, as was discussed in the foregoing,330 at the
 327 Presumably, the vague reference in 64A–B is what is meant, though the related statement in
 97B is probably what is intended.
 328 I.e., the demons.
 329 For other references to this notion, see 97C (with 214D), 211D (cf. 97A). The underlying idea is
 that unbaptized children are notallowedintoheavenandthatbyreducingthenumberofpeople
 admitted to heaven, Satan postpones the end of the world. This notion is to be connected with
 the idea in the Author’s Justification (2A) that Satan’s evil is becoming worse as the world nears
 its end.
 330 104A.
Part II 138C–139B
 369
 urging of the demons, the sorceresses have to make pastes suitable for
 their uses out of the limbs of such children.
 Another reason not to pass over this horrific deed in silence is to
 give a public indication of the loathing felt for so great a crime. Even
 whentheydonotkill babies, they offer them to the demons by devoting
 them with a curse in the following manner. At the birth of the child, 138D
 in an instance where the woman in labor is not herself a sorceress,
 the midwife takes the baby out of the room as if to do something to
 revive him, and raising him up she sacrifices him to the Prince of the
 Demons (Lucifer) and to the other demons (in the kitchen above the
 f
 ire).
 As a certain man relates, he noticed at the birthing time that contrary
 totheusualhabitofwomenlying-in,hiswifewouldpermitnowomanto
 come in to her except her own daughter, who was performing the job of
 midwife. For this reason, he wished to find out the reason for something
 like this and secretly hid in the house at that time. Then he observed the
 procedure for the sacrilege and the sacrifice to the Devil in the manner
 stated above. He also observed, as he thought, that the baby was being
 held up by means of a strap for hanging containers, supported not by
 human assistance but by that of the Devil. Being upset, since he had
 also heard both the horrible words used to invoke the demons and the 139A
 other most unspeakable rites, he insisted urgently that the baby should
 be baptized immediately. The baby had to be brought to another village,
 which was where the parish church stood, and when they had to cross a
 certain river by bridge, he lunged with drawn sword at his daughter, who
 wascarryingthebaby.Hesaidinthehearingoftwomenwhoseassistance
 he had enlisted, “I don’t want you to carry the baby over the bridge.
 Either he will walk the bridge by himself or you will be drowned in the
 river.” She was terrified at this, as were the other women present. When
 they asked whether he was in his right mind– all the others, with the
 exception of the two men whose assistance the father had enlisted, were
 unaware of whathadhappened–hesaid,“Youhorrible woman,byyour
 magical art you made the baby climb the rope. Now too make him cross
 the bridge withoutanyonecarryinghimorIwilldrownyouintheriver.”
 Under this compulsion, she put the child on the bridge, and when she
 invoked the demon by her art, the baby was suddenly seen on the other
 side of the bridge. After the child was baptized and the father returned 139B
 home, he could now convict his daughter of sorcery through witnesses,
 since he could hardly have proven the first crime of the offering, being
 the only witness to that sacrilegious rite. Therefore, after the time of
370
 The Hammer of Witches 139B–C
 churching331 he accused his daughter and her mother before a judge.
 They were burned to ashes together, and the crime of the sacrilegious
 offering, which is commonly performed by midwives, was revealed.
 At this point a doubt arises as to what work or effectiveness this
 sacrilegious offering can bring about in such children. To this it can
 be said that just as the demons bring these things about for three rea
sons, they serve three very unspeakable purposes for the demons. The
 f
 irst is their arrogance. This is always rising according to the passage,
 “The arrogance of those who hate you is always rising” [Ps. 73:23], and
 for this reason they strive, to the best of their ability, to conform with
 Divine Service and ceremonies, so that in this way they will be more
 139C
 deceptive under the guise of an apparent good.332 This is why they ask
 magicians for virgin children, whether male or female, when they333
 are able to reveal in mirrors or fingernails of sorcerers things that have
 been stolen or other hidden items.334 They would be able to show the
 same thing through corrupt people, but the Devil does it this way so
 that he may falsely pretend that he loves chastity. In fact, he hates it,
 since he hates most of all the Most Chaste Virgin because she tram
pled on his head (Gen. 3[:15]).335 Hence, in this way they deceive the
 souls of sorcerers and those who trust them through the vice of lack
 of faith under the guise of virtue. The third purpose is to promote the
 growth of this breach of the Faith in furtherance of their own interests
 by preserving sorceresses who have been dedicated to them from the
 cradle.
 As a result of these purposes, this sacrilegious offering achieves three
 things in the child. First, it is the case that an external offering is made
 to Godinperceivable things, like wine, bread and the fruits of the earth.
 (This is a token of due submission and honor according to the passage,
 331 See n. 20.
 332 The effort to conform with ecclesiastical rites in order the better to deceive is apparently the
 second reason, though this is not overtly stated.
 333 I.e., the demons (see next note).
 334 A commonpractice of folk magic was to look into a reflective object in order to see the location
 of something hidden. In some versions of this superstition, it was thought best to have someone
 pure like a virgin to do the looking. For the procedure, see Kiekhefer (1997), 96–122.
 The sense of this sentence has been somewhat obscured through adaptation. Nider merely
 discussed the questions of “objects that virgins see in the mirrors or fingernails of sorcerers,”
 and of why sorcerers prefer to make use of virgins for this purpose. The author apparently
 felt compelled to spell out that the demons (here somewhat confusingly designated simply as
 “they”) ask for virgins in order to perform their feat.
 335 This is a reference to God’s judgment on the serpent for bringing about the fall of Adam and
 Eve through tempting Eve. Among other things, she was to trample upon the snake’s head, and
 this is interpreted here in an allegorical manner, the serpent being taken to be a form of the
 Devil and the woman who tramples upon him to be the Virgin Mary.
Part II 139C–140A
 371
 “You will not appear empty-handed in the sight of the Lord your God”
 in Ecclesiasticus 25 [actually, 35:6]. Such things should not and cannot
 later be used for any other, profane purposes, and for this reason Pope
 Damasus says (10, Quest. 1,[Decretum 2.10.1.15]) that offerings that are
 made within the church belong only to the priests, with the provision 139D
 that the priests should not simply use them for their own benefit, but
 should faithfully expend them partly on the things pertaining to Divine
 Service and partly for the benefit of the poor.) Hence, as for a child who
 hasbeenofferedinthiswaytotheDevilasasignofsubmissionandhonor
 being used for the divine purposes of just and fruitful submission both
 on his own behalf and on that of others, how is it possible for this to be
 done by Catholics?336 For who can say that the crimes of mothers or the
 sins ofotherscannotredounduponthechildrenintermsofpunishment?
 Perhaps the man who pays attention to the prophetic saying, “The son
 shall not carry the iniquity of the father” [Ezekiel 18:20] can. But what of
 the passage, “I am a jealous god, visiting the sins of the fathers upon the
 children down to the third and fourth generation” (Exodus 20[:5])? The
 senseofthetwopassagesisthatthefirstisunderstoodintermsofspiritual
 penalty in the judgment of heaven (God) and not in the judgment of a
 court, andthis is a penalty that fundamentally affects the soul, whether it
 is a penalty of loss, like the removal of glory, or a penalty of the sensation,
 that is, the fire of torment in hell (it is always the case that a person 140A
 is punished with these penalties only through his own guilt, either one
 contracted in terms of Original Sin or one committed in terms of sin by
 act), but since the second authoritative passage is understood to concern
 the imitators of the crimes of the fathers, as Gratian explains (§“Quibus”
 at end of the Commentary on 1,Q.4 [Decretum 2.1.4.11 Comm. §11],
 where he also gives other explanations), a person is punished with any
 other penalties in the judgment of God not only for his own guilt,
 whether he has already committed it or is going to later (in order for it
 to be avoided) but also for someone else’s instance of guilt.337 It is not
 valid if it is said that in that case he is being punished without reason and
 without guilt, which oughttobethereasonforapenalty,sinceaccording
 336 The rhetoric of this sentence rather obscures the thought, but the sense is that if a baby has
 been dedicated to Satan by his mother or a midwife, he can no longer be of any use for pious
 purposes because of God’s retribution (for the adult’s crime, as the subsequent text shows).
 337 Actually, what Gratian says is that it is true that in certain incidents in the Old Testament
 children seem to be punished along with their parents, but he claims that this was only if they
 adhered to their parents’ criminality, and that if they gave up their parents’ evil ways, they would
 receive God’s mercy. Thus, Gratian does not seem to support the interpretation here.
372
 The Hammer of Witches 140A–C
 140B
 140C
 to the rule of the law no one should be punished without guilt unless
 there is an underlying reason [Liber Sextus 5.12]. Hence, we can in fact
 say that there is always an underlying reason, indeed a very just one,
 although it is unknown to us (Augustine in 24,Q.4, [actually, Decretum
 2.23.4.24.Comm.§3]: “Even if we cannot penetrate the depths of God’s
 judgments with reference to the commission of the deed, we still know
 that what He has said is true and that what He has done is just.”).338
 There is a distinction in connection with children who are offered.
 Speaking of the innocent, who are not offered to the demons by sorcer
ess mothers but are secretly snatched away by midwives, as was stated
 above,339 from the embrace and womb of a respectable mother, it should
 be the pious belief that such innocent children are not delivered to such
 a degree that they are rendered imitators of such great crimes but instead
 imitate their father’s virtues.
 The second thing achieved by this sacrilegious offering is that the
 sorceress offering the child commends its body and soul to the Devil
 as if to its beginning and end, an end that is eternal damnation in the
 same way that when a person offers himself to God as a sacrifice, he
 recognizes God as his beginning and end, creation being the beginning
 and glorification the end. (This kind of sacrifice is more worthy than
 all other external sacrifices made by him according to the passage, “A
 sacrifice to God is a spirit in tribulation. Do not despise, O God, a heart
 contrite and humbled” [Ps 50:19; Eng. version 49:17].) Hence, it will be
 possible for the child to be freed from the repayment of so great a debt
 only by a miracle.
 A certain story, or rather many, are frequently told about children
 unwittingly offered to demons from the womb by their mothers as a
 result of some violent emotion and mental disturbance. It was only
 with the greatest difficulty that they could be freed in adulthood from
 the jurisdiction that the demons usurped for themselves with God’s
 permission. It is well known that the Book of Examples of the Most Blessed
 Virgin Mary is filled with such stories. One in particular concerns the
 man who could not be freed from the harassments of demons by the
 Supreme Pontiff. Eventually he was sent to a certain holy man living
 in the East, and even then it was with the greatest difficulty that he
 was rescued from that jurisdiction through the intervention of the Most
 Glorious Virgin. Hence, if this happens as revenge for an unwitting
 presentation (not to say “offering”), when the mother is outraged at
 338 Cf. Apoc. 16:7, 19:2.
 339 138D.
Part II 140C–141A
 373
 having to present carnal union to her husband, and after he says, “I
 hope fruit results from that,” she replies, “May that fruit be given to 140D
 the Devil,” the severity of God’s punishment was clearly equal to the
 savagery with which He is thought to act, when the offense to God’s
 majesty is clearly so great.
 Thethirdthingachievedbythissacrilegious offering is the habitual340
 inclination to inflict acts of sorcery of this kind on humans, domestic
 animals and the fruits of the earth. The reason for this can be assigned
 on the basis of the conclusions reached by Thomas (Second of Second,
 Quest. 108 [2/2.108.4.Ra1] about the secular punishment by which some
 people are punished for instances of guilt on the part of others).341 He
 says that because children are a certain kind of property of the father
 in their body and slaves and animals are the property of their owners,
 when someone is to be punished in all his property, the children too
 are often punished for their parents. This reason differs from the one
 mentioned above342 concerning the sins of the fathers (that God visits
 them unto the third and fourth generation), because, as stated there,
 this is understood in terms of the imitators of the fathers’ crimes, while 141A
 the present reason reaches its conclusions about the punishment of the
 children for the parents when they imitate the fathers’ crimes not in
 action through evils deeds but only in habitual attitude. This is why the
 son born of David’s adultery died immediately, and the animals of the
 Amalekites were ordered to be killed, although there is also a mystical
 reason in events of this kind, as is stated in Gratian, §“Parvulos” of his
 Commentary on 1,Q.4, Ch. 11 [Decretum 2.1.4.11. Comm. §10].343
 On the basis of all these facts, it is not inappropriate to say that
 children of this kind are disposed to commit acts of sorcery until the
 end of their lives. For it is clear that since the Old and New Testaments
 the Devil has not ceased to taint an offering to him in the same way
 that when parents dedicate to God the progeny they are to beget, God
 sanctifies the offering to him, as the deeds of the Saints demonstrate.
 The number of deeds that could be cited is virtually countless. This
 is how many Patriarchs and Prophets, like Isaac and Samuel, and how
 Alexius, Nicolaus and countless others, were assisted to a saintly way of
 life by very many acts of Grace.
 340 See Pt. 1 n. 370.
 341 Actually, the heading to this article is, “Whether punishment is carried out against those who
 have sinned involuntarily.”
 342 139D.
 343 Actually, Gratian does not say this.
141B
 374
 The Hammer of Witches 141B–D
 Experience shows that the daughters of sorceresses always have a bad
 reputation in similar regards, being imitators of their mothers’ crimes,
 andthatinfact virtually the entire progeny is tainted. The reason for this
 and for all the foregoing is that as a result of the agreement entered into
 with the demon they must always leave behind a successor and strive
 with the greatest effort to increase this breach of the Faith. How could
 it have happened that immature girls of eight or ten years, as has very
 often been found to be the case, stirred up storms or hail if the mother
 had not dedicated the baby to the Devil with a curse in such an offering
 as a result of such an agreement? For by themselves children could not,
 as a result of a renunciation of the Faith, achieve such effects in the ways
 that grown-up sorceresses are able to do from the beginning, since they
 probably have no awareness of any Article of the Faith.344
 141C
 141D
 Let us bring forward some of these deeds. When a certain peasant
 in the region of Swabia decided to inspect the crops in the fields with
 his little daughter, who was barely eight years old, in silent thought he
 hoped for rain because of the dryness of the earth and said, “Oh, no!
 Whenwill the rain come?” The girl heard her father’s words, and out of
 the simplicity of her spirit she said, “Father, if you want rain, I will make
 it come quickly.” The father asked, “Where did you get this ability? Do
 you know how to cause rain?” She answered, “Certainly, and not just
 rain. I also knowhowtostirupstormsandhail.”Thefatherasked,“Who
 taught you?” She answered, “My mother. It is true that she told me not
 to tell this to anyone.” When then the father asked, “And how did she
 teach you?” she answered, “She entrusted me to a master, and I can get
 him at any time for any request I want.” When the father asked, “Did
 you see him?” she answered, “I have sometimes seen men going in to
 mother and coming out.” When he asked who they were, she answered,
 “Our masters, to whom she also turned over and entrusted you. They
 are great helpers and rich men.” Terrified, the father asked whether she
 could summon hail at that moment, and the girl said, “Certainly. If I
 get a little water, I will.” The father then took the girl by the hand to
 a flowing stream and said, “Do so, but only on our field.” The girl put
 her hand in the water and in the name of her master moved it according
 to the teaching of her mother. All of a sudden, rain poured over that
 344 The thought seems to be that sorcery necessarily involves demons, who act only after the
 Catholic faith has been overtly rejected, but children cannot do this since they do not yet know
 anything about the faith that they can reject. Therefore, on the assumption that children do
 commit acts of sorcery, the necessary rejection of the faith is attributed to their mothers (which
 would then be a sort of reversal of the procedure by which the godfather or godmother accepts
 Christianity on behalf of the baby during infant baptism).
Part II 141D–142B
 375
 f
 ield alone. Seeing this, the father said, “Make hail, too, but only over
 one of our fields.” When the girl did this too, the father, who had now
 become certain from experience, accused his wife before a judge; after
 being arrested and convicted, she was burned to ashes. The daughter
 was baptized anew and dedicated to God, and after that she could no
 longer produce those effects.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 13:
 Aq., Summa 2/2.108.4
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.2]
 there follows a discussion of the method by
 which sorceresses inflict various forms of harm
 on domestic animals
 Chapter Fourteen
 WHENthe Apostle says, “Does God care about oxen?” [1 Cor. 142A
 9:9], he means to imply that everything is subject to God’s providence,
 including both humans and domestic animals, and God preserves
 each of these categories after its measure, as the psalmist says, and the
 children of humans are clearly guided under the protection and covering
 of His wings to a greater degree [Psalm 35:7–8]. If, I say, sorcerers afflict
 humans, including the innocent and righteous and the sinners and
 parents through their children, who are part of their property, then a for
tiori since domestic animals and the fruits of the earth are likewise part
 of the property of humans, clearly no one would presume to doubt that
 with the co-operation of God’s permission sorceresses can inflict various
 forms of harm on them too. In this way, Job was stricken by the Devil,
 so that he lost all his domestic animals. In this way, the smallest village
 can be found in which womendonotceasetotaint each other’s cows, to
 deprive them of milk and very often to kill them, though they start with
 the smallest kind of harm, which one can guess is the deprivation of
 milk.
 If there is a question about the method by which they can achieve
 this, the response can be given that according to Albert (Animals,Bk.3 142B
 [3.2.9]), in any animal milk works on a monthly cycle like any other flow
 in a woman, and when such a flow is not restrained by some weakness
 or as a result of the state of nature or of an incidental illness, it is by
376
 The Hammer of Witches 142B–D
 the working of sorcery that it is restrained or sometimes removed. Milk
 is restrained as a result of the natural state after the conception of a
 fetus and as a result of an incidental illness, like the many ways that this
 happens as a result of eating some plant that has the natural ability to
 restrain milk or to alter a cow.
 142C
 142D
 There are different methods by which they can produce these results
 through sorcery. During the night-time at times that are more sacred
 (clearly on the instructions of the Devil to offend God’s majesty more
 greatly), some women take a position in any corner of their house,
 holding a pitcher between their thighs, and after sticking a knife or some
 tool into the wall or apillar andpositioning their hands for milking, they
 invoke their devil. This devil always works with them for all purposes,
 and she explains that she is affecting to milk such-and-such a cow from
 such-and-such a house, this cow being one that is healthier and more
 plentiful in milk. Then the Devil immediately takes the milk from the
 teats of that cow and puts it in the place where the sorceress is sitting,
 as if it were flowing from the tool.345
 When such things are preached to the congregation, no one receives
 instruction from them because however much someone may invoke a
 demon and think that he could achieve these effects through the mere
 invocation, he would be deceiving himself, since he lacks the funda
mental element of that breach of the Faith, that is, he has not rendered
 homageanddeniedthe Faith.346 This is why I have set down these state
ments despite the fact that many think that these facts and others that
 have been set down should not be preached to the congregation because
 of the danger of giving instruction, though it is impossible for someone
 to be instructed in the manner described. Rather, these statements serve
 as a public indication of the loathing felt for so great a crime, and they
 should be preached (though not always) in order that judges will be fur
ther inflamed to avenge so great a crime (the renunciation of the Faith).
 The laity do attach greater importance to temporal losses of this kind,
 since they are more involved in earthly than in spiritual emotions, and
 therefore when it is affirmed to them that such things can be done, they
 are more savage in their desire to punish these people. In any case, one
 can explain the Devil’s cleverness.
 345 Note how a procedure from traditional folk magic is interpreted as form of Satanism.
 346 The point is that even if one knows the procedure in its entirety, it cannot be shown to work
 without a renunciation of the faith, since without that the demons, who are the ones that
 actually steal the milk, will not do so (see the statements about the fundamental importance of
 the renunciation in 137A and 141B).
Part II 142D–143B
 377
 I know certain people who belonged to a certain association,347 and
 once when they were on a journey in May-time, they sat in a pasture
 by a flowing stream and wished to eat May butter. One of them said in
 agreement with a pact, whether silent or explicit, that he had previously
 entered into with a demon, “I will create excellent May butter,” and he
 immediately took off his clothes and entered the flowing stream. Not
 sitting but standing, he turned his back against the current, and in the
 sight of the others, he first uttered certain words and moved the water
 with his hands behind his back, and then after a little while he brought
 them a large amount of butter shaped in the way that village women
 sell it in May time. When the others tasted it, they affirmed that it 143A
 was excellent butter. From this event it can first be inferred that he was
 certain of his procedure, and that the reason why he knew that the Devil
 would attend to his prayers was either simply because of the explicit
 agreement that he had, as a sorcerer, entered into with the demon or
 because of a silent agreement. If the first is the case, then his having been
 a real sorcerer needs no discussion. If the second is the case, however,
 he made use of the Devil’s support, because he had been offered and
 dedicated to the Devil with a curse by his mother or a midwife. If
 someone objects that perhaps the Devil brought the butter without any
 silent or explicit agreement and also without any offering having been
 made in the way described above, the response is that it is never the case
 that someone makes use of the Devil’s support in similar works without
 invoking him, because someone does so by the very act of seeking a
 demon’s aid in violation of the Faith, as an apostate does according to
 the determination of the Doctor in the Commentary on Pronouncements
 (Bk. 2, Dist. 8 on the difficulty as to whether it is apostasy to make use
 of the aid of demons [actually, 2.7.3.Ag2]). Although Albert the Great 143B
 [Sent. 2.7.12.Sol.] agrees with the other Doctors, he says more overtly
 that in such cases there is always apostasy either by word or by work.
 If invocation, summoning, incense-burning and adoration take place,
 then an open agreement is being entered into with the demon without
 someonehandingoverhisbodyandsoulinwholeorinpartalongwitha
 renunciation of the Faith, because by the very act of invoking the demon
 he already commits open apostasy with the words. If, on the other hand,
 aninvocationtakesplacenotthroughwordsbutonlythroughthesimple
 work, in that he performs the kind of work that can be brought about
 only through the assistance of demons, then whether he performs it by
 347 The Latin merely says “people in a certain fellowship,” and the sense of this is by no means
 clear. Perhaps they were all “fellows” in some educational institution.
378
 The Hammer of Witches 143B–D
 143C
 143D
 starting in the name of the Devil or through other unknown words or
 without any word but with such an intent, then it is, as has been said
 and as Albert adds, apostasy by work. Since it is an insult to the Faith
 to expect something from a demon or to learn something through him,
 it is also apostasy. Hence, here too the conclusion reached is that by
 whatever method the magician mentioned above caused this, he clearly
 did so through a silent or explicit agreement, and if he did so without an
 explicit agreement, then in that case he probably achieved such effects,
 as sorcerers regularly do, through a silent and secret agreement entered
 into either by his own action or by his mother or a midwife. (By “by
 his own action” I mean that he only performed the work, expecting the
 effect from the Devil.)
 Thesecondthingthatcanbeinferredfromthatprocedureorasimilar
 one is that since the Devil cannot produce new appearances348 of things,
 the fact that natural butter so suddenly bursts forth from water did not
 happen through the changing of the water into milk by the demons’
 virtue. Rather, the demon took butter hidden elsewhere and put it in
 the man’s hands, or he offered it to him after taking it from natural milk
 (from a natural cow) and suddenly (so to speak) congealing it into the
 nature of butter, since he knows how to achieve in a very short time
 what the art of women achieves over a stretch of time in forming butter.
 Tothesameprocedureisascribed the methodbywhichcertain super
stitious people who do nothavewineorothernecessities take a bottle or
 other container at night-time and by walking down some road suddenly
 have a jar full of wine. In this instance, the Devil takes natural wine from
 some jar and fills the bottle for the person.
 Concerning the method by which sorcerers kill animals and domes
tic animals, it should be said that like humans, domestic animals are
 killed by touch and glance or by glance alone or when sorcerers place
 some sorcery (device for sorcery) underneath the threshold of the door
 of the barn or in a place where they are regularly watered. This is how
 the women burned to ashes in Ravensburg (they will also be mentioned
 below)349 were always instructed by the demons to inflict the sorcery
 where the horses were of superior quality or the domestic animals fat
ter. When they were asked about the method by which they achieved
 such effects, the one called Agnes answered that they hid certain things
 underneath the threshold of the door of the barn, and when asked what
 348 Latin species, used in the Canon “Episcopi” to describe the new “varieties” into which it is
 erroneous to think that anyone but God can change creatures.
 349 See 145D–147A.
Part II 144A–C
 379
 things, she answered, “The bonesofvarious varieties of animals.” When 144A
 further asked in whose name, she answered, “In the name of the Devil
 and the other demons.”350 The other one was named Anna, and she
 harmed one of the citizens by affecting twenty-three horses of his with
 sorcery one after the other, because he was a hauler.351 Having bought
 a twenty-fourth and reached the depths of poverty, the hauler stood in
 the door of the barn and said to the sorceress, who was standing in the
 door of her house, “Hey, you! I swear to God and His Mother that if
 that horse dies, I will kill you with my own hands!” Terrified at this,
 the sorceress left that horse unharmed for him. When she was arrested
 and asked about the method by which she achieved these effects, she
 answered that she had done nothing other than dig a hole, and after
 it was dug, the Devil put into it certain things unknown to her. From
 this event it can be inferred that they need only apply their hand or
 glance, the purpose being that either way, the sorceress should work
 with the Devil. Otherwise, if the sorceress did not cooperate, the Devil 144B
 wouldnotbepermittedtheabilitytoactsavagelyagainstcreatures,aswas
 discussedbefore352 (thishappensbecauseofthegreaterinsulttotheGod’s
 majesty).
 Shepherds have very often seen certain animals, after jumping three
 or four times into the air, suddenly fall to the ground and die, clearly
 through the virtue of demons at the insistence of sorceresses. In the
 diocese of Augsburg between the town of F¨ ussen and the Eisenberg353 a
 certain very rich man stated that he and others had had more than forty
 domestic animals (oxen and cows) affected by sorcery, and this took
 place within the space of a year at a time when no plague or other illness
 preceded. As a distinguishing characteristic he said that when they die
 of plague or some other random illness, they do not collapse suddenly
 but gradually, one after another, but this act of sorcery removed all their
 vigor all of a sudden, so that everyone thought that they had been killed
 by acts of sorcery. I have written this down as the true number, but I
 think that he stated a higher one. In any case, it is very true that in 144C
 some areas, especially in the Alps, domestic animals are said to be very
 much affected by sorcery, a kind of sorcery that is in fact known to
 be widespread. Other, similar varieties will be discussed below in the
 350 Agnes is quoted as using this same invocation for making a hailstorm in 146C.
 351 Comparison with an earlier story of similar content suggests that what is meant by his being a
 hauler is that this explains why he kept on buying new horses (see 93A–B).
 352 126B.
 353 A mountain to the northwest.
380
 The Hammer of Witches 144C–D
 chapter on the remedies to be applied against acts of sorcery affecting
 domestic animals.354
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 14:
 Eymeric, Dir. 2.43
 Nider, Praec. 1. 11, 12]
 the method by which they stir up hailstorms and
 rainstorms and also make lightning strike
 humans and domestic animals
 Chapter Fifteen
 144D
 NEXT, that demons and their disciples can cause such acts of
 sorcery in stirring up lightning, hailstorms and rainstorms (the demons
 receiving the power from God and the demon’s disciples receiving His
 permission) is attested to by Holy Scripture in Job 1 and 2. There,
 immediately after receiving the power from God, the demon brought it
 about that the Sabaeans took away five hundred yoke of oxen and five
 hundred she-asses, that a fire then fell from heaven and consumed seven
 thousand camels, and finally that his seven sons and three daughters
 died when a strong wind made the house collapse (it was always many
 boys, that is, servants, who died, with the exception of one to announce
 the event). He also brought it about that the body of the holy man was
 stricken with a very bad sore and that his wife and three friends caused
 himgreat annoyance. Here, St. Thomas says in his note on Job [on 1.16],
 “It is necessary to confess that withGod’spermissionthedemonsareable
 to cause a disturbance of the air, to stir up winds, and to make fire fall
 from heaven. Although in taking up forms, bodily nature obeys neither
 the good nor the evil angels’ bidding but that of God alone, nonetheless
 bodily nature wasborntoobeyspiritualnatureinmovementinlocation.
 An indication of this is seen in man. By the mere command of the will,
 whichexistsinasubjectivesense355 inthesoul,thelimbsaresetinmotion
 to carry out the work arranged by the will. Therefore, whatever things
 can be done through mere movement in location can be done through
 natural virtue not only by the good but also by the evil, unless they are
 354 180D.
 355 See 49C with n. 356.
Part II 145A–B
 381
 divinely prohibited. Since wind and rain and other such disturbances 145A
 of the air can be made through the mere movement of vapors released
 fromtheearth andair, the natural virtue of a demon is sufficient to cause
 such events.”
 For the demons act as His torturers when God justly inflicts the evils
 that are done in the world, as our sins demand. Hence, the gloss on
 a passage in Psalm 104 (“He summoned a famine over the earth and
 beat down the entire basis for the bread”) says, “God permits these evils
 through the evil angels, who are put in charge of such things. Therefore,
 ‘Hesummonsfamine’signifiesthatHesummonstheangelputincharge
 of famine.”
 The notes made on the question356 of whether sorcerers always have
 to co-operate with demons in inflicting acts of sorcery could also be
 cited. There the three kinds of harm are noted, as is the way that
 the demons sometimes inflict various forms of harm without sorcerers.
 (The demonsprefer to harm humanswith the co-operation of sorcerers,
 since God is more angered by this and hence they are granted a greater
 ability to punish and to afflict.)
 Also relevant are the points raised by the Doctors in connection with
 Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 6 (“Whether it is fitting that a place has
 been assigned to evil angels in the misty air” [2.6.1.3]). The three con- 145B
 siderations relating to demons are nature, office and guilt, and just as
 the empyrean heaven357 corresponds to their nature and hell to their
 guilt, the misty air befits their job, since they are torturers and assistants
 in the punishment of the evil and the training of the good, as was dis
cussed above.358 The purpose of this is that they should not torment us
 excessively, which they would do if they lived in the lower world with
 us. Hence, they know how to attach active to passive elements both in
 the air and around the fiery sphere,359 on occasions when they are given
 permission by God, and cause fire to fall from heaven or lightning bolts
 to strike.
 ThereisastoryintheAntHillaboutsomeonewhowasunderarrest.360
 When asked by the judge how they stir up hail storms and rain storms
 356 Pt. 1,Q.2 (13D–20B).
 357 In the scholastic conception of the universe, “empyrean heaven” was the term for this outer
 sphere, which was taken to be the location of heaven.
 358 112B.
 359 In the version of scholastic cosmology underlying this passage, it is held that below the lowest
 “heavenly orb” (that of the moon), the four elements each had a sphere, that of fire being
 highest, which presumably means that the “misty air” which was the site of the demons’ prison
 was directly under the lunar orb, that is, it was at the highest level of the sublunar world.
 360 This story is told by Nider about the man named Stadlin mentioned above (87B).
382
 The Hammer of Witches 145B–D
 145C
 145D
 and whether it was easy for them to cause them, he answered, “It is easy
 for us to cause hailstorms, but we are not able to inflict harm at will”
 (note the protection of good angels). Then he added, “We can harm
 only those who are bereft of God’s help, and we cannot harm those who
 protect themselves with the Sign of the Cross. Our method is as follows.
 First, in the field we use certain words to beseech the Prince of All
 Demons to send one of his subordinates to strike the person indicated
 by us. Then, when a certain demon comes, we sacrifice a black rooster
 to him at a crossroads by casting it up into the air. Having accepted it,
 the demon obeys and immediately stirs up a breeze. Yet, he does not
 always cast the hailstorms and lightning bolts into the places intended
 by us, but does so according to the permission of the Living God.”
 There is a story in the same source about a certain instigator or rather
 heresiarch of sorcerers called Stafus.361 Residing in the territory of Berne
 and in adjacent places, he dared to boast publicly that whenever he
 wished, he had the ability to make himself like a mouse in the sight of
 his rivals and elude the hands of his mortal enemies, and that he had
 in fact quite often escaped from their hands in this way. When God’s
 justice wished to put an end to his evil, however, his enemies cautiously
 kept watch on him as he sat in a room by a window, and because of his
 crimeshediedawretcheddeathwhentheassassinsunexpectedlystabbed
 him with swords and spears. He did, however, leave behind a surviving
 disciple called Hoppo, who made the Stadlin referred to in Chapter
 Six362 the new master. These two knew how, whenever they wished, to
 bring dung, hay or grain or anything at all from a neighbor’s field to
 their own without anyone seeing,363 how to cause very strong hailstorms
 and harmful breezes as well as lightning bolts, how to cast toddlers
 walking along water in the sight of their parents into the water without
 anyone seeing, how to bring about barrenness in humans and domestic
 animals, how to reveal concealed things to others, how to cause harm in
 objects and bodies in any way at all, sometimes how to kill whomever
 they wished with a strike of lightning and to cause many other baneful
 things, where and when God’s justice permitted these things to happen.
 361 Thesource (Nider) frankly indicates an interesting fact omitted here. This confession was made
 after the fourth time that the torture known as the strappado was applied. The description of
 himas aheresiarch is an addition to Nider that is based on the conception of sorcery as a heresy
 (“heresiarch” being the technical term for the leader of a heresy).
 362 114C (also 87B and 145C).
 363 Anancientformoffolkmagic.Theuseofincantationstostealaneighbor’scropswasprohibited
 by the RomanLawoftheTwelveTables (an archaic law code of the fifth century bc), and there
 is evidence of a man being prosecuted for this in the second century bc.
Part II 145D–146A
 383
 It is goodideatoturntoeventsdiscoveredbyus.InthedioceseofCon
stance, twenty-eight German miles364 from Ravensburg in the direction
 of Salzburg, a very savage hailstorm was stirred up, and for a distance of
 one mile it crushed the produce, crops and vineyards to such an extent
 that two years later the harvest in the vineyards was hardly judged to be
 plentiful.ThenthematterwasreportedbythenotaryoftheInquisition, 146A
 the popular outcry necessitating an inquisition, since certain people, or
 rather virtually all the inhabitants of the town, deemed that these events
 had taken place through acts of sorcery. Hence, with the agreement of
 the chief magistrates, an inquisition in accordance with legal require
ments365 (concerning the Heresy of Sorceresses) was conducted by us
 for half a month.The trail led to two persons in particular (though the
 number of other suspects was not small). One was called Agnes the
 bathkeeper, the other Anna of Mindelheim.366 They were arrested and
 placed apart in different prisons, the one knowing absolutely nothing
 about the other. The following morning, the bathkeeper was exposed to
 questioning under the lightest torture in the presence of the notary by
 the ruler or leader of the citizens367 (a great zealot for the Faith called
 Gehler)368 and by others of the chief magistrates whose assistance he
 had enlisted. Without a doubt, she had on her person the sorcery of
 silence (which judges must always beware of), since she asserted her
 innocence during the first onslaught with the spirit not of a woman
 but of a man.369 Nonetheless, since it was the favor of God’s clemency
 364 A “commonGermanmile” was much larger than the corresponding English unit, equaling 4.6
 of the latter (and 7.42 kilometers). The distance of this storm from Ravensburg is thus 129 miles
 (208 kilometers).
 365 This specification about the lawful nature of the inquiry may reflect defensiveness about the
 claims that had been made that Institoris was acting ultra vires. It was these claims that led
 Institoris to ask Pope Innocent VIII to confirm his credentials as inquisitor, which the pope
 obligingly did in the Bull Summis desiderantes, and questions about procedural irregularities led
 to the collapse of the inquisition in Innsbruck.
 366 In the text, this woman is referred to several times as Agnes balneatrix, which literally means
 “Agnes the bathkeeper,” but she most likely had the last name Baderin, which is the feminine
 form of the German last name Bader, which is attested in Ravensburg from the beginning of
 the fourteenth century. By the usage of the early modern period, this could be a form of her
 father’s or husband’s name or an actual indication of her occupation, as the translation into
 Latin suggests. Bathkeepers had a reputation for immorality, however, and the name may have
 been translated to make the purported sorceress seem disreputable.
 367 I.e., B¨ urgermeister.
 368 Konrad Geldrich is attested as B¨ urgermeister for the year July 25, 1484–July 24, 1485.
 369 Attheendoftheirletter,theburgermastersandcitycouncilinformSigmundofsomeprocedural
 practices that the inquisitor had taught them. In addition to instructing that the accused were
 not to be allowed to touch the ground (see 203C) and were to have their hair cut off (see 214C),
 he stated “also that there was this notable fact: if one questions (tortures) them and they don’t
 cry, they are such witches or sorceresses.” For the theory behind this, see 213C–D.
146B
 384
 The Hammer of Witches 146B–C
 that so great a crime should not pass unpunished, all of a sudden, when
 she wasset free from her chains (though still in the torture chamber), she
 freely370 revealed all the crimes that she had committed. She was asked
 by the notary about the articles371 from the testimony of the witnesses
 about the acts of sorcery inflicted on humans and domestic animals (on
 this basis, the suspicion that she was a sorceress had been made vio
lent),372 and although no witness had given testimony against her about
 the renunciation of the Faith and the commission of carnal filthiness
 with an incubus demon (such ceremonies being the closest secret of
 the sect), nonetheless, after she had pleaded guilty following the list
ing of the instances of harm that had been inflicted on humans and
 domestic animals, she made a public confession of all the other things,
 when interrogated about the renunciation of the Faith and diabolical
 f
 ilthy acts committed with the incubus demon. She claimed that for
 more than eighteen years she had submitted sexually to that incubus in
 addition to renouncing the Faith in every way. After these proceedings
 were completed, she was asked whether she knew anything about the
 events connectedwiththehailstormmentionedabove,andsheanswered
 146C
 that she did.373 When asked by what method and how, she answered,
 “I was in my house and at noon the demon summoned me, telling me
 to take myself to the open country”– the “Plain of Kuppel,” which
 is its name374– “and to bring a little water with me. When I asked
 what work he wished to perform with the water, he answered that he
 wished to make rain. So as I passed through the city gate, I found the
 demon standing under a tree.” When asked by the judge under which
 tree, she answered, “Under the one opposite that tower,” pointing it out,
 and when asked what she had done under the tree, she answered, “The
 demon told me to dig a small hole and pour the water into it.” When
 asked whether they had sat together, she answered, “While I sat, the
 demon stood.” When then asked with what words or by what methods
 she had stirred the water, she answered, “I stirred it with my finger, but
 370 She knew full well that failure to confess would simply result in further torture.
 371 I.e., specific individual accusations.
 372 For the definition of this, see 222B–C.
 373 From here on, the anecdote gives the appearance of a transcript of the interrogation (see
 n. 379). It is doubtful that Institoris would have had with him the actual records, which were
 kept in the Ravensburg archives (see end of the next paragraph; such was also the case with
 the proceedings in Innsbruck: 95A), and thus the version presented here is a “reconstruction”
 designed to give the appearance of a “spontaneous” confession. Suspicion of “prompting” from
 the interrogators is not unwarranted.
 374 “Kuppel” is the old term for the fields north of Ravensburg.
Part II 146C–147A
 385
 in the nameofthat devil and all the other demons.”375 The judge in turn
 asked, “What happened with the water?” She answered, “It disappeared,
 and the Devil took it up into the air.” When then asked whether she had
 had an associate, she answered, “Opposite under such-and-such tree I
 hadthe other sorceress under arrest as my associate” (she named Anna of
 Mindelheim). “What she did, I don’t know.” Finally, when asked about
 the interval of timebetweenthewaterbeingraisedupandthehailstorm, 146D
 she answered, “The delay lasted until I arrived at home.”
 Here is another wondrous event. The next day, the other one was also
 exposed to questioning under the lightest torture (being raised barely
 an inch off the ground),376 and when set free, she revealed all the details
 mentioned above. There was not the least discrepancy with what the
 f
 irst had confessed, in the location (claiming that she had been under
 such-and-such a tree and the other underanothertree), or in the time (at
 noon),orinthemethod(movingwaterputintoaholeinthenameofthe
 Devil and all the demons), or in the interval of time (claiming that after
 the Devil hadtakenthewaterandraiseditup,thehailstorm ensuedafter
 her return home). With that, they were burned to ashes on the third
 day.377 Being contrite and having confessed, the bathkeeper earnestly
 commended herself to God, claiming that she was eager to die in order
 to escape the Devil’s injuries and holding the Cross in the embrace of her
 arms. Theother, however, rejected the Cross.378 She had had the incubus
 demon for more than twenty years in addition to renouncing the Faith,
 and she surpassed the other in many acts of sorcery inflicted on humans,
 domestic animals and the fruits of the earth, as the protocol deposited 147A
 in the town hall shows.379 Let these facts suffice, though actually the
 number of events that could be cited about the infliction of such acts of
 sorcery is virtually countless.
 375 The same invocation was used by Agnes for bewitching animals in 144A.
 376 Of course, the distance by which one is raised off the ground has nothing to do with the extent
 of the pressure on the shoulders.
 377 That is, Agnes confessed on the first day, Anna on the second, and the burnings were carried
 out on the following day. Justice delayed is, as the saying goes, justice denied.
 378 The phenomenon whereby those who have been tortured into confessing to crimes they did
 not commit actively accept the guilt implicit in the confession and behave accordingly is
 psychologically interesting (cf. the behavior of Bukharin, Kamenev and the rest during the
 Soviet show trials of the 1930s). Perhaps certain people find some sort of emotional “release”
 in “going along with the show.” Presumably, Agnes received some sort of sympathy from her
 tormentorsasaresultofher“contrition.”AnnaofMindelheim,ontheotherhand,wasevidently
 made of sterner stuff.
 379 A protocol is also mentioned in the burgermasters’ letter, but it is not preserved; see 95A for a
 reference to a similar protocol preserved in Brixen.
386
 The Hammer of Witches 147A–B
 As for lightning strikes, the fact that lightning bolts have very often
 consumed humans either alone or along with wild beasts or with houses
 and granaries seems to have a more hidden and uncertain cause, since
 they often take place otherwise, that is, without the co-operation of
 the sorceresses. Nonetheless, it has been found on the basis of their
 unprompted confessions that sorceresses have caused them. (In addition
 to eventsanddeedsdiscussedabove,variousotheronesconcerninglight
ing could be cited.) Reason also lends its support, since they can cause
 lightning bolts as easily as they can hailstorms. Hence, all uncertainty is
 removed.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Ch. 15:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.4]
 the three methods by which men and not women
 are found to be tainted with acts of sorcery
 (in three chapters,380 the first concerning
 archer sorcerers)
 147B
 THEfinal(for the present time) kind of sorcery is that in which
 menaretainted. This consists of three varieties. First, the severityof the
 crime as manifested in archer sorcerers should be noted with reference
 to seven different horrible crimes. First, on the more holy day of the
 Lord’s Passion, that is, on the Friday381 of Parasceve,382 as it is called,
 they shoot at the most holy image of the Crucifix with an arrow during
 the solemn rites of the Mass as if shooting at a target. What cruelty and
 insult to the Savior! Second, it is a matter of doubt whether they must
 enter into an agreement with the demon to commit apostasy by word
 in addition to apostasy by work. In any case, by whichever method this
 takes place, a Christian can inflict no greater insult on the Faith, since it
 is certain that if an infidel committed similar crimes, they would be of
 no effectiveness,383 and in no other work can he give so much pleasure
 to the Adversary of Salvation.384 Therefore, such wretches ought rather
 380 I.e., Chs. 16–18 of Q. 1, as laid out in 86B and 91C.
 381 I.e., Good Friday.
 382 I.e., the last week of Lent.
 383 An “infidel” literally signifies someone lacking faith, and hence it would seem that since this
 procedure involves an element of the Christian faith, only Christians have access to its magical
 powers, even in terms of abusing them.
 384 I.e., the devil.
Part II 147B–D
 387
 to consider the truth and effectiveness of the Catholic Faith. This is also
 the reason why it is just for God to permit crimes of this kind. Third,
 they have to make three or four bull’s eyes in so many shots, and as
 a consequence they will be able to kill the same number of men on a
 given day. Fourth, they are made certain of the foregoing by the demons,
 but they must first clearly see the man to be killed with bodily vision,
 and when they turn the will of their heart entirely to killing him, then 147C
 whatever the place in which this man is enclosed, he will not be able
 to protect himself from being struck with the arrow once it is released
 and the Devil sticks it in him. Fifth, he can shoot an arrow with such
 accuracy that in a situation where they wish to knock a penny from
 the head with an arrow without harming that head, they are able to
 achieve this effect. The same is the case with a gun, however big. Sixth,
 to achieve these effects, they mustrendersuchhomagetotheDevilalong
 with the damnation of their body and soul.385
 Let us bring forward a few events relating to these crimes. About sixty
 years ago, a certain prince on the Rhine (called Longbeard because he
 grew a beard)386 annexed certain Imperial territories and was besieging a
 certain castle called Lendelbrunn, because the inhabitants would make
 plunderingraidsfromit.Inhisretinuehehadasorcererofthiskindcalled
 Puncker,whoharriedtheinhabitantssomuchthatwithoneexceptionhe
 killed them all with arrows one after the other. The method he followed
 was that wherever the one whom he had seen turned, he would wound
 him fatally by shooting arrows. He had three such shots in his power on
 a given day, because he had driven three arrows into the image of the 147D
 Savior. (As for why the Devil chose the number three instead of all the
 others, it can be guessed that he does this to renounce the Most Holy
 Trinity.) After these three shots had been made, he would just shoot
 arrows at the target the way the other archers did. During the night
time, one of the inhabitants shouted as a joke to Puncker, “Won’t you
 leave the circle hanging on the gate unharmed?” and he responded from
 outside, “No. I’ll take it away on the day that the castle is captured.”387 It
 then happened that he fulfilled the very thing that he had foretold. After
 he killed everyone with the one exception, as has already been said, the
 385 The seventh crime appears below in 148C.
 386 Louis III of the Palatinate (ruled 1410–1436).
 387 The nature of this “circle” is not specified. It may be an apotropaic device like the boughs
 twisted by peasant women into a “circle” and placed over barn doors to protect the animals
 kept within against sorcery (see 179D), which would give more point to the story, but perhaps
 all that is meant is a representation of the coat of arms of the place (or of some owner of it).
388
 The Hammer of Witches 147D–148B
 castle was captured and he hung the circle on his house in Rohrbach388
 in the diocese of Worms, where it can be seen hanging in this way down
 to the present day. Afterwards, peasants to whomhewasbeingextremely
 unpleasant killed him one evening with their digging implements, and
 he died in his sins.
 148A
 148B
 It is also said of this man that when one of the noblemen wished to
 make a test of his skill, he set his own little son as a target for Punker.
 He put a penny on top of the boy’s cap as the bull’s eye and told him
 to remove the penny from the cap with an arrow. The sorcerer claimed
 that while he would do this, it would be difficult, and he preferred not
 to in order not to be led astray by the Devil to his own destruction.
 Nonetheless, he was persuaded by the words of the prince, and after
 putting one arrow on his collar by his neck,389 he placed another on his
 crossbow and knocked the penny from the boy’s cap without any harm.
 When the nobleman saw this, he asked the sorcerer why he had placed
 an arrow on his collar. To this he answered, “If I had killed the child
 through the Devil’s deception, I would immediately have pierced you
 through with the other arrow, so that I would have avenged my death
 all the same.”
 Although God’s permission allows evils of this kind to happen to test
 and chastise the faithful, conversely, the Savior’s mercy certainly works
 greater miracles to strengthen and glorify the Faith. In the diocese of
 Constance near the castle Hohenzorn390 and a convent of nuns391 can
 be seen a church that has been reconstructed, and in this church can
 be seen one of these images of the Savior, along with an arrow that
 has been stuck into it and blood that has been shed. The truth of this
 miracle was revealed in the following manner. Some wretch wished
 to be made certain of killing others by the Devil by the previously
 described procedure concerning the three or four crossbow shots, and at
 a crossroads he shot at an image of the Crucifix with an arrow, piercing
 it in the way that can still be seen down to the present day. When the
 miraculous gore beganpouringout,thewretchwasstrickeninhisability
 to walk through divine virtue and fixed in place. When he was asked
 by a passer-by why he was standing there without moving, the wretch
 388 There are a number of towns by this name, but the one directly south of Heidelberg seems the
 most likely candidate.
 389 Presumably, what is meant is that he held the second arrow in place under his chin, which
 would keep it in readiness for immediate use while leaving his hands free to shoot the first one.
 In that case, perhaps “collar” signifies the metal ring at the neck of a breastplate.
 390 I.e., Hohenzollern.
 391 A convent of Dominican nuns called Stetten.
Part II 148B–D
 389
 would shake his head but could give no answer, trembling in the arms
 and hands with which he had been holding the crossbow and in his
 entire body. Looking around this way and that, the other man saw the
 Image392 of the Crucifix and perceived the arrow stuck into it and the
 blood that had been shed. He then said, “You awful wretch, you didn’t
 shoot the Image of Our Lord, did you?” Calling others, he said, “Watch
 out that he doesn’t run away.” Since the archer could not move from the
 spot, as has already been stated, the other man ran to the castle and told
 what had happened. They quickly ran down and found the wretch still
 stuck in the same place. After he was asked about the circumstances and
 confessed the crime, he was removed from the place as a result of contact
 with public justice393 and received a very wretched death, a worthy form
 of revenge in light of his crimes.
 But, unfortunately (this is a horrifying thought), not even such events
 scare human perversity so that it will refrain from similar crimes. In the 148C
 courts of noblemeneverywhere, it is said, such men are supported, being
 allowed to boast and preen about their crimes in public, which results in
 contempt for the Faith and in serious offense to God’s majesty. Hence,
 suchmenandthosewhoharborthemshouldeverywherebejudgedtobe
 protectors and abettors not merely of heretics but of apostates from the
 Faith, and should be punished with the penalties written below. (This
 is the seventh394 crime.)
 First, they are excommunicate under the law, and abetting clerics are
 removed from and deprived of every office and benefice, which will be
 restored to them only by a specific indulgence395 of the Holy See. Also,
 if these harborers obstinately persist in excommunication for a year
 after their status has been made public, they are to be condemned as
 heretics.
 The specifics are demonstrated as follows. The Chapter “Ut inqui
sitionis” § “Prohibemus”(Liber Sextus) discusses not impeding directly
 or indirectly the procedure or judgment of the ordinaries396 responsible
 for them and inquisitors in cases concerning the Faith, and mention is
 made there of inflicting the penalty mentioned above after a year. First,
 it says, “We quite strictly prohibit powers, temporal lords and rulers, and
 their officials” and so on– if someone wants to, let him read through 148D
 392 “Image” is a technical term for a religious portrayal in an official context.
 393 Presumably meaning that otherwise he could not have been moved.
 394 Of those laid out in 147B–C.
 395 I.e., a formal grant of dispensation from some unfavorable rule or ruling.
 396 An “ordinary” is the ecclesiastical judge responsible for a person, and the local bishop normally
 carried out this function.
390
 The Hammer of Witches 148D–149A
 the chapter– and then it says that the sorcerers together with their
 harborers should be excommunicate under the law. Later, these heretic
 sorcerers are treated in the beginning of Chapter “Ad abolendam” and
 in the first Chapter “Excommunicamus” and especially and more briefly
 in the second Chapter “Excommunicamus” (“Heretics”), where it says,
 “We have excommunicated and anathematized all heretics, Cathars,397
 Paterines”398– and below: “and others, whatever the names under which
 they are listed . . . ” (note the reference to “whatever names”).
 149A
 Believers, harborers and the others mentionedabovearementionedin
 the first Chapter “Excommunicamus” §“Credentes,” where it says, “Also,
 believers, harborers, defenders and abettors of these people we decree to
 be subject to excommunication...”. The second chapter “Excommuni
camus” mentions further penalties that they, along with the clerics, incur
 within a year, and there it says, “Receivers, abettors and defenders we
 decree to be subject to excommunication, so that if, after any of them is
 marked with excommunication, he disdains to make satisfaction within
 a year, he should thenceforth be infamous,399 and should not be admit
ted to public offices or councils, or to the selection of men for offices of
 this kind, or to the giving of testimony. Let them also be debarred from
 wills, so that they should neither have the free ability to make a will nor
 succeed to an inheritance. In addition, let no one be forced to respond
 to himconcerning any business whatsoever; if a judge, let his sentencing
 not be upheld, and let no cases be brought before him for hearing; if
 a lawyer, let his advocacy be in no way admitted; if a notary, let the
 documents that he has drawn up be of nosignificance, and instead these
 should be condemned along with their condemned author. We ordain
 that the same practice be followed in comparable situations. If he is a
 cleric, let him be removed from every office and benefice, so that the
 punishment will be more severe in the case of one in whom the guilt is
 greater. If any disdain to shun such people after they have been marked
 out by the Church, let them be stricken with a sentence of excommu
nication until they make suitable satisfaction. Clerics should certainly
 not offer the Sacraments of the Church to baneful people of this kind or
 presume to grant them Christian burial or accept their alms or offerings;
 otherwise, let them be deprived of their office and not be restored to it
 in any way without a specific indulgence of the Apostolic See.”
 397 I.e., adherents of the dualist heresy that became common in southern France in the twelfth
 century.
 398 This was a term for the Waldensians.
 399 “Infamy” is a technical term derived from Roman Law that signifies various legal disabilities.
Part II 149B–C
 391
 There are also very many other penalties concerning the people 149B
 mentioned above, even if they do not persist obstinately for a year.
 These concern their children and grandchildren, who can be deprived
 of or declared as deprived of all ecclesiastical appointments, delegated
 appointments,400 honors and benefices and all public offices whatso
ever according to Chapter “Ut commisi” §“Privandi” (Liber Sextus,
 “Heretics”). “If they are unrepentant” is understood, as is established
 in Chapter “Statutum Felicis” (same book and title). It is also under
stood that their sons down to the second generation are also deprived
 of every ecclesiastical benefice and public office, as established in Chap
ter “Quicumque” §“Heretici” (same book). “Those who have descended
 through the father’s and not the mother’s line” is to be understood, and
 so is “concerning the unrepentant,” as is established in the cited chapter.
 Also, that the benefit of appealing to and invoking a higher authority
 is forbidden to them (supply “their believers, harborers, defenders and
 abettors”) is made clear in Chapter “Ut inquisitionis” (same book). Here,
 however, the Archdeacon understands (on the same chapter) that while
 they are unable to do so after they have been declared by sentence to be
 such, before sentence they can appeal if they are oppressed or unduly
 harassed in any regards.
 Many other passages could be cited, but let these suffice. For a fuller 149C
 understanding of the foregoing certain things should be discussed. First,
 what if, in the manner of the events mentioned above, a prince or tem
poral power takes along with him a sorcerer of this kind in order to
 devastate some castle and with his assistance represses the tyranny of evil
 men? Should the whole army be judged to be abettors and harborers of
 such people and punished with the penalties mentioned above? It seems
 that the answer should be that the strictness of justice should be moder
ated on account of the large numbers (Dist. 40 “Constitueretur”).401 The
 principal agent and his advisers and councilors who abet such things are
 by all means bound under the law by the aforementioned penalties in a
 situation where, after having been admonished by ordinaries responsible
 for them, they do not cease, since they are now judged to be harborers
 and abettors. As for the rest of the army, since such things are done
 without their advice and abetting and they are ready to risk their bodies
 400 I.e., situations (common in the Middle Ages) where the incumbent of a benefice keeps the
 associated income and hires someone else to perform the liturgical duties for him (naturally for
 a sum less than the income).
 401 The same principle and canon (with the same error in citation) are cited in a different context
 earlier (12A). Since this principle does not appear in the present context in Eymeric, it is
 presumably to be attributed to the author, who must have been fond of the sentiment.
392
 The Hammer of Witches 149C–150A
 149D
 150A
 in defense of the commonwealth, even if they are perhaps complacent
 about the sorcerers with respect to their deeds, they nonetheless escape
 the censure consisting of excommunication. They must, however, admit
 such guilt in their confessions, and once the confessor has received from
 them an assurance that they will always abhor all such deeds, he should
 absolve them.402 They should then banish such sorcerers from their
 borders to the best of their abilities.
 If it is asked from whom those in charge can receive absolution if
 they come to their senses, from the ordinaries responsible for them or
 from inquisitors, it is answered that they certainly can receive absolution
 from both the ordinaries and inquisitors if they come to their senses.403
 This is stated in the beginning of Chapter “Ut officium”(Liber Sextus,
 “Heretics”), where it says, “That the office,” and below, “Against heretics
 and their believers, haborers, abettors and defenders, and also against
 those with a bad reputation concerning heresy or those suspected of it
 you should proceed according to the sanctions in the Canon, setting
 fear of humans after the fear of God. If one of these wishes to abjure the
 stain of heresy and to return to the Unity of the Church, you should
 grant the benefit of absolution according to the rule of the Church.”
 If the question of when a prince or other ruler will be said to come to
 his senses is urgently asked, the response is that he does so when he turns
 over the sorcerer for punishment for the injury inflicted on the Creator.
 Hence, that the prince should merely expel him from his territory is not
 the due penalty for a sorcerer (a heretic manifestly caught in heretical
 depravity, as will be explained below).404 The prince should also grieve
 at his past actions and firmly resolve not to abet such people in future,
 as befits a Catholic prince.
 If it is asked to whom the sorcerer is to be turned over and by what
 course of procedure he should be punished and whether he should be
 judged as caught manifestly in heresy, as for the first, in the beginning of
 Part Three405 therewillbeatreatmentofthedifficultyregardingwhether
 punishing them is the role only of the secular and not the ecclesiastical
 judge. It is made clear by Chapter “Ut inquisitionis” §“Prohibemus”
 402 Whatis meant here is a conditional absolution (see n. 564) based on the proviso that the person
 confessing promises not to repeat his misbehavior in the future.
 403 This paragraph is adapted from Eymeric Directorium Inquisitorum 3.92, which actually deals
 with the question of whether the bishop and inquisitor are allowed to absolve of excommuni
cation someone who has been manifestly caught in heretical depravity and later repented and
 made an abjuration, and not the question of which of them may grant such absolution.
 404 150B–D.
 405 Introductory “difficulty” (184B–193C).
Part II 150A–B
 393
 (Liber Sextus) that secular judges are forbidden to pass judgment on the
 crime of heresy without the permission of the bishops or inquisitors, or
 at least of one of them. Thereason given there does not seemrelevant for
 sorcerers, however. It says that they ought not to pass judgment because
 the crime of heresy is purely ecclesiastical, but the crime of sorcerers does
 not seem to be purely ecclesiastical but also civil because of the secular
 losses. Bethatasitmay(therewillbeanexplanationbelow),whileitisthe
 role of the ecclesiastical judge to investigate and pass judgment, it is still
 the role of the secular judge to execute sentence and to punish, as is
 explained in Liber Extra,“Heretics,” Chapter “Ad abolendam,”Chapter 150B
 “Vergentis, andChapter“Excommunicamus”(bothofthem).Hence,even
 if the secular judge turns over such a person to the bishop for judgment,
 he is still able to punish him by himself after the convict is handed
 over (abandoned)406 to him by the ordinary. With the agreement of the
 bishop, the secular judge can in fact carry out both tasks, that is, pass
 judgment and punish.
 It is not valid if it is said that such sorcerers are not heretics but
 apostates, because each category concerns the Faith, and just as heretics
 merelydoubttheFaith(inwholeorpart),sotoodotheapostatesorcerers.
 Reason itself also dictates this conclusion. Since it is a more severe crime
 to corrupt the Faith, through which the soul lives, than to counterfeit
 the currency, through which secular life is assisted, then if it is just for
 counterfeiters or other criminals407 to be immediately handed over for
 death at the hands of the secular powers, it is that much more just
 for these heretics and apostates to be killed immediately upon their
 conviction.408
 Hence, these facts provide the answer to the second question (by
 which course of procedure and by whom he should be punished), but in
 Part Threeofthework,whichconcernsthemethodsofpassingsentence,
 there will be a clearer treatment of how someone manifestly caught in
 heresy should be sentenced (Methods Eight409 and Twelve410 and the
 406 This is the literal sense of the term usually translated into English with the word “relax,” which
 signifies the procedure whereby someone condemned by an ecclesiastical court is turned over
 to the “secular arm” for punishment. For the distinction between “abandon” and “hand over,”
 see Pt. iii n. 69.
 407 Here is the usual Latin play on words, the word malefactor (“evil-doer”) clearly being associated
 with sorcery (maleficium or “act of evil-doing”).
 408 This sentence is quoted almost verbatim (apostates are not mentioned in the original) from
 Aquinas’s justification of the practice of executing heretics (Summa 2/2.11.3.Co.). (Presumably,
 this passage of the Saintly Doctor was well known to Dominican inquisitors.)
 409 236B–237B.
 410 242D–245A.
150C
 394
 The Hammer of Witches 150C–D
 doubtful point as to whether he should still be killed if he repents).411
 In fact, if he is a simple heretic who has relapsed, however much he
 repents, he is to be killed (Chapter “Ad abolendam” cited above). This is
 reasonable according to Thomas [Summa 2/2.11.4.Co.], since provision
 is thereby made for the common good, because if returning heretics
 were often welcomed back, so that they were preserved in life and other
 secular goods, this could be prejudicial to the salvation of others on two
 grounds. If they relapsed, they would infect others, and if they escaped
 without penalty, others would be more secure in relapsing into heresy.
 From their relapse it is presumed that they lack constancy in the Faith,
 and for this reason it is just for the heretic to be killed. Hence, it should
 also be said at this point that if the mere suspicion of inconstancy causes
 the ecclesiastical judge to turn someone who has relapsed over to the
 secular courtforkilling,afortiori, if heisunwillingtoturnoveranyapos
tate or sorceress because of her repentance or conversion, he nonetheless
 has to abandon such a person and cause no impediment when the sec
ular judge wishes to kill the sorcerer according to the laws, because of
 the secular losses. First, however, the ecclesiastical judge has to absolve
 150D
 the repentant sorcerer of the excommunication that he incurs because
 of the Heresy of Sorceresses (a heretic is also excommunicate accord
ing to both Chapters “Excommunicamus”), and to receive him into the
 embrace of the Church for the salvation of his spirit, as is said in 11,Q.3,
 “Audi.” Other reasons are given below in Question One of Part One.
 Let these statements suffice for the present. The curates of souls
 should, however, realize how harsh andstrict an accounting is demanded
 of them by the Fearsome Judge.412 In fact, the harshest judgment is
 reserved for those who are in charge if they allow such people to live,
 which results in insult to the Creator.
 Adiscussionofthetwootherkindsofsorcerersfollows.Tothiskindof
 sorcery are ascribed those who know how to enchant any weapons with
 incantations and sacrilegious chants, so that these weapons cannot harm
 them in any way and hence the sorcerers cannot even be wounded.413
 411 Apparently the final paragraph of 245A.
 412 I.e., God.
 413 Note that “enchanter,” incantator (which is actually used below in 151B), the term implied in
 the verb incantare and the noun incantatio used here, is the term that Institoris employs in the
 Nuremberg Handbook for practitioners of magic (Zauberer) who are not involved in the Heresy
 of Sorceresses. This category and the next one are implicitly omitted in the Handbook from
 inclusion among those guilty of the Heresy of Sorceresses, which suggests that by the time he
 wrote the Handbook Institoris had cleared up the logic of why archer sorcerers were included
 at all.
Part II 150D–151B
 395
 They are divided into different varieties. There are some who resem
ble the archer sorcerers already discussed in that the practices that they
 learn also concern the image of the crucifix and the outrage inflicted on
 it. For example, a man who wishes to have the ability not to be harmed
 in the head by any sword or blow has to take off the head of the image,
 or if in the neck, he takes off the neck, or if in the arm, he takes off or 151A
 damages the arm, and so on. Sometimes, they damage it above or below
 the waist, sometimes they do so entirely. As an indication of this, among
 ten images placed at a crossroads or in the fields, scarcely one is found
 intact.
 Therearesomewhocarryaroundwiththemcertainhandbooks,while
 others produce such effects with Holy Words or unknown ones.414 It is
 surmised that the following difference exists between the groups. The
 f
 irst resembles the sorcerer archers in insulting the Faith with reference to
 disgracing theimageoftheSaviorandhenceshouldbeconsideredastrue
 apostatesandjudgedtobesuchwhentheyarecaught.Unlikethearchers,
 however, they lack the intention of harming someone else, inasmuch as
 it seems that the purpose is to protect their own body above or below
 the belt or even the entire body. Therefore, when they are convicted
 as sorcerers and repent, they are to be judged to be repentant and not
 relapsed heretics and are to be sentenced to repentance according to
 MethodEight415 (including an abjuration and imprisonment), as will be
 explained in Part Three of the work.416
 Thesecondgroupconsistsofthosewhoendeavortoenchantweapons
 withchantsandtowalkoverweaponswithbarefeetandtofollowsimilar
 practices (according to Isidore [Etymologies 8.9.15], those who practice
 someart with wordsarecalled enchanters).417 In this instance, a distinc- 151B
 tion should be made. On the one hand, enchantments are sometimes
 performed over sick people with Holy Words or written chants, and
 such enchantments can be performed lawfully, so long as seven condi
tions are maintained, as will be explained below418 on the topic of the
 methodsofhealing sick people affected by sorcery. On the other hand, if
 enchantments are performed over weapons with certain words, or when
 chants of this sort are carried around in written form, judges should note
 414 These two groups are listed as the second and third topics of this chapter in the main Table
 of Contents (4C), and presumably represent the second and third “chapters” referred to in the
 heading of the present chapter (147A) and in the introductory passages in 86B and 91C.
 415 236B–237B
 416 Q. 27 (236B–238A).
 417 See n. 413.
 418 172B–C.
396
 The Hammer of Witches 151B–D
 151C
 151D
 that if there are unknown names in them as well as characters and other
 sorts of signing apart from the Sign of the Cross, then these elements are
 to be completely rejected and people are to be enjoined in a pious way
 not to believe in them. If they are unwilling to stop, then they should
 be judged to be lightly suspected (about such people there will be an
 explanation below on the topic of Method Two419 of passing sentence).
 For in that case there is a suspicion of heretical depravity. In fact, such
 things have to take place through the work and help of demons, and
 anyone who uses their assistance is judged an apostate from the Faith, as
 was explained above.420 These people should be dealt with more mildly
 than are archer sorcerers, however, because of their ignorance and the
 Graceofcorrection. Itisseentobeaverycommonpracticeamongmen
at-arms and merchants to carry around with them chants like this and
 blessings that seem to have the appearance of an enchantment. Hence, it
 is a goodideatostampthispractice out altogether, either in the forum of
 penance through the confessor or in the legal forum through the eccle
siastical judge.421 For the unknown words and signed characters mean
 that a tacit agreement is entered into with a demon, and the demon
 secretly intervenes and brings about the things requested in order to
 eventually entice the man to worse crimes. Hence, in the legal forum,
 such a person ought to make an abjuration according to Method Two422
 of passing sentence, and in the forum of the conscience the confessor
 ought to examine the chants, and if the person is unwilling to abandon
 them altogether, he should still blot out the unknown names and char
acters and leave the rest, like words from Gospels and the Signs of the
 Cross.
 About all these topics, and especially the sorcerer archers, it should
 be noted that the question of whether they should be judged as having
 been caught manifestly in heretical depravity was discussed above and
 that this topic was treated even earlier in Question One423 of Part One.
 There it was in fact explained that they should be. As Bernard says in the
 Ordinary Gloss on the word “Deprehensi,” in Chapter “Ad abolendam”
 §“Praesenti,” by law someone is considered to be manifestly caught
 in heretical depravity in three ways: through the evidence of fact, as
 in straightforward heresy when they preach heresy (Pandect, “Rite of
 419 Actually Method 4 (228D–230A).
 420 Perhaps 143A.
 421 The confessional and a formal legal proceeding (in an ecclesiastical court) are considered dif
fering “forums” in which the penalty for misdeeds is to be determined.
 422 Again Method 4 (228D–230A) is meant.
 423 7A–13D.
Part II 151D–152A
 397
 Marriage,” “Palam” §“Ultio”); through lawful proof by witnesses; or
 from his own confession. Also relevant is Bernard’s gloss on the second
 Chapter “Excommunicamus” on the line “Deprehensi publice”: “so that it
 will be well known to them too that they have been condemned.” He
 seems to make the same point on Chapter “Super quibusdam”(Extra,
 “Significance of Words”), as was explained in Question One424 of Part
 One of this work. From these citations it is clear that because of their
 manifest works, which could happen only through the virtue of the
 Devil, sorcerer archers as well as those who enchant weapons should
 be considered as manifestly caught in heretical depravity through some
 explicit pact entered into with a demon.
 Second, it is also clear that their abettors, harborers and defenders,
 being manifestly such,425 should be considered as such, and that they
 are manifestly subject to the penalties mentioned above, so that now
 they are not judged to be harborers in a doubtful way or judged to
 be suspected with a light, heavy or violent suspicion, as many others
 are.
 Hence, they always commit the most severe sin against the Faith 152A
 and always are stricken by God with an evil death. As the story goes, a
 certain prince was abetting similar sorcerers and in addition was unduly
 harassing a certain city in connection with certain affairs. When he
 was criticized for this by one of his courtiers, in disregard of all fear
 of God, he answered, “May God grant that I die in this spot if they
 are being unjustly harassed by me.” Upon these words the vengeance
 of God immediately followed, and he breathed his last with a sudden
 death. This was vengeance not so much for the unjust harassment as for
 the abetting of heresy.
 Third, it is also clear that when any prelates and curates do not, to the
 best of their abilities, oppose crimes of this kind and their instigators and
 abettors, they can also be judged as manifest abettors and are manifestly
 subject to the penalties mentioned above.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Chs. 16–18:
 Aq., Summa 2/2.11.3
 Eymeric, Dir. 2.47; 3.89, 92, 113, 114, 115, 117]
 424 11D–12A.
 425 I.e., heretics.
The Hammer of Witches 152A–C
 398
 there follows basic division two of the present
 part two, which concerns the methods of
 removing and curing acts of sorcery, with an
 introductory difficulty
 152B
 152C
 [TT] WHETHER it is lawful to remove acts of sorcery through
 other acts of sorcery or through other unlawful means.
 [AG 1] It is argued that it is not because it is not lawful to make
 use of the help of demons, as was explained above426 and is determined
 by the Doctors in common in the Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.
 2, Dist. 7, on the grounds that this is apostasy from the Faith. Indeed,
 that an act of sorcery cannot be broken without the help of demons is
 proven on the grounds that it is broken either by the contrivance of the
 artifice of man or the Devil or by the power of God. The first is not the
 case because a lower power cannot infringe upon a higher one, since it
 can do nothing surpassing its own virtue. It is also not divine power,
 because this would be a miraculous work and God worksmiracles at His
 own discretion and not at the insistence of humans. For instance, when
 His mother asked Christ to provide wine miraculously, this needed the
 miracle of transformation, as the Doctors propound, and this is why He
 replied, “What is it to you and me, woman?” [John 2:4], that is, “What
 do we have in common in the miraculous work.”427
 [AG 2] It is also evident that the possessed are very seldom freed,
 however much they beg for the help of God and the assistance of the
 Saints. Therefore, they can be freed only with the help of devils, though
 it is not lawful to seek this.
 [AG 3] Also, what is commonly tolerated becomes general practice,
 even if it is unlawful, and it is common practice for those affected by
 sorcery to rushtosuperstitious womenfolk, bywhomtheyareveryoften
 freed and not by priests or exorcists. Therefore, practice shows that acts
 of sorcery are broken with the help of demons. Since it is unlawful to
 seek ademon’shelp,however,whatislawfulisnottobreakactsofsorcery
 but to endure them with patience.
 [AG4]Also, according to Thomas and Bonaventure in the Commen
tary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 34 [Sent. 4.34.1.3], which treats the
 impediment caused by sorcery, an act of sorcery can be so permanent
 that it can have no human remedy because, if it has one, this is not
 426 A similarly vague reference appears in 151B; perhaps the discussion in mind is the one in 143A.
 427 This is a misunderstanding of the passage (typical of medieval exegesis, which without reference
 to the context interpreted biblical passages as illustrative of notions irrelevant to the text under
 discussion). Jesus’ words meant, “What difference does the lack of wine make to you and me?”
Part II 152C–153A
 399
 known to or lawful for any human. With these words they let it be
 understood that it is like an incurable and permanently present illness.
 Then, they add that although God could offer a remedy by compelling
 the demon andthe demoncould dosobystopping, and the man would
 be healed, nonetheless, the healing will not be human. Therefore, unless
 God ends it by Himself, it is not lawful to seek an end to it in any way
 at all.
 [AG 5] Also, they say in the same distinction and question that it is
 also unlawful to apply a remedy through another act of sorcery. Hence,
 they say that even if a remedy could be applied through another act
 of sorcery, although the sorcery would be removed, it would still be
 considered permanent, because it is in no way lawful to invoke the help
 of a demon through sorcery.
 [AG 6] Also, the exorcisms of the Church are not always potent in 152D
 repressing demons in terms of all bodily harassments (the judgment
 of God dictates this), but they are always potent against those forms
 of possession by demons for which they were originally instituted, like
 people under demonic assault or children needing exorcizing.
 [AG 7] Also, it is not necessarily the case that if the Devil is granted
 power over someonebecause of asin, this power ends when the sin ends,
 because sometimes the penalty remains though the sin ends.
 From these words, it seems that the pronouncement of the two Doc
tors is that what is lawful is not to remove the acts of sorcery but to
 leave them alone in the same way other incurable illnesses are left alone
 and to entrust them to the Lord God alone, Who can break them as He
 pleases.
 [SC 1] To the contrary, it is the case that just as God and nature are
 not abundant in redundancies, they are not lacking in necessities,428
 and therefore the faithful have necessarily been given not only preven
tive remedies against attacks of this sort on the part of demons (these
 remedies were mentioned in the beginning of the present Part Two)429
 but also healing remedies. Otherwise, God would have made insuffi
cient provision for the faithful, and the works of the Devil would seem 153A
 stronger than those of God.
 [SC 2] Also, the gloss on the passage “There is no power over the
 earth . . . ” (Job 41[:24]) says, “He surpasses all human things, although
 he is subordinate to the merits of the Saints,” and so they are also
 subordinate to the merits of the saintly men in this life.
 428 Another scholastic aphorism.
 429 86B–92D.
400
 The Hammer of Witches 153A–B
 [SC 3] Also, Augustine says, “An angel is not more powerful than our
 mind when we cling to God. For if power is a virtue, in this world the
 mind that clings to God is loftier than the whole world” (Customs of the
 Church [1.11]), and hence the works of the Devil can be ended by such
 means.
 153B
 [CO]Response.Onthispointtherearetwohallowedviewsthatseem
ingly contradict each other. There are some theologians and canonists
 who agree that it is lawful to remove acts of sorcery, even through vain
 and superstitious works. Adherents of this view are Scotus, Hostiensis
 andGeoffrey, and all the canonists in common. It is the opinion of other
 theologians, especially of the ancient ones but also of certain modern
 ones430 like Thomas, Bonaventure, Albert, Peter de Palude and many
 others, that evil things should in no way be done in order for good ones
 to result, and that a human should die rather than agree to such things
 in order to be freed through vain and superstitious works.
 It will be possible for their sayings to be brought into agreement with
 a single distinction, but their opinions should be looked at first. Scotus
 (Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 34 [Sent. 4.34.1.Co.], “On
 the impediment caused by sorcery, that is, on frigid431 people and those
 affected by sorcery”) considers it to be foolishness to claim that spells of
 sorcery ought not to be broken through vain and superstitious means,
 saying, “In this there is no lack of faith, because the one who destroys
 it does not agree to the works of the Devil but believes that the Devil is
 able and willing to harass so long as such a symbol lasts, since according
 to the agreement he lends his assistance to this end only as long as the
 symbol lasts. Thus, the destruction of this symbol will not put an end
 to such harassment.”432 Then, he says that it is meritorious to destroy
 the works of the Devil.
 Since hespeaksofsymbols,letusgiveanillustration.Therearecertain
 women who mark out sorceresses with such a symbol. For instance, if a
 cow is deprived of the richness of its milk as the result of sorcery, they
 hangapitcherofmilkoverthefire,andastheymakeaninsistentdemand
 with certain superstitious words, they smash the pitcher with a walking
 430 Here the distinction of “ancient” vs. “modern” is used in its common scholastic sense to refer
 to the “realist” and “nominalist” schools (while Bonaventure was a nominalist, Aquinas, Albert
 and Peter de Palude were realists). The thought here is a reworking of the source (Nider); see
 n. 437.
 431 Thoughthegeneralsense of thewordissimilar to its modernderivative, its medieval meaning is
 somewhatdifferent.“Frigidity”signifiestheinability tofunctionsexuallybecauseofa“coldness”
 or sluggishness in the person’s physique.
 432 This sentence is misrepresented here. The original states that the symbol “imposes an end” and
 the verbal prefix was misread at some point as non (“not”).
Part II 153C–D
 401
 stick.433 Although it is the vessel that the woman smashes, the Devil 153C
 delivers all the blows to the back of the sorceress and in this way the
 Devil is harassed by them, as is the sorceress.434 While the Devil is not
 really compelled or harassed, he does these things in order to entice the
 Catholic woman who smashes the vessel to worse acts,435 and hence this
 is dangerous. Otherwise, the view of this great Doctor would seem to
 pose no difficulty. Other illustrations could be cited.
 Hostiensis speaks to the sameeffect in the Copious Summa(“Onfrigid
 people andthoseaffected bysorcery” in the title “Impotence in Copulat
ing” in the gloss on the Chapter “Littere” §“Mulierem autem”[4.15.10]),
 saying that for this defect recourse should be had to the remedies of
 physicians, and although certain written remedies against these things
 seemvainorsuperstitious,anyauthorityshouldbetrustedinconnection
 with his art. Also, the Church can well enough tolerate the smashing of
 vanities with vanities.
 Umbert makes this distinction in the following words (Bk. 4, same
 dist. [Sent. 4.34.3]). “Acts of sorcery can be destroyed either through
 prayers or through the art through which they were made.”
 Tothesameeffect, Geoffrey says in the same title in his Summa [4.15],
 “An act of sorcery cannot always be undone by the one who performed
 it, because he is dead or because he does not know how to destroy it or
 becausethesorcery436 isruined.If,however,thisisknown,hecouldundo
 it lawfully.” (He is speaking against those who hold that an impediment 153D
 could not be set in the way of carnal union through acts of sorcery
 433 Interestingly, discussion of this procedure entered into Institoris’s investigation of a sorceress
 in Innsbruck, as related in his protocols for interrogating suspects (see n. 303). The procedure
 of the milk pail was mentioned in a deposition given by Cristin Ypfhoferin on September 6,
 1484: “Trenlin R¨ otfelder’s serving girl is suspected of taking milk from cows. For a person from
 whom the milk was taken learned that she should hang a milk pail over the fire and strike it
 in the name of the Devil; then the person must come. It then happened that this person came
 crying and felt ill.”
 This procedure apparently struck Institoris’s imagination, and he used it in his preaching,
 not to everyone’s satisfaction. The first article against Helena Scheuberin states that she refused
 to attend his sermons and the second article states that she was rendered suspect of heresy for
 having claimed publicly that his claims about Catholic doctrine were heretical. She went so
 far as to state that the Devil had deluded him into preaching nothing but heresy, calling down
 upon him an attack of epilepsy. She admitted this when arrested, and “when asked why she
 asserted that Church doctrine was heretical, she responded that I had only preached against
 ‘unhulen’ [‘witches’] and added that I had given the method of striking a pail of milk in order
 to gain knowledge of a sorceress who had taken milk from cows. And when I stated that I had
 cited these things against them by way of censure rather than for instruction, she stated that in
 the future she would never attend my sermons after release.”
 434 Cf. the anecdote about the demonic cats (123C–125B).
 435 For the idea of gradual corruption, see 93B, 98B, D.
 436 Presumably, the object used in “causing” the sorcery.
402
 The Hammer of Witches 153D–154A
 because no such act could be permanent, and for this reason it could
 not dissolve a marriage that had already been contracted.)
 Also, those who were induced to state that no act of sorcery is per
manent were motivated by the following reasons. They thought that
 every act of sorcery could be removed through another act of sorcery or
 through the exorcisms of the Church that are ordained for repressing
 the violence of demons or through true repentance, since the Devil has
 power only over sinners. Hence, in the first reason they agree with the
 viewoftheothers, that suchactscouldberemovedthroughsuperstitious
 means at least. St. Thomas, however, is of the contrary view, saying (Bk.
 4, same dist. [Sent. 4.34.3.Ra3]) that if an act of sorcery can be abolished
 only through unlawful means, for instance through the help of a demon
 or the like, even if it were known that it could be abolished in this way,
 it is judged to be permanent since the remedy is not lawful.
 154A
 Bonaventure, Albert and all the theologians in common speak to the
 same effect. When they briefly discuss the implicit or express invocation
 of the help of a demon, their pronouncement seems to be that such
 acts of sorcery should be removed only through lawful exorcisms or true
 repentance, as was discussed in the previously cited Chapter “Si per
 sortiarias.” In this, it seems that they were motivated by the reasons cited
 in the beginning of the question.
 It is a good idea to bring these great Doctors into agreement as far as
 is possible, and this can be done with a single distinction.437 It should
 be noted that an act of sorcery either is broken through both another
 sorcerer and another act of sorcery or it is broken not through a sorcerer
 but through the unlawful rites of sorcery. This in turn takes place in two
 ways,eitherthroughritesthatarebothvainandunlawfulorthroughrites
 that are vain but not unlawful. The first remedy is altogether unlawful,
 with respect to both the instigator and the remedy itself. Although it
 takes place either with or without harm to the person who inflicted the
 sorcery, in any case it takes place through the unlawful rites of sorcery
 andthusissubsumedunderthesecondmethod,thatis,theoneinwhich
 the sorcery is broken not through another sorcerer but through unlawful
 437 This notion of a “single distinction” comes from Nider (Ant Hill 5.3), who means something
 entirely different. According to him, while the ancients denied that it was lawful to break an act
 of sorcery, the moderns accepted the practice. Nider considers that both groups were correct, so
 long as the following distinction was borne in mind. If the sorcery was broken through use of a
 sorcerer’s unlawful rites, this was completely prohibited, but if the sorcery was broken through
 some sort of motion (for instance, removing from underneath a house’s threshold the remains
 of a lizard that had been placed there as a means of inflicting sorcery), this was acceptable. Here,
 Nider’s simple distinction is made rather more complicated (and much less clear).
Part II 154A–C
 403
 rites of sorcery. In this case it is again judged unlawful, though less so
 than the first.
 Hence, we can say in summation that a remedy is rendered unlawful
 through the following three criteria and by the following three methods.
 Thefirstis whenitisremovedthroughanothersorcererandotheractsof
 sorcery, that is, through the virtue of some demon. The second is when 154B
 it is removed not through a sorcerer but through a respectable person,
 though by the procedure that through superstitious remedies the act of
 sorcery is removed from one person and inflicted on another. This again
 is unlawful. The third is when it is broken without being inflicted on
 anotherbutthepersonnonethelessusesanexpressorimplicitinvocation
 of demons. This again is unlawful. With reference to these methods the
 theologians say that death is preferable to agreeing to such things. To
 break an act of sorcery by the last two methods, on the other hand, can
 beeither lawful or notvainaccordingtothecanonists,whosaythatthese
 methods can be tolerated when previous attempts at using the remedies
 of the Church, such as the exorcisms of the Church, begging for the
 support of the Saints and true repentance, have been of no avail.438
 Tomaketheunderstandingofthespecificsclearer,aneventdiscovered
 by us should be related. A certain bishop from Germany came to Rome
 in the time of Pope Nicholas439 to take care of certain business affairs.
 (Considerations of charity dictate that his name should be concealed,
 although he has already paid off the debt of all flesh.) He fell in love with
 a certain young woman and arranged to send her to his diocese along
 with two servants and certain things including valuables. Beguiled by 154C
 female greed for the valuables, which were of great worth, the young
 woman began to think up a method by which the Bishop would die
 through acts of sorcery while she was on the journey. Now that she
 had the valuables in her trust, all of a sudden the Bishop fell ill the next
 night. The physicians earnestly investigated whether he might have been
 poisoned, and in their sorrow the servants were uncertain. The fever in
 his chest wassogreatthathecouldberevivedonlybyconstantlygargling
 with cold water. Then on the third day, when any hopes for his life were
 now abandoned, a certain old woman demanded to be admitted into
 the Bishop’s presence and revealed that she had come for the sake of
 his health. When admitted, she spoke to the Bishop, promising him his
 health so long as he would agree to her suggestions. When the Bishop
 438 The scheme in this paragraph is poorly conceived, and is not clearly reflected in the four forms
 of remedy that are discussed in the subsequent paragraphs; see nn. 442 and 462.
 439 Presumably, Nicholas V, pope 1447–1455.
404
 The Hammer of Witches 154C–155A
 154D
 155A
 asked what it was the he had to agree to in order to regain his health,
 which was his greatest desire, the old woman responded, “Well, this
 illness has happened to you through sorcery, and the only way for you
 to be freed is through another act of sorcery, so that the sorceress who
 inflicted it on you will be infected with this very illness of yours.” The
 Bishop was thunderstruck, and although he sensed that he could not
 be freed by any other method, he did not wish to do anything rashly
 and decided to consult the Pope by petition. The Pope loved the Bishop
 very dearly, and when he learned that the Bishop could be freed only
 through the death of the sorceress, he agreed that the lesser among
 two evils should be allowed and signed the petition for this. The old
 woman was then summoned again, and the Bishop explained that both
 he and the Supreme Pontiff agreed to the death of the sorceress so long
 as he was restored to his former health. With this, the old woman left,
 promising that he would be freed the following night. All of a sudden
 around midnight, he felt that he was healthy and free of any illness, and
 a messenger was dispatched to find out what had become of the young
 woman. All of a sudden, the messenger returned to say that around
 midnight she had suddenly fallen ill while sleeping at her mother’s side.
 This event let it be understood that at the same hour and moment the
 other sorceress (the old woman) caused the illness to leave the Bishop
 and attack the young sorceress. When the evil spirit ceased to harm the
 Bishop in this way, he coincidentally seemed to restore him to health.
 The spirit did not properly speaking introduce health, though he was
 able to take control of it with God’s permission because of an agreement
 he made with the second sorceress, who envied the good fortune of
 the first. This demon had to infect the young mistress,440 and it is a
 good guess that those two acts of sorcery were inflicted not by one
 demon on two persons but by two demons with the assistance of the
 two sorceresses. In this the demons were not opposing each other, since
 they always perform various works for the damnation of souls, which is
 their highest and joint desire.
 When the Bishop decided to visit the young woman for the sake of
 piety, he was greeted with fearsome curses as he entered the room. She
 shouted, “Damn you for ever along with your woman, who taught you
 these things and freed you!” When the Bishop tried to soften her spirit
 so that she would repent and to show that he had forgiven her every
 offense, she turned away her face and shouted, “Get out, curse you!
 440 I.e., the female version of “master” (rather than “concubine”); presumably, the term is meant
 to mark her out as the head of a satanic cult (see 97D–98A, 145D).
Part II 155A–C
 405
 In this there is no hope for forgiveness. Instead, I commend my soul to
 all the demons.” She died miserably and the Bishop returned home in
 joy. (At this point, it should also be noted that a privilege for one person
 does not make a general law, and hence the Pope’s dispensation in this 155B
 case does not prove that this is lawful for everyone.)
 Nider gives a report to the same effect in his Ant Hill [5.3], where
 he says the following. As a method of removing an act of sorcery or
 of avenging oneself on a sorcerer, the following method is sometimes
 practiced. Someoneharmedeitherinhisownpersonorinhispossessions
 came to a sorceress, asking to learn the identity of the evil-doer.441 Then
 the sorceress would sometimes pour molten lead into water until an
 image could be seen in the lead through the work of a demon. At the
 sight of this, the sorceress asked the inquirer, “In what part do you
 want your sorcerer to be harmed, so that you can recognize him by that
 wound?” When the inquirer selected a place, the sorceress immediately
 put a nail or a knife wound in the same part of the image that was visible
 in the lead. She showed the place where he would find the guilty person
 but in no way revealed the name. As experience testifies, the sorcerer
 would be found to be injured in every regard just as his leaden image
 indicated.
 These remedies, I say, and similar ones are certainly judged to be
 unlawful, although human frailty, which suffers greater turmoil about
 the health of the body than that of the soul, is quite often ensnared in
 them in the expectation of receiving forgiveness from God.
 The second remedy concerns sorceresses who break acts of sorcery 155C
 under an express agreement entered into with a demon without harm
ing the person.442 (What should be done with them and how they are
 recognized will be explained below on the topic of Method Sixteen443
 of passing sentence.) How many of them there are! They can always be
 found every one or two German miles, and within this radius these sor
cerers seem to heal whatever harm is caused by other sorceresses. Some
 boast that they provide these cures without exception in terms of time,
 some say that they heal only those affected by acts of sorcery since the
 441 Once again, this is a play on the Latin for “evil-doer,” which looks like “caster of sorcery.”
 442 The numbering of this and the subsequent remedies does not clearly correspond to the three
 methods of remedy laid out in 154A–B. In the previous two anecdotes (the German bishop in
 Romeandtheanecdote fromNider) the harm is transferred to the original sorceress, while here
 in the “second” method the sorcerers who break the sorcery do not harm the original sorceress.
 This distinction is made towards the end of 154A, where the latter method is said to be unlawful
 like the former, but less so.
 443 Actually, Method 15 (251B–254C).
406
 The Hammer of Witches 155C–156A
 155D
 156A
 last Ember Day,444 and yet others can heal only with the consent of
 the sorceress who inflicted the sorcery. With reference to the express
 agreemententeredintowithademon,thesesorceressesaredistinguished
 by the fact they reveal secrets to those who approach them for the sake
 of recovering their health. They immediately reveal to their visitors the
 reasons for their misfortune, saying that the woman has been harmed
 in her person or her possessions because of a squabble or quarrel with
 a female neighbor or another woman or man. To conceal their crimes,
 they sometimes enjoin pilgrimages or other acts of piety, and it is all the
 more dangerous to approach them in order to recover one’s health, to
 the extent that their sin results in more insult to the Faith than does that
 of those who seem to heal only through an implicit agreement.445 For
 while on the one hand such people value bodily health more than God,
 on the other they shorten their life since God smites them as vengeance
 for their crime. This is why in His vengeance God acted with savagery
 against Saul. Although Saul first removed the magicians and soothsayers
 from the land, he later consulted them, and as a result he was killed in
 war along with his sons (1 Sam. 27 [actually, 31.6]; the guilt is mentioned
 in 1 Chron. 10[:13]). This is also why Ahaziah had to die when he was
 injured (2 Kings 1).446 Those who visit sorceresses in this way are of ill
 repute, and as a result should not be allowed to lodge an accusation (2,
 Q. 8,“Quisquis nec”). Such people should also be executed according to
 the laws, as was discussed in Question One447 of this work.
 But, alas, O Lord God! Since all Your judgments are just, who will
 free the wretches affected by sorcery who wail in constant pains, as our
 sins demand? The Foe448 has greatly prevailed, but where are there those
 who can break the works of the Devil with lawful exorcisms? The only
 remedy that seems to remain is that judges should at least restrain their
 onslaughts by chastising with various penalties the sorceresses who are
 the instigators. As a result the ability to visit sorceresses will in fact be
 cut off from sick people.
 444 “Ember Days” are special days of fasting and prayer on the Wednesday, Friday and Satur
day following four dates in the calendar: the first Sunday in Lent (usually late February),
 Whitsun/Pentecost (usually early June), the Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross (Sept. 14), and
 St. Lucy’s Day (Dec. 13). The placement of these days in the calendar meant that they could be
 taken to signify the start of the seasons. Presumably, this restriction has something to do with
 the belief that sorceresses held their “conventicles” on Ember Days (see 221D).
 445 Here another attempt is being made to interpret magic that was practiced in the context of
 Christianity and made (unorthodox) use of traditional piety as “Satanism.”
 446 After suffering an injury, King Ahaziah of Israel wished to consult a local pagan god about his
 prognosis, and God reacted unfavorably to this.
 447 7A–13D.
 448 I.e., the Devil.
Part II 156A–B
 407
 Unfortunately, no one perceives in his heart that they are all seeking
 things that belong to them and not the things that belong to Jesus
 Christ.449 The sorceress in Reichshofen who was mentioned above450
 was visited by such constant crowds of people affected by sorcery who
 sought torecover their health that the count of the castle wished to profit
 from a toll, forcing each person affected by sorcery in his person or his
 possessions to pay a penny to enter the gate. As a result he claimed to
 have gotten a large income from this.
 Through the testimony of experience we have also learned that there
 are many such sorceresses throughout the diocese of Constance. Not
 that it is tainted more than other dioceses, since this kind of lack of faith
 creeps throughoutall dioceses and, unfortunately, seems to have infected
 the entire world. Rather, more effort has been spent on this diocese, and
 in it was found a certain man called Hengst, who can be seen being
 visited every day by quite a large throng of poor wretches affected by
 sorcery. With our own eyes we have seen such a throng in a certain
 village called Eningen. Without a doubt no shrine of the Most Blessed 156B
 Virgin, either the one in Aachen451 or The Hermitage,452 is visited by
 such throngs as that superstitious man is. During the coldest period of
 winter, when every royal and public road is blocked with an abundance
 of snow, from the surrounding territory to a distance of two or three
 miles people visited him with their great harassments.453 While some
 learn of remedies, others by no means do so, and I think that the reason
 for this is that not all acts of sorcery have an equal capacity to be broken
 onaccount of the various obstacles, as was discussed above.454 Certainly,
 449 Reference to Philippians 2:21: “For they all seek their own things and not the things of Christ.”
 450 114D.
 451 In 799/800, Charlemagne brought to the royal chapel (later the cathedral) in his capital Aachen
 (Aix-la-Chapelle) many relics (including numerous items supposedly belonging to the Holy
 Family)fromRome,ConstantinopleandJerusalem(fortheirmiraculousabilities,seeVincentof
 Beauvais, Mirror of History 24.5). This Church of the Virgin Mary became a popular pilgrimage
 site after the practice began in 1349 of exhibiting the relics every seven years (for two weeks in
 July).
 452 I.e., the monastery at Einsiedeln (now in Switzerland). In 834 St. Meinrad founded a hermitage
 here, and after he was clubbed to death by a pair of brigands, a chapel dedicated to Christ
 the Savior was built on the site of the murder by the remaining hermits. In 934, a Benedictine
 monastery was founded on the location of the earlier hermitage (and named after it). On
 September 14, 948, the bishop of Constance was to dedicate the newly rebuilt chapel, but on
 the previous night he had a vision in which Christ himself dedicated the chapel to his mother.
 Fromthenon,this daywascelebrated as the “Feast of the Miraculous Dedication,” and 130,000
 pilgrims are said to have attended the rites for the feast and the preceding vigil in the year 1466.
 453 The Latin is not clearly composed, but the author seems to mean that the visitors bring their
 troubles to this man Hengst for him to cure them.
 454 153C?
408
 The Hammer of Witches 156B–D
 these people break acts of sorcery under an express invocation of demons
 in terms of the second unlawful remedy, but not in the manner of the
 f
 irst.
 156C
 156D
 Thethird455 remedy is practiced with certain superstitious ceremonies
 but is not performed to harm any person or through manifest sorcerers,
 which experience attests in the following way. In Speyer a merchant of
 the market place explained that the following event happened to him.
 “In the region of Swabia,” he said, “I was spending time in a certain
 castle belonging to noblemen. One day after breakfast, I joined two
 young noblemen and went for a walk across a pasture for relaxation.
 A certain woman came our way, and while she was still walking far off,
 she was recognized by the two young noblemen. One of them said to
 me the words, ‘Quick! Protect yourself with the Sign of the Cross!’ and
 the one on the other side likewise urged me to do this. When I asked
 the reason for such fear, they answered, ‘Look, the worst sorceress of this
 whole province is now coming our way! She knows how to affect people
 with sorcery merely by looking at them.’ I became annoyed and boasted
 that I had never feared such people, but I scarcely finished the words
 when all of a sudden I felt myself seriously injured in the left foot, so
 that I could not pick up my foot or take a step without serious pain.
 The others quickly sent a messenger to fetch a horse for me from the
 castle and brought me back to it. The pains increased for three days, and
 since the locals mentioned before456 understood that I had been infected
 with sorcery, they approached a certain peasant a mile away, who they
 knew broke acts of sorcery through some art, and they explained the
 situation. The peasant came quickly and examined the foot. He said,
 ‘I will test whether this happened to you as a result of sorcery or a
 natural defect, and if it did happen as a result of sorcery, I will heal you
 with God’s assistance. Otherwise, it will be necessary to continue with
 natural remedies.’ I said, ‘If it is possible for me to be healed without
 superstition and with God’s assistance, I will readily accept this, since I
 wish to have nothing in common with the demon and do not desire his
 assistance.’ To this the villager responded that he wished only to apply
 lawful remedies with God’s assistance and to make a cure in this way,
 so long as experience showed that this had happened to me as a result
 of sorcery. I agreed to these two terms. He held molten lead”– as was
 455 See n. 462.
 456 Presumably, the noblemen.
Part II 156D–157B
 409
 discussed above regarding another sorceress457– “over the foot in an iron
 cup and poured it into a bowl full of water. Suddenly, the appearances
 of various things sprang forth, as if thorns, strands of hair, bones and the
 like had been thrown in. ‘Now,’ he said, ‘I see that this illness happened
 to you as a result not of a defect but of sorcery.’ When I asked how he 157A
 could knowsuchthings from molten lead, he said, ‘Well, there are seven
 metals from the seven planets, and because Saturn has dominance over
 lead, it is a property of lead that if it is poured over some act of sorcery, it
 will show the sorcery through Saturn’s influence. And it’s a good thing,’
 he said, ‘that a remedy is being applied quickly. Since I have to visit you
 on as many days as you have been affected by the sorcery, I must ask
 howmanydays have passed.” I stated, “Three now.” He then visited me
 every day over a period of three days, and though he merely examined
 and touched the foot, muttering all the words to himself, he restored me
 to full health, putting the sorcery to flight.”
 While this method certainly does not show the practitioner to be a
 sorcerer, it does showthemethodtobesuperstitious.Inthathepromised
 health with the assistance of God and not the work of the Devil, and he
 explainedtheinfluenceofSaturnovertheleadasbeingcausedbySaturn’s
 dominance, he was irreproachable. Rather, he was to be commended.
 The virtue by which he put the act of sorcery to flight and caused the
 appearances of things in the lead, however, is left as a doubtful point.
 Since the sorcery could not be removed through any natural virtue,
 although it could be lessened by one, as will be explained below458 157B
 regarding the remedies for those under assault, it seems rather that he
 implemented this through an agreement, at least a implicit one, entered
 into with a demon. The pact is called “implicit” in this case since the
 instigator at least agrees implicitly to the Devil’s assistance. This is the
 method by which countless superstitious works are practiced, though
 not in the same way with reference to the offense to God, since there
 is greater offense to God in the one work than in the other. Because
 of the fact that he was certain of producing health, had to visit the
 manforas manydaysashehadbeenaffected by the illness, and without
 using anynaturalmedicinesstill restored the sick mantohealthashehad
 promised, he is judged to be not so muchsuspected as at least manifestly
 caught in an implicit, though not a express, agreement entered into with
 a demon. He should be considered convicted and should be punished
 457 135C.
 458 169D–170C.
410
 The Hammer of Witches 157B–D
 157C
 157D
 with at least the penalties stated below in Method Two459 of passing
 sentence, including the solemn abjuration, unless he is supported by the
 laws that seem to have the opposite sense (what the ordinary ought
 to do in that situation will be explained later in the solution to the
 arguments).460
 The fourth remedy to be tolerated is one that the canonists at least
 conceive ofalongwithcertaintheologians, calling it merely andprecisely
 a vanity, on the grounds that it is only superstitious and is not worked
 under some express or implicit agreement in accordance with the intent
 and undertaking of the practitioner. I say “at least,” because if perchance
 they would combine the third remedy and this fourth one, it seems
 better to yield to their claim than to contribute to strife. This certainly
 is a vain remedy, as is illustrated above461 with the women who strike a
 pitcher set above the fire to beat a sorceress who has deprived a cow of
 its abundance of milk. (Perhaps they perform such acts in the name of
 the Devil, but perhaps they do so without explicit mention of him.)462
 Other deeds of theirs could be cited to this effect. Sometimes, when
 they wish to send outcowsthathavebeenharmedinthiswaytopasture,
 they endeavor to track down the sorceress. In this case, after placing a
 man’s drawers or some other unclean thing over the head or back of
 the cow (preferably on Feast Days and other more holy times),463 they
 drive this cow out with a staff, again perhaps striking it with an express
 459 225D–227B.
 460 158C.
 461 153B–C.
 462 Thisfourthremedyisnotdefined,andthewayinwhichthesupposeddisputewiththecanonists
 is laid out obscures the matter. The difference between the third and fourth remedies appears to
 be that whereas the former is practiced by respectable people who use superstitious rites to break
 the sorcery without resort to demons, the latter, according to the theological interpretation, is
 carried out through the assistance of demons and is thus impermissible. (Note in this regard
 that the one example in the third category involves a man, but apart from the odd story at the
 endaboutkeeping sorceresses in church, the fourth seems to be the province of peasant women,
 who are the principal adherents of the Heresy of Sorceresses.) The view ascribed to theologians
 conceives of all forms of magic as being dependent upon demons, and thus rules out the
 possibility of benign magic, but it is grudgingly allowed, for the sake of ecclesiastical harmony,
 that this fourth sort of remedy may be classified with the third sort, which supposedly does not
 involve demons. The implicit distinction between the third and fourth sorts of remedies seems
 not to correspond to the confusing introductory discussion: in 154A remedies performed by
 non-sorcerers are divided into those that involve vain but unlawful rites and those that involve
 vain but lawful rites, but in 154B the distinction concerning remedies performed by respectable
 people is that while in some remedies the harm is transferred, in others there is no transfer but
 there is an express or implicit invocation of demons. This last description seems to suit the
 present fourth remedy, but remedy three in 156B–157B does not involve a transfer of harm.
 463 For “more holy times” that are not specific feasts, note that in 112D the season of Advent is
 termed a “more holy time of the year.”
Part II 157D–158B
 411
 mention464 as above. Then the cow hastens on a direct path to the
 house of the sorceress and dashes its horns against her door, constantly
 knocking on it with a great wail.
 It is clear that the Devil performs these works on the cow until it is
 calmed through other acts of sorcery. In fact, even if these things are
 to be tolerated in accordance with the previously mentioned Doctors,
 they are still not meritorious, as some try to claim. While according to
 the Apostle we are taught to do everything that we do in word or work
 in the name of Our Lord Jesus Christ, there is an express mention of a
 demon, even if there is no express invocation of his name. Again, even
 if there is no intention in this instance to perform such acts through
 some implicit or express agreement, nonetheless since the person will
 perhapssay, “Iwishtodothis,”thenwhetherornottheDevilintervenes,
 the rashness by which the person places less importance on the fear of
 God offends Him. This is why He permits the Devil the power to do
 such things. Such people should therefore be urged to do penance and
 encouraged instead to give this up and to resort to the remedies that 158A
 are described below and also those above465 in this Part (the use of Holy
 Water, exorcized salt and so on).
 A similar judgment should be made about those who, when some
 domestic animal of theirs is killed by sorcery and they strive to find out
 the identity of the sorcerer or whether the animal has been killed by
 natural defect or sorcery, hasten to places where the carcasses of wild
 animals are skinned. They take guts of a carcass back home, dragging
 them on the ground. They drag the guts into the kitchen not over but
 under the threshold of the house, and after making a fire they place
 the guts over a grill. Then, as we have very often been informed by the
 report of those who follow such practices, as these guts are warmed and
 burn, the guts of the sorceress are tormented with heat and pain. Such
 investigators therefore make sure that the doorway of the house is very
 well barricaded because her pains will make the sorceress hasten to enter
 the house, and if she does gain entry, she removes a piece of charcoal
 from the fire, which puts all the torment to flight. We know that it has
 quite often been found that when they466 could not gain entry, they 158B
 would then envelop the house inside and out with very thick clouds,
 with such terrifying uproar and screeching that everyone thought they
 464 I.e., of the Devil.
 465 88B–89D.
 466 I.e., sorceresses.
412
 The Hammer of Witches 158B–C
 would die in this way from the collapse of the house if the door was not
 opened.
 Certain experimenta467 can also be placed in this category. When
 certain people wish to discover by experimentum the sorceresses in a large
 group of women in church, they employ the following experimentum,
 since the sorceresses cannot leave the church without the investigators’
 permission at the end of the Divine Service. On Sunday they grease the
 soft shoes of the young men with lard (pork fat), as is customarily done
 for maintenance,andthus,whentheyenterthechurch,thesorceresswill
 be unable to leave until the investigators either leave themselves or give
 thesorceresses permissiontoleavewithanexpressmention468 asabove.A
 similar thing is done with certain words that it is not a good idea to add,
 lest anyone be led astray by the Devil. For neither judges nor magistrates
 should put unshakable faith in these words or adjust their opinion in
 conformity with them unless the person in question is otherwise very
 notorious, since under such a cover the Contriver of a Thousand Deceits
 could in fact besmirch the reputation of innocent women.469 Hence,
 people should rather be deterred from such experimenta and salutary acts
 of penance should be enjoined, although sometimes these experimenta
 are tolerated.
 158C
 This discussion makes clear the response to the arguments470 that
 conclude that acts of sorcery should not be broken on the grounds that
 to do so in the first two ways is altogether unlawful, and that even if the
 third remedy is tolerated according to the laws, the ecclesiastical judge
 should pay considerable attention to this. That the laws seem to be
 tolerant is clear from Chapter of the Code “Sorcerers,”471 Law “Eorum,”
 [Code of Justinian 9.18.4 (with addition from 3)] where the text says,
 “Others who do this to prevent the labors of men from being cast down
 through the crushing of the winds and hail deserve not a penalty but a
 reward.”(Antoninus[Summa1.18.4]citesthissameprovisionwithregard
 to laws inwhichcanonandcivillawdisagree.)Fromthisitseemsthatfor
 the preservation of agricultural produce and domestic animals against
 467 For this word, see section e of the “Notes on the translation.”
 468 I.e., of the Devil.
 469 An astonishing statement given the effort expended earlier (132D–133A) to prove the exact
 opposite, that the Devil could not in fact defame the innocent.
 470 On occasion, Aquinas omits a direct refutation of the false arguments if he thinks that they
 have been dealt with sufficiently in the body of the question, but given the extensive nature
 of the arguments adduced here, one suspects that the author felt uncomfortable with directly
 rebutting the great Aquinas (as well as Bonaventure).
 471 As usual, the Latin word could also be taken to mean “evil-doers.”
Part II 158C–159A
 413
 every eventuality the laws grant that it is possible not only to tolerate
 certain people who follow such practices but even to reward them. It will
 therefore be incumbent upon the ecclesiastical judge to note whether it
 is only in accordance with the law’s intention that the person proceeds
 against hailstorms and inclemency in the air by the appropriate methods
 (as will be explained below) or with certain superstitious acts, and in that
 case the judge will tolerate the procedure, provided no scandal to the
 Faith results from it. (In fact such a procedure should be categorized
 not under the third but under the fourth and fifth method; these will 158D
 be treated in the discussion (in the following chapters) of the lawful
 ecclesiastical remedies, with an additional treatment of the superstitious
 acts pertaining to the fourth method.)
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Introduction:
 Aq., Sent. 4.34.1.3
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.4]
 ecclesiastical remedy against incubus and
 succubus demons
 Chapter One
 IN the preceding chaptersofQuestionOne,whichconcerned
 the methods of affecting humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the
 earth with sorcery, the emphasis was on the practices that the sorceresses
 follow in termsoftheirownpersons:theirenticementofinnocentyoung
 women in order to increase their breach of the Faith, the method by
 which they make their avowal and do homage, how they offer their
 own and other people’s babies to demons, and the method by which
 they are transported in location. Because, I say, the only possible way
 for these and similar practices to be remedied is for the judges who are
 responsible for the sorceresses to get rid of them or at least punish them
 as anexampleforallposterity, these sorts of remedies will be treated, not 159A
 at the present time but in the last part of the work, where the twenty472
 methods of proceeding and passing sentence against and in connection
 with the persons of the sorceresses will be discussed. For the present, it
 is necessary to turn our attention only to the remedies against the effects
 472 224D–258C; for the method of reckoning the number of methods as twenty, see Pt. iii n. 101.
414
 The Hammer of Witches 159A–C
 brought about by their sorcery: first how humans affected by sorcery are
 remedied, then howanimals and, finally, the fruits of the earth are saved.
 There are three kinds of humans affected by sorcery in terms of
 incubus or succubus demons. The first consists of those women who
 voluntarily submit to incubus demons. Such are sorceresses. (It has been
 found that the procedure of succubi operating on men is not so volun
tary, since the natural strength of reason by which men surpass women
 leads men to shrink from such things to a greater degree.) There is the
 category of those whomsorcererscausedtobecomeinvolvedwithincubi
 or succubi against their will. There is a third kind, consisting particu
larly of certain virgins who are harassed by incubus demons completely
 against their will. About these it is also often presumed that they are
 159B
 159C
 being affected with sorcery by sorcerers, because at the insistence of
 sorceresses the demons must turn themselves into incubi for such per
sons in the same way that they very often introduce other illnesses. The
 purpose of this is to win these people over to their breach of the Faith.
 Let us give some illustrations. In the city of Koblenz there is a poor
 man who is so affected by sorcery that in the presence of his wife he
 repeatedly performs every sexual act by himself in the way that men
 perform it with women. He cannot be deterred by his wife’s insistence
 and wailing, and after completing the act one or more times, he repeats,
 “We want to start over again and again.” Yet, bodily vision can perceive
 no person lying under him.473 After prolonged harassments of this kind
 the poor man is dashed to the ground, completely exhausted. When,
 after recovering some strength, he is asked how and in what way these
 things happen to him and whether he had someone lying under him,
 he answers that he sees nothing but is so enthralled in his mind that
 he absolutely cannot stop. Indeed, in reference to this act of sorcery a
 certain woman is very much suspected of having inflicted it on him,
 since she threatened that poor man with insulting words to the effect
 that she would pay him back because of some displeasure he had caused
 her. Yet, no executors of the laws and of justice are available, or at any
 rate none who would, in a situation of notoriety and serious suspicion,
 take action to avenge so great a crime. They think that no one ought to
 be condemned unless he is convicted by his own confession or by the
 lawful production of three witnesses, as if the indications of the deed or
 the evidence consisting of serious or violent suspicions did not merit any
 473 “Lying under” is something of a pun in that the Latin verb in question (succumbo) is the source
 of the noun succubus.
Part II 159C–160A
 415
 penalties.474 (There will be an explanation of these methods of passing
 sentence below, as was mentioned before.)475
 Regarding the second variety (the one in which girls are harassed by
 incubus demons), it would be excessively long to give an account even
 for our own times, since there are certain histories filled with similar
 events. With what difficulty such acts can be remedied is made clear
 by what Thomas of Brabant says about a certain woman at the end of
 his work Bees [2.57.15]. “I saw and heard in confession a certain virgin
 in religious habit,476 who first said that she had never agreed to sex,
 thereby letting it be understood that she had been known. Not believing
 her, I compelled her at the risk of her soul with arguments and harsh
 threats. Finally, she confessed in tears that she had been corrupted in 159D
 mind before body. She grieved as if on the point of death and confessed
 every day with tears, but it was not possible for her to be freed from the
 incubus demon through talent, effort or art or by the Sign of the Cross
 or Holy Water, things specifically ordained for putting demons to flight,
 or by the Sacrament of the Body of Christ, which is terrifying even for
 the angels themselves. Eventually, after many years, he was put to flight
 by the praying and fasting of pious Lutgardis. It is plausible (reserving
 the possibility of better judgment) that after she confessed about her sin
 with grief, the sex with the demon was a penalty for her sin rather than
 being itself the sin. On the Vigil of Pentecost, this woman complained
 to my informant, a devout nun named Christina in the Monastery of
 the Duchess of Brabant, that she dared not take Communion because of
 the importunate harassment of the demon, and Christina said to her in
 sympathy, ‘Off you go. Sleep in peace, since you will take Communion
 with the Body of the Lord tomorrow. I will take upon myself your sin.’
 The woman departed in joy and slept in peace. She arose for prayer
 near dawn and in the morning took the Sacraments with full serenity.
 On the other hand, after Christina, who paid no heed to the sin she
 had taken upon herself, went to bed in the evening, she heard in her
 bed what seemed to be a piglet rustling around and moving with a 160A
 certain amount of agitation. Not suspecting a demon, she seized it by
 the neck to put whatever it was to flight. She lay down again, but she
 474 In fact, the demand that three lawful witnesses or the confession of the accused were necessary
 for convictionwasnothingmorethanadherencetoacceptedlegalprocedure,whichwasviolated
 by the practice of taking mere suspicion as probative evidence (see 202A–D).
 475 159A.
 476 I.e., a nun in monastic attire.
416
 The Hammer of Witches 160A–C
 was harassed and got upinfear. This happened several times, and finally,
 when the bedding was pretty much turned over, she perceived by sight
 that she was being harassed by the evil of a demon, so she abandoned
 her bed, staying awake all night. Wishing to pray, she was tormented
 by the demon’s onslaught. As I said, she had never suffered such things
 before. In the morning she said to the other woman, ‘I renounce your
 penalty, I renounce it. I barely escaped the awful Tempter’s477 violence
 without risk to my life.”’ From this affair it is possible to realize that it
 is difficult to remedy such an occurence, whether it happens through
 sorcery or without it.
 160B
 160C
 There are still other means by which these demons can perhaps be
 put to flight, and Nider speaks of them in his Ant Hill [5.10]. As he
 says there, girls and men can be freed with five methods: Sacramental
 Confession;theholypracticeofmakingtheSignoftheCrossorofsaying
 the Hail Mary; third, the use of exorcisms; fourth, a change in a specific
 location; and478 cautious excommunication on the part of saintly men.
 It is clear from the foregoing that the first two methods did the nun
 no good, but they should not for this reason be neglected. It does not
 follow that just because a remedy helps one person, it helps another,
 and the converse.479 The historical record relates that incubi have often
 been warded off through the Lord’s Prayer or the sprinkling of Holy
 Water or the Hail Mary. Caesarius reports in his Dialogue [3.13] that
 after a certain priest hanged himself, his concubine entered a convent
 and was solicited for debauchery by an incubus. She warded him off
 through making the Sign of the Cross and sprinkling Holy Water, but
 he immediately returned. When she said the Hail Mary, however, he
 disappeared and withdrew far off like an arrow. Sometimes he returned,
 but he did not come close up to her.
 The situation with the third480 remedy (Sacramental Confession) is
 also made clear by Caesarius, who says that after this concubine made
 a genuine confession, she was completely abandoned by the incubus.
 He also reports that a certain man in L¨ uttich who suffered from an
 incubus was completely freed at the end of Sacramental Confession.481
 477 I.e., the Devil’s.
 478 The word “fifth” has been inadvertently omitted.
 479 Presumably, what fails to help one person will not necessarily fail to help another.
 480 This numbering is carried over tralaticiously from Nider, though sacramental confession was
 renumbered as the first item in 160A.
 481 The memory of the source (Nider) seems to have failed him here, as there appears to be no
 such story in Caesarius, and in any case one would expect a man to be assailed by a succubus
 (these bother men, while incubi are assigned to women).
Part II 160C–D
 417
 In addition, he sets down an illustration concerning an incluse482 nun.
 Neither prayer nor confession nor any other spiritual practice could
 make an incubus leave her, whenever she climbed into her bed, but
 when she said, “Bless you,” by the instructions of a certain monk, the
 demon left her immediately.
 Regarding the fourth (a change of place), he483 says [3.8] that when a
 certain priest’s daughter, who had been violated by an incubus and gone
 insane with grief, was dispatched across the Rhine, she was abandoned
 by the demon, but because he had sent his daughter from the place, her
 father was stricken by the demon, so that he died within three days. A
 certain womanisalsomentionedwhowasfrequentlyharassedinherown
 bed byanincubus.484 The harassed womanaskedadevoutacquaintance
 to lie in the bed in place of her. When the acquaintance did this, she
 felt certain very serious disturbances throughout the night and the other
 woman was peaceful.
 William [Bees 2.3.25] also notes that incubi seem to harass woman and
 girls with beautiful hair more because such women pay more attention
 to caring for or grooming their hair or because it is their wish or habit to
 inflame menwiththeir hair or because they vainly glory in it or because 160D
 the goodness of God permits this so that women will be deterred from
 inflaming men by the means by which the demons too wish men to be
 inflamed.
 Thesituation regarding the fifth (excommunication, whichperhapsis
 sometimes the same thing as exorcism) is made clear in the Legend485 of
 St. Bernard [Caesarius, Dialogue 3.7]. In Aquitaine,486 a certain woman
 who had been harassed by a demon for six years with incredibly per
verse wantonness heard the incubus threatening her not to approach the
 saintly man, who was about to arrive. “It will do you no good,” he told
 her. “To the contrary, when he leaves, I, though until now your lover,
 will be your most cruel persecutor.” When she summoned St. Bernard,
 he answered, “Take my staff and affix it to your bed. Then, let the evil
 one do what he can.” After she did this, the demon dared not enter the
 woman’s room, but outside he kept threatening most savagely that he
 would persecute her when Bernard left. When he heard this from the
 woman, St. Bernard convened the whole populace, ordering them all to
 482 An “incluse” was a monk (or nun) who had himself permanently locked in his cell to enhance
 his withdrawal from the secular world.
 483 I.e., Caesarius.
 484 Another anecdote not identifiable in Caesarius.
 485 I.e., “Life.”
 486 Southwestern France.
161A
 418
 The Hammer of Witches 160D–161A
 carry lit candles in their hands. Together with the entire crowd that was
 present he excommunicated the demon and forbade him to approach
 her or any other woman afterwards. In this way she was completely
 freed.
 Atthis point, it should benotedthat,becausethePoweroftheKeys487
 granted to Peter and his successors is described as “over the earth” and
 “only onbehalf of the wayfarers488 in this life,” the power of this jurisdic
tion has been granted for the purpose of healing the Church. It seems
 miraculous that even the powers of the air can be warded off by this
 jurisdiction,489 but it can be said that because persons who are being
 harassed by demons are under the jurisdiction of the Pope and of the
 Keys, it is not miraculous if such powers are indirectly held at bay by the
 strength of the Keys, just as the Pope can also indirectly absolve souls
 of the penalties of purgatory’s fires by the Power of the Keys, despite
 the fact that that power is described as “over the earth” and the souls
 are under the earth. It is also not safe to dispute about the Power of
 the Keys granted to the Head of the Church, that is, to the Vicar of
 Christ, since it is known that Christ granted as much power to the
 Church and His Vicar as God could grant to a mere human (the reason
 487 The“powerofthekeys”isafundamentaljustificationofpapalauthority.InMatthew16:19,Jesus
 informs Peter that he will give Peter the keys to the kingdom of heaven and that whatever Peter
 binds or unbinds on earth will be treated the same way in heaven. The theory arose in antiquity
 and the early Middle Ages that Peter became the first bishop of Rome and that his successors in
 that capacity likewise inherited possession of the keys to the kingdom of heaven, this “power of
 the keys” indicating that they too had the right to make pronouncements on earth that would
 be upheld in heaven. Thus, the bishops of Rome were considered to be Christ’s representative
 (“vicar”) on earth, and this capacity, which distinguished the “pope” from all other bishops,
 was the justification for medieval developments in doctrine or practice that created institutions
 that either deviated from the practices or statements in the New Testament or had no basis in
 the New Testament at all.
 488 See Pt. 1 n. 466.
 489 This notion forms part of the elaborate system by which the angelic powers were divided into
 three hierarchies and nine orders: to the angels, archangels, cherubim and seraphim of the
 Old Testament were added the “principalities, powers, forces and dominions” mentioned by
 Paul in Ephesians 1:21 plus the “thrones” that he tags on in Colossians 1:16. (For the absurd
 lengths to which scholasticism went to define these categories individually and in terms of
 their relationships to one another, see Aq., Summa 1.108 and Sent. 2.9.1.) “Warding off” is
 a technical term for the church’s ability to deter demons (e.g., Aq., Summa 1.108.6.Co.) and
 “the airy powers” signified the evil fallen angels in the air (e.g., Gregory the Great asserted
 that in the annunciation to Mary in Luke 1:26–38 the archangel Gabriel personifies the “forti
tude” of God, and that the annunciation was made by God’s fortitude “because the powerful
 Lord of Virtues was coming to conquer the airy powers in battle,” quoted in Aq., Summa
 3.30.2.Ra4.). Thus, these “airy powers” are the demons (“fallen” angels), who inhabit the “misty
 air” (see n. 187), a suggestive equation given the ability to cause stormy weather attributed to
 them.
Part II 161A–B
 419
 for this is to benefit the Church).490 It can also be piously surmised
 that if forms of sickness inflicted by sorceresses through the ability of
 demons were excommunicated along with the sorceresses responsible
 and the demons, they would not act so savagely against the sick, and 161B
 that the sick would be freed more quickly if the other lawful forms of
 exorcism for this and other things were applied. In the area of the River
 Etsch,491 as well as in other places, there is a popular story that by God’s
 permission locusts flying in huge numbers were eating the vineyards,
 foliage and crops and all the plants down to the ground, and they were
 made to depart and suddenly killed by such an excommunication and
 curse. If someone wishes to ascribe this to the virtue of a man rendered
 saintly and not to the virtue of the Keys, be it so in the name of the
 Lord. The one thing that we consider certain is that neither the virtue of
 miracles nor the Power of the Keys necessarily presupposes the Grace
 that makes a person gratifying to God, since both derive from Grace
 graciously given.492
 Again, it should be noted that when none of the remedies men
tioned above helps, recourse should be had to lawful forms of exor
cism (there will be an explanation of these below).493 But if these are
 not sufficient to put the demon’s evil to flight, then this harassment
 490 The notion that the pope could make rulings with reference to purgatory (the place where,
 according to medieval theory, souls not pure enough for entry into heaven but likewise not
 sufficiently evil to merit eternal damnation were cleansed (“purged”) before being allowed into
 heaven) was topical at this time. Though for some centuries it had been claimed that the pope
 could grant dispensations to living individuals, it was only with the Bull Salvator Noster issued
 by Sixtus IV in 1476 that it was overtly claimed officially that the pope (and through him
 the church) could make decisions affecting souls in purgatory (not by virtue of the “power of
 the keys” directly but through the personal intervention of the pope). As upholders of papal
 supremacy, the Dominicans (including the authors) were bound to ward off criticism of this
 novel doctrine, and perhaps the argument by analogy in defense of the pope’s powers over the
 nether regions was on the author’s mind at this time, which may explain the decision to use it
 here as a defense of the church’s power over “powers of the air.”
 491 In the southern Tyrol (now in northern Italy).
 492 The distinction between “grace that makes a person gratifying to God” (gratia gratum faciens)
 and “grace graciously given” (gratia gratis data) is discussed by Aquinas in Summa, 1/2.111.
 1. Basically, the former is the personal grace granted to someone that renders him “saintly,”
 while the latter is the grace granted to someone that allows him to make others “saintly” in a
 “supernatural” manner (one might call this “inspirational” grace). For the argument here, see
 Aquinas, Summa 1.43.3.Ra4: “...the working of miracles is indicative of Grace that makes a
 person gratifying to God, as is the gift of prophesy or any Grace graciously given,” i.e., the
 performance of miracles or any act whereby someone makes others pleasing to God indicates
 that that person himself is pleasing to God (“saintly”).
 493 170D–179A.
420
 The Hammer of Witches 161B–D
 161C
 161D
 on the demon’s part is in fact a penalty in satisfaction494 of a sin, if, as
 is necessary, the harassment is endured in charity,495 just like the other
 evils of this world, which oppress us in such a way as to force us to go to
 God.
 It shouldalsobenotedthatsometimescertainwomenarenotinreality
 harassed by an incubus but only think that they are being harassed in
 this way (this is particularly the case with woman and not men, because
 in other respects women are more fearful and susceptible to miraculous
 formsintheimagination).HenceWilliam(oftencited)says[Bees2.3.24],
 “It is the case with many people that many of the apparitions of the
 fantasy happen as a result of a melancholic496 disease. This happens
 to women especially, which also appears to be the case with visions
 and revelations. The reason for this is, as physicians know, the very
 nature of female souls, because their souls are more susceptible to lighter
 impression than are men’s.” He adds (same place), “I know that I have
 seen a woman who believed that she was being known from inside
 by the Devil and said she felt other unbelievable things. Occasionally
 women also imagine themselves to be pregnant from incubi, and their
 bellies swell up greatly. When the birthing time arrives, they deflate
 through the mere expulsion of a great deal of windiness. For ants’ eggs,
 when ingested in drink, cause unbelievable windiness and upset in
 human stomachs. Similar results are caused in the stomach by spurge
 berries497 and the berries of the tree called the black pine.498 It is very
 easy for a demon to cause similar and greater effects in the stomachs of
 humans.”
 This discussion has been added so that no one will very readily place
 credence in what womenfolk say but only about events to which experi
menta have lent credibility, like those about whom they499 have learned
 494 “Satisfaction” is the third element in the Catholic conception of penance (the other two being
 contrition and confession) and signifies the penalty undergone by the sinner in recompense for
 his misdeed.
 495 In its theological sense, “charity” (from the Latin for “fondness” and thus used to translate the
 Greek agape or “love”) is of broader meaning than is usual in normal English. According to
 Aquinas, it is a gift bestowed on all those possessing “grace that makes one pleasing to God”
 (Summa 2/2.8.4.Co.), is the virtue by which a person loves God, himself and his neighbors
 (Summa 2/2. 17.3.Co.), and is the mother of all proper virtues (Summa 1/2. 62.4.Co.). Here,
 then, the word signifies the full possession of all virtues.
 496 Melancholy was one of the four fluids (“humors”) of which the human body was thought to
 be composed, and an excess of any was considered a cause of ailment.
 497 The spurge is also known as “euphorbia,” and its berries have a laxative quality.
 498 Also known as the “Austrian pine.”
 499 Presumably, men.
Part II 161D–162A
 421
 through experience, in their own beds or as sleep companions in some
 other way,500 that such things are true.501
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Ch. 1:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.10]
 remedies for those who are affected with
 sorcery in the power of procreation
 Chapter Two
 WHILE women are sorcerers in greater numbers than men, as
 was shown in Part One502 of the work, men are more often affected by
 sorcery. The reason for this is the following. God gives more permission
 about the sexual act, through which the first sin is spread, than about
 the other humanacts, in the same waythat Healsodoesthroughsnakes,
 which better serve the purposes of enchantments than do other animals,
 because the snake is the first tool of the Devil. Furthermore, the sexual
 act can be affected by sorcery to a greater degree and more easily in the 162A
 case of a man than that of a woman. Hence, the proposition is proven.
 Indeed, whatwasdiscussedisobvious.Sincethedemoncanactonthe
 power of procreation by five methods and these methods are brought
 about more quickly in men, the remedies to be applied against each
 should be described according to their feasibility. A man who has been
 made faulty in this power should note under which method the sorcery
 affecting him is listed.
 TherearefivemethodsaccordingtoPeterdePaludeinhisCommentary
 on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 34 (“On the procedure for this sorcery”).
 Asaresultofhisbeingaspirit,thedemonhaspoweroverabodilycreature
 with God’s permission, and especially over movement in location as a
 result of the condition of his nature, so that he blocks or promotes that
 motion. Hence, through this power he can impede the bodies of a man
 and woman from approaching each other, either directly or indirectly.
 He does so directly when he removes one from the other or does not
 500 Thesense is not self-evident, but it appears to mean that the men may find this out either in the
 women’s own beds or when the women are sleeping with these men in a different bed, which
 may be a coy way of referring to fornication elsewhere.
 501 The entire final clause is poorly composed, but this seems to be the sense.
 502 40A–45A.
422
 The Hammer of Witches 162A–C
 162B
 162C
 allow the onetoapproachtheother, andindirectly when hecreates some
 impediment or when he places himself in between them in an assumed
 body. This happened to a pagan youth, who had betrothed himself to
 an idol and nonetheless contracted a marriage with a young woman.
 Because of this he was unable to know her, as was explained above.503
 The second method is when he inflames a man with yearning for one
 woman and makes him frigid504 about another. He could cause this
 secretly through the application of certain plants and other things that
 he knows very well to be effective at this. The third method is when he
 throwsaman’sorawoman’sfacultyofestimationintoconfusion,thereby
 rendering one person hateful to the other, because, as was explained
 above in Part One505 of the work, he can make an impression on the
 imagination.Thefourthmethodistorepressthehardnessofthemember
 that is necessarily required for fruitfulness. The fifth methodistoimpede
 the sending of spirits to the organs in which the virtue of moving resides,
 as if cutting off the seed’s paths to prevent it from descending to the
 vessels of procreation or being extracted or ejected.506
 If someone says, “I don’t know by which method the sorcery inflicted
 on meiscategorized. What I do know is that I lack the power of procre
ation with respect to my wife,” the following response can be given. If
 he is potent towards other women but not his wife, then it is categorized
 under the second method, since he would be made certain of the first
 method by a succubus demon, that is, that he was being deceived by
 incubusandsuccubusdemons.507 Ifhedoesnotconsiderhiswifehateful
 and yet cannot knowherwhilebeingperfectly capable of knowing other
 women,thenonceagainitiscategorized under the second method. If he
 considers her hateful and cannot know her, then it is categorized under
 the second and the third method. If he does not consider her hateful
 but does not have the strength of the member508 even though he would
 like to know her, then it is categorized under the fourth method. If he
 has the strength of the member but is incapable of emitting seed, then
 it is categorized under the fifth.
 503 9B.
 504 See n. 431.
 505 61B.
 506 A clumsy way to indicate the creation and emission of semen.
 507 This explanation is not clearly composed. The idea seems to be that the first method can be
 excluded in the absence of a succubus demon.Presumablythewholepointofademonadopting
 the wife’s body is to avoid being detected, but perhaps what is meant is that if it is found out that
 a succubus demon is involved, this procedure falls under the first method (and “by a succubus
 demon” means “by his involvement”).
 508 I.e., cannot get an erection.
Part II 162C–163A
 423
 Themethodofhealingwillbemadeclearwhenitisexplainedwhether
 these methods of sorcery can affect those in and those out of Char
ity equally. In fact, with the exception of the fourth method, which
 can happen very rarely to someone who is in a State of Grace and
 Charity,509 theycannot,whichisexplainedasfollows.(Thereadershould
 make the presumption that we are speaking of the conjugal act between
 a married couple, because otherwise the implication would be differ
ent,510 since every sexual act outside of marriage is a mortal sin and
 is practiced only by those who are outside of Charity.) On the basis 162D
 of the tradition of all Holy Scripture, it must be asserted that demons
 are given more permission by God to act savagely against sinners than
 against the righteous (one reads that Job, a most righteous man, was
 stricken, but this did not take place exclusively in terms of the power
 of procreation or even directly on it),511 and therefore it should be said
 that when any married couples happen to be affected by such acts of
 sorcery, it is a sign that either both persons or one of them is outside of
 Charity.
 In fact, the basis for this is derived from the Scriptures both by author
ity and by reason. For the angel said to Tobias, “The demon receives
 power over those who devote themselves to lust” [Tobias 6:17], and
 the effect demonstrated the truth of this, since he had killed the seven
 husbands of the virgin Sarah [Tobias 3:8].512 Likewise, Cassian in his
 Conference with the Fathers [8:19]: “St. Anthony declares that in no way
 can the demon assault someone’s mind or body unless he first deprives
 it of all saintly thoughts and renders it empty and bereft of spiritual
 contemplation.” These words clearly can be applied to bodily sorcery
 affecting the entire body totally, since Job was not bereft of God’s Grace,
 though he was stricken with such sorcery, but they can be applied to
 specific circumstances, that is, when a specific act of sorcery befalls 163A
 the body because of some sin (in fact this can only be the sin of sexual
 immorality).513
 509 See n. 495.
 510 I.e., the implication would be that there is a lack of grace and charity.
 511 See n. 513.
 512 See n. 23.
 513 This distinction between “total” and “specific” sorcery has been introduced into the original
 passage. The source (Nider) states that God generally grants the devil greater power over sinners
 than over the righteous, but allows that the devil was granted power over the righteous Job.
 The author of the present passage apparently disliked this concession, and revised it so that the
 exception now applies to the part of the body over which the devil has power. Thus, those who
 have been affected only in the power of procreation must not be in a state of grace, the example
 of Job notwithstanding.
424
 The Hammer of Witches 163A–B
 Reason.514 As has been stated, because of the foulness of that act and
 becausetheFirstSin515 wasspreadthroughit,Godgivesmorepermission
 with reference to this than the other human acts. Accordingly, even in
 a married couple, when they are bereft of God’s help because of sin, He
 gives more permission for them to be affected by sorcery in connection
 withthepowerofprocreation.Ifsomeoneaskswhatsortofsinstheseare,
 it can be said that since the sins of sexual immorality that exist among
 married people are various according to a passage of Jerome [Against
 Jovinianus 1.49] (it is stated in the text, “One who is an overly ardent
 lover of his own wife is an adulterer”), and since lovers of this kind are
 moreoftenaffected by sorcery in the areas mentioned above, the Church
 has two sorts of remedies. One procedure is followed in the forum of
 the law, the other in the forum of the conscience.
 163B
 Theformer. If it is claimed in court that impotence had been inflicted
 through sorcery, then a distinction is to be made on the basis of whether
 such impotence is temporary or permanent. If temporary, it forms no
 impediment, and it is presumed to be temporary in a situation where
 a couple, who are living together and making an effort516 to the best
 of their abilities, can be healed within the space of three years, either
 through the Sacraments of the Church or through other remedies. If,
 on the other hand, they are not healed with any remedy, the impotence
 is henceforth judged to be permanent.517 This impediment either pre
cedes the contraction and consummation of the marriage, in which case
 it impedes the contraction and dissolves the marriage once it is con
tracted, or it follows the contraction but not the consummation of the
 marriage, which is a common method of affecting men with sorcery
 when they reject their girlfriends. In this instance, girlfriends, who have
 been rejected as partners in marriage and cheated, inflict acts of sorcery
 on the men so that they cannot couple with other women.518 In such
 a case, as some say, the impediment dissolves a marriage already con
tracted unless the couple wish to live together in sexual abstinence, as
 did Mary and Joseph.519 Such people have the Canon on their side.
 514 I.e., an explanation based on logic rather than the authority of scripture previously cited.
 515 I.e., original sin.
 516 I.e, to have sex.
 517 This distinction is not expressed in a logical manner. What is meant is that until three years
 have passed, the impediment is presumed to be temporary, and if the problem remains after
 three years of legitimate efforts to cure it, then it is judged to be permanent.
 518 See 94C, 136A–B.
 519 Despite references in the gospels to Jesus’ siblings, notions of Mary’s purity led to the devel
opment in antiquity of the doctrine that she and Joseph never had sex, even after the birth of
 Jesus. This basic Catholic tenet was accepted by the mainline leaders of the Reformation (like
 Luther and Zwingli) but has been abandoned by most Protestants since then.
Part II 163B–D
 425
 For it says (33,Q. 1 [Decretum 2.33.1. Part 1 §1]) that a marriage is
 consummated by the duty (that is, “of the flesh”) as the gloss says. A
 little bit later it says that before consummation the impossibility of per
forming the duty dissolves the bond of marriage, but if it follows the
 consummation of the marriage, it does not dissolve the matrimonial
 bond.
 Many other notes are made by the Doctors. Since these are not 163C
 specifically relevant to the present investigation and are noted in various
 writings of the Doctors where they treat the impediment caused by sor
cery, this materialshouldbeomittedhere.If,however,someoneraisesthe
 difficulty about the way in which that act can be impeded in respect to
 one womanandnot another, Bonaventure answers [Sent. 4.34.2.2.Ra4],
 “This is either because the fortune-teller520 summoned the Devil for
 this in respect to a specified person or because God does not give His
 permission for an impediment in respect to just any person. In this case,
 there is an underlying hidden judgment of God, as in the case of the
 wife of Tobias.” How the Devil could do this is clear from the foregoing.
 Bonaventure says at this point, that he impedes the power of procreation
 not by harming the organ with an internal impediment but by imped
ing the use of it with an external impediment (such an impediment is
 caused not by nature but by art, and in this way he can make an imped
iment in connection with one woman and not the others) or by taking
 away the excitement of lustful desire towards that woman or another
 through his own virtue or through a plant or stone or some hidden
 nature. In this Bonaventure is in reasonable agreement with the words of
 Peter.
 TheremedyoftheChurchintheforumoftheconscienceisrelatedin
 33,Q. 7“Si per sortiarias”: “If through the arts of magicians or sorcerers 163D
 sexual intercourse sometimes does not ensue through the permission of
 God’s hidden and just judgment and through the preparations of the
 Devil,thosetowhomsuchthingshappenshouldbeurgedtomakeagen
uine confession of all their sins to God and a priest with a contrite heart
 andahumbledspirit, and to makesatisfaction to the Lord with plentiful
 tears, generous alms-giving, prayers and fastings.” In these words it is
 noted that such things happen only because of sins and only to those
 outside of the state of Charity. The text continues, “The ministers of
 the Church should bring about a cure through the exorcisms and the
 other sorts of protection offered by the Church’s medicine, to the extent
 520 This is just a synonym in Latin for “magician.”
426
 The Hammer of Witches 163D–164B
 granted by the Lord, Who healed Abimelech and his house through the
 prayers of Abraham.”521
 164A
 164B
 Hence, we can say in summation that there are five remedies that can
 be lawfully used on people affected by sorcery in this way: pilgrimage
 to the shrines of Saints; confessing one’s sins there with true contrition;
 repetition of the Sign of the Cross and of devout prayer; lawful use
 of exorcism through sober words (how this is done will be explained
 below);522 and the cautious removal of the device for sorcery (relevant
 to this is the previous discussion about the count who had been unable
 to know the virgin he had married for three years).523
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Ch. 2:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5]
 remedies for people affected by sorcery in terms
 of irregular love or hatred
 Chapter Three
 LIKE sorcery in the powerofprocreation, infatuation and hatred
 are caused in the will. It is a good idea to trace, first, its cause and, then,
 the remedies for it, to the extent that this is possible.
 Infatuation or irregular love on the part of one sex towards the other
 can arise from three causes: sometimes merely from incautious looking,
 sometimes only from a temptation made by demons, and sometimes
 from the sorcery of nigromantics and sorceresses together with demons.
 Regarding the first, it says in James 1[:14–15], “Every single person is
 tempted, beingledastray andenticedbyhislustful desiring. Then, when
 his lustful desiring has conceived, it gives birth to sin. When the sin is
 consummated, it begets death.” In this way, after Sichem saw Dinah as
 she was going out to visit the women of the area, he fell in love with
 her, seized her and slept with her, his soul becoming glued to her (Gen.
 34[:4]). According to the gloss, “This is what happens to a sick soul when
 it places less importance on its own affairs and looks after another’s. It is
 521 InGen.20,GodbecomesangrywithKingAbimelechfortakingSarah,thewifeofAbraham,and
 makes Abimelech’s women barren. After Sarah is returned, Abraham intercedes on Abimelech’s
 behalf with God, who restores the women’s fertility.
 522 170D–179A.
 523 See 95A–95C.
Part II 164B–D
 427
 led astray by habit and in single unity an agreement with unlawful acts
 is made.”
 Thesecond cause arises from temptation originally made by demons.
 In this way, Ammon fell in love with his very beautiful sister Tamar and
 became so completely besotted with her that he grew sick because of
 his love for her (2 Chron. 13[:1–2]). He could not have been so entirely
 corrupted in his mind as to rush into the very great crime that is incest
 if he had not been severely tempted by the Devil. The Book of the Saintly
 Fathers is also full of stories of this kind of love. It reports that certain
 Fathers who had removed every temptation towards carnal love from
 themselves in the wilderness were still sometimes tempted more than
 canbebelievedbytheloveofwomen.Hence,in2Cor.12[:7]theApostle
 says, “I have been given a goad for my flesh, the angel of Satan, who is to
 thrash me.” Here, the gloss says, “‘Through temptation by lust was the
 goad given,’ as some say. But temptation to which assent is not given is
 not a sin but an opportunity for practicing virtue.” This is understood 164C
 in terms of temptation from the Devil and not from the flesh, which
 is a venial sin even if agreement is not given to it. It is possible to read
 assorted illustrations about these topics in various sources.
 Asforthethird(that love felt for a mistress derives from acts of sorcery
 on the part of demons and sorceresses), the possibility of this is treated
 at length above in the questions of Part One (“Whether demons are able
 to change or incite minds of humans toward love or hatred”).524 It is
 also proven through various deeds and events discovered by us. Indeed,
 among all the varieties of sorcery it is considered very great525 because of
 its frequency.
 If it is asked, “Peter is infatuated with love for Such-and-Such and
 so on, but it isn’t known whether this is through the first, second or
 third method,” the response is that the working of demons can create
 hatredbetweenspousesalongwiththecrimeofadultery,butinsituations
 when someone is so ensnared in and inflamed with the venom of carnal
 love that no shaming, blows, words or actions can force him to stop,
 when someone often sends away a beautiful wife and clings to a very
 ugly woman, and when they cannot even sleep during the night-time 164D
 but are so deranged that they have to walk through every trackless area
 (noblemen, prelates and other rich men are very often tangled up in
 524 46A–52B.
 525 The text says the exact opposite (“very insignificant”), but other passages (95C–D, 136A–B)
 suggest that this motive is far from insignificant, and the requisite emendation (changing
 minimum to nimium) is easily justified.
428
 The Hammer of Witches 164D–165A
 such wretched affairs), this is certainly the “womanly time” about which
 Hildegard foretold, as Vincent reports in the Mirror of History [31.108],
 that it would not last as long as it has.526 For it has subsisted down to the
 present time, since the world is now full of adultery, especially among
 the noblemen. And what a task it is to write about remedies for those
 whoshunremedies! Yet, in order to satisfy the pious reader, let us discuss
 some of them briefly.
 165A
 Asforinfatuationwithoutsorcery,Avicennalaysoutsevenremedies527
 for the situation where it makes a person sick, but this is not especially
 germane to our investigation except to the extent that these remedies
 are mystically useful for a faint soul. He says in Bk. 3528 that on the basis
 of variation in the pulse when the beloved is named, which is where
 the root of the sickness lies, there should be union in marriage, if the
 law allows, because they are cured when nature is complied with. Or
 medicines that he describes and teaches about in that passage should be
 applied. Or the sick manshoulduselawfulmeanstoturnhisattachment
 from what he loves to loving something that he ought to prefer to it. In
 this way, he will shun the presence of what he loves, since his mind is
 distracted. Or if he is susceptible of correction, he should also be made
 miserable, it being impressed upon him that the work of love is the
 height of wretchedness. Or people should be sent to him to vilify the
 beloved’s body, character and habits as far as the truth and God allow,
 transforming the beloved’s appearance into something base or ugly. Or,
 f
 inally, the infatuated should at least be kept busy with difficult tasks or
 distracting duties.
 In truth, while the animal man is healed through remedies of this
 kind, they reform the inner man (each being interpreted individually
 in a spiritual sense).529 Let the law of the mind be obeyed rather than
 that of nature. Let him turn his affection to eternal pleasures. Let him
 remember how transient his delights are and how eternal his torments.
 Let him seek pleasures in that life where they begin without having any
 526 A predication made in 1188, according to Vincent, by the female St. Hildegard of Bingen, who
 is here apparently considered to be a man (presumably, the author knew nothing more about
 her than was found in the source).
 527 Nider, the source for this passage, indicates that the first of these seven remedies is to learn
 the name of the person for whom the infatuation is felt through the confession of the person
 infatuated or through a change in the infatuated person’s pulse rate when the name of the
 infatuator is mentioned. Here, this remedy has been converted into a pre-requisite to the
 others, which reduces the number of remedies to six.
 528 Ultimate source unknown.
 529 Here, the seven practical remedies borrowed from Nider are reinterpreted in a metaphorical
 religious sense.
Part II 165A–C
 429
 ending. The man who refuses to love that life will lose it and not find
 it, being consigned to the eternal flames. Here are the three losses that
 result from the love felt for a mistress!
 As for infatuation that results from sorcery, in this instance too it
 is not inappropriate to apply the remedies discussed in the preceding
 chapter, especially exorcism through Holy Words, which the person 165B
 affected by sorcery can use on himself in the following way. Every day
 he should summontheholyangel delegated by God to protect him, and
 with genuine confession he should make frequent visits to the shrines of
 the Saints, especially those of the Most Blessed Virgin. Without a doubt
 he will be freed. How reprehensible it is that men with beards530 should
 decline to protect themselves, casting aside the gifts of nature and the
 weapons of the virtues! For it is very often the case that little girls have
 used these weapons to repel acts of sorcery of this kind with invincible
 infirmity. In commendation of these girls, let us bring forward one of
 many illustrations.
 In a certain country village near Lindau in the diocese of Constance,
 there was a grown-up virgin who had a beautiful face and a refined char
acter. Captivated at the sight of her, a certain man, who was unreliable
 in character and virtually in name alone a cleric (would that he were
 not a priest!), was unable to conceal the wound suffered by his mind
 any further and went to the workplace of this virgin. First presenting
 himself with respectable words through the demon’s snares, he finally
 daredanattempttocajole(onlywithwords)thevirgin’sspiritintoloving
 him. Perceiving this at God’s instigation, she kept her mind and body
 unharmedandansweredmanfully, “Mylord, do not visit my homewith
 such words. Otherwise, you will meet with rejection when modesty 165C
 intervenes.” To this he said, “You may decline to cherish me now when
 advised to with sweet words, but not long from now you will love me
 under the compulsion of works, I promise you.” This infamous man
 was suspected of being an enchanter and of practicing sorcery, but the
 virgin considered these words to be hot air. At that time she felt within
 her not even a spark of carnal love for the man, but after the passage
 of a short time she began to have erotic imaginings about him. Perceiv
ing this, she fled through God’s inspiration to the Mother of Mercy531
 and besought her most devoutly to get help from her Son. Immedi
ately, she sought respectable company and began a pilgrimage to The
 530 I.e., adults; see 165C–D.
 531 I.e., the Virgin Mary.
430
 The Hammer of Witches 165C–166A
 Hermitage532 (suchbeingthenameofachurchinthisdiocesethatisded
icated in honoroftheMiraculousMother).ThereshemadeSacramental
 Confessionsothattheevilspiritwouldnotbeabletomakeanydiscovery
 in her, and after she poured forth prayers to the Mother of Piety, every
 contrivance of the Foe533 instantly stopped and he never touched her
 again.
 165D
 166A
 Yet, there still remain bearded men who are importunately proposi
tioned by sorceress womenfolk about such things, as if these men could
 in no way restrain themselves from being infatuated with them. But
 however much they may feel themselves being assailed without provo
cation through the allurements of the imagination, when they resist like
 men, the use of the means of protection discussed above allows them to
 overcome all the Devil’s stratagems.
 Here is a true reflection of this battle. There was a very rich young
 man in the town of Innsbruck, and no one could even describe in
 writing the extent to which he was assailed by sorceresses. Yet, he always
 maintained a manly spirit and escaped unharmed through the remedies
 mentioned above. Hence, it is just to reach the conclusion that the
 remedies mentioned above are a very sure protection against a disease
 of this kind, so that whoever uses these weapons will most certainly be
 freed.
 What is understood about irregular love should also be understood
 about hatred, since the doctrine about opposites is the same,534 but since
 thereis somedifferenceinthemannerofinflictingthesorcery,theperson
 who is hated ought to require a different remedy. If he is an adulterer,
 the man whofeels the hatred and carries it in his heart cannot be readily
 returned to feeling love for his wife, even through pilgrimages.
 It has beendiscovered throughtheaccountsofsorceresses that the acts
 of sorcery that cause hatredare brought about by meansofsnakes. Since
 the snake was the first tool of the Devil and as a curse on it received
 the enmity between it and woman, sorceresses constantly contrive to
 bring about such enmities with snakes by placing the skin or the head
 of a snake under the threshold of the doorway to a room or the house.
 For this reason, with reference to their own dwellings or instances when
 they live in someone else’s house, all the corners of the house should be
 thoroughly examined and restored as far as is possible.535
 532 See n. 452.
 533 I.e., the Devil.
 534 Another scholastic aphorism.
 535 The Latin is poorly composed here, but for the sense see 175A.
Part II 166A–B
 431
 When it was said that people affected by sorcery are able to exorcize
 themselves,536 it is certainly understood that they can carry Holy Words,
 blessings and chants with themontheirnecksiftheydonotinfactknow
 how to read or to bless themselves. How these acts are to be carried out
 will be explained in the following.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 3:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.5, 6]
 remedies for those from whom the male member
 has been removed through the magical art
 and for the instances when humans are
 transformed into animals
 Chapter Four
 AS for those upon whom an illusion is played by the art of con
juring, so that they think that they lack the male member or have been
 transformed into animals, the remedies by which they can be helped 166B
 can be deduced quite evidently from the foregoing.537 Since such people
 are altogether deprived of God’s Grace, this being the initial element
 that lays the foundation in the case of those affected by sorcery, it is not
 possible for a healing balm to be applied while the weapon remains in
 the wound. Hence, it is a good idea that above all a reconciliation with
 God should be effected through true confession.
 Next, as was discussed above in Chapter Seven538 of Part One539 of the
 work, such appendages are never in reality torn or separated from the
 body but are merely hidden with reference to the senses of touch and
 sight through art of conjuring, and it was also explained that illusions of
 this kind are not readily played on those in a state of Grace, either in an
 active or a passive way,540 so that the appendages would be taken away
 from them or they would be deluded in their power of sight as if the
 members had been taken away from others. Therefore, the remedy is
 536 165A–B.
 537 162C–163D.
 538 115D–116D.
 539 I.e., Q. 1 of Pt. 2.
 540 I.e., an “active” delusion played on the senses of a person with reference to himself or a “passive”
 one played on the senses of others in their perception of him; see 117C–D.
432
 The Hammer of Witches 166B–C
 166C
 also stated in that chapter along with the disease itself: as far as possible
 they should reach a friendly settlement with the sorceress.541
 Finally, regarding those who think that they have been transformed
 into animals, it should be known that this sort of sorcery is not practiced
 in the kingdoms of the West in the same way that it is in those of the
 East.542 (Understand “in terms of other people,” though in terms of the
 sorceresses’ own person it has been seen quite often among us543 that
 the sorceresses have showed themselves to the eyes of viewers in the guise
 of animals, as was concluded above in Chapter Eight,544 and hence the
 remedies that will be related in Part Three of the work, which concerns
 the eradication of the sorceresses through the secular arm, would also be
 applicable.)
 HowEasternersremedysuchillusionsisexplainedasfollows.Wehave
 learned many things about these remedies through accurate accounts
 told by military friars of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem in Rhodes,545
 and in particular the following event took place in the city of Fama
gusta in the Kingdom of Cyprus.546 There is a port there, and when a
 certain ship that was laden with commercial goods put in, foreigners
 debarked from the ship so that the individual travelers could supply
 themselves with provisions.547 One of these was a hearty young man,
 who approached the house of a woman that was situated above the
 shore outside the city and asked the woman if she had eggs for sale. The
 woman saw that the hearty young man was a merchant from abroad,
 which meant that his disappearance would cause less suspicion among
 the locals. She said, “Wait a moment and you will get everything you
 541 115D.
 542 It seems that the distinction of “east” vs. “west” refers to the division of the Mediterranean into
 a Catholic sphere in the west and an Orthodox one in the east.
 543 I.e., westerners.
 544 118D–121A. This chapter deals with the method of transforming others into beasts, but there
 is no treatment of the issue of sorceresses transforming themselves (cf. the bizarre anecdote in
 87C).
 545 The Hospitallers were a military religious order associated with the crusades. They held Cyprus
 from 1291 to 1307.
 546 The island was seized from a Byzantine governor during the Third Crusade in 1191 and given
 to the exiled line of the kings of Jerusalem. In 1489, the island passed to the Venetians, from
 whom it was captured by the Ottoman Turks in 1572.
 547 This story, presumably of Genoese origin, is clearly a Christianized version of Apuleius’ Meta
morphoses, a pagan story composed in the second century after Christ. In the latter, the hero
 has an altercation with a sorceress, who transforms him into a donkey, though he retains his
 human mind. He then suffers various indignities as he tries to act like a human in the guise
 of an animal. In the end, he is restored to his original form through the redemptive powers of
 the goddess Isis. This tale was popular in the Middle Ages under the title Golden Ass (“golden”
 referring to its quality as a tale and “ass” to the appearance of the protagonist). This Christian
 version was to become a popular tale, but it is first attested here.
Part II 166D–167A
 433
 desire.” Locked inside the house, she caused a delay, and the young 166D
 manbegan to shout from the outside that she should finish his business
 as soon as possible to avoid making him miss his ship. Some548 woman
 then brought some eggs and gave them to the young man, telling him
 to return to her if he missed the ship. He hurried off at a quick run to
 the ship, which was on the shore, and before embarking, he undertook
 to eat the eggs549 and refresh himself since his fellow passengers had
 not yet arrived. An hour later he all of a sudden became mute and
 virtually senseless, as he himself would later relate. Wondering what had
 happened to him, he could not make a guess. When he then tried to go
 on board, the people who were waiting there beat him off with walking
 sticks. They all shouted, “Look, look! What’s up with the donkey? Curse
 you, beast! You don’t think you’re going on board, too, do you?” He was
 driven off in this way, and since he understood the words of the people,
 whostated that he was a donkey, the young manmulledthematter over.
 He began to think that he had been tainted with sorcery at the hands
 of the woman, particularly in light of the fact that he could not form a
 word, though he could understand everyone else. When he again tried
 to embark upon the ship, he was pummeled with heavier blows, and 167A
 with a bitter heart he had to stay behind and watch the ship depart.
 As he ran this way and that, he was necessarily treated by everyone as
 an animal, since everyone viewed him in their estimation as a donkey.
 Under compulsion, therefore, he returned to the house of the woman,
 and he served at her beck and call for more than three years to maintain
 his life. Doingnoworkwithhishandsapartfromcarryingthehousehold
 necessities consisting of wood and wheat, he also carried the things that
 had to be carted off like a beast of burden. The only consolation left to
 him wasthat while everyone else considered him a domestic animal, the
 sorceresses, whether gathered as a group or individually, recognized him
 as a true human when hebehaved like a human in his walk, bearing and
 deportment.
 If it is asked how the burdens were placed on him as if on a beast
 of burden, it should be said that our judgment about this occurrence
 is clearly based on the stories that Augustine relates about the tavern
 women who turned their customers into beasts of burden (City of God,
 Bk. 18, Ch. 17) and about the father of Praestantius, who related that he
 548 This reference to “some” woman is odd, in that the narrative elsewhere seems to speak as if only
 a single woman was involved, though at the end of this paragraph there is an isolated mention
 of “sorceresses” (the Latin form is not gender-specific and could signify “sorcerers”).
 549 Presumably, hard-boiled.
434
 The Hammer of Witches 167A–C
 167B
 167C
 hadbeenanag(horse)550 and hadhauled grain with the other animals.551
 Hence, three sorts of illusion were played through the art of conjuring.
 First, in terms of the humans seeing the young man not as a human
 but as a donkey, there was an explanation above in Chapter Eight552
 about how demons can easily cause this. Second, these burdens were
 not an illusion. Instead, when they surpassed the young man’s strength,
 the demon would carry them invisibly. Third, when the young man
 interacted with other people, he seemed to himself to be a domestic
 animal, but only in his imagination and faculty of estimation, which
 are attached to bodily organs, and not in his reason, which was not
 hobbled by God so that he would not understand that he was a human.
 Instead, the art of conjuring played a trick, so that he was considered
 to be an animal in his estimation according to the explanation about
 Nebuchadnezzar in that passage.553
 Three years passed in this manner, then one day in the fourth year, he
 entered the city before noon while the woman was following far off, and
 it happened that the young man affected by sorcery in this way passed a
 church in which Divine Service was being celebrated. Hearing the bell
 (Divine Service is carried out in that kingdom by the Latin rite and not
 the Greek),554 he turned toward the church for the Elevation of the Body
 of Christ. Not daring to enter for fear of being driven off with blows,
 on the outside he placed his rear knees and lower legs on the ground,
 and joining together his front feet, that is, his hands, he raised them
 up, viewing the Sacrament at the point of the Elevation from what was
 thought to be a donkey’s head. When certain merchants from Genoa
 saw this wonder in astonishment, they followed the donkey. While they
 were discussing the miraculous work among themselves, lo and behold
 the sorceress was driving the donkey along with a staff. Because, as has
 already been stated, acts of sorcery of this kind are very often practiced
 in those regions, at the insistence of the merchants the donkey was
 taken into custody along with the sorceress. After being interrogated
 and exposed to questioning under torture, she confessed the crime and
 promised that she would restore the youth to his own form so that he
 550 The difference here is one of style rather than substance; the low-register term caballus (strictly
 speaking a “nag”) came to replace the standard form equus as the normal word for “horse” in
 later Latin (and in the Romance languages).
 551 For these stories, see 119D–120A.
 552 120A–B.
 553 120B.
 554 I.e., because the island was ruled by a western dynasty, the religious establishment was Catholic
 rather than Eastern Orthodox, as one might expect since the local inhabitants were Greek.
Part II 167C–D
 435
 could return home. Upon release, she returned home and the young
 manwas restored to his original form. Arrested again, the sorceress paid
 the due punishment for the crimes she had committed, and the youth
 returned home in joy.
 remedies for those under siege as a result
 of sorcery
 Chapter Five
 THEREwas sufficient explanationabove(ChaptersNineand
 Ten)555 about how demons sometimes inhabit humans in substance,
 and about the reasons why this happens: not only for one’s own serious
 crimes but sometimes for one’s own greater merit or for someone else’s 167D
 insignificant misdemeanor or for one’s own venial sin or for someone
 else’s serious sin or for someone else’s own556 crime. For these reasons
 different people are possessed in different ways, some to a greater degree,
 others less, as Nider recounts in his Ant Hill [5.11]. It is no wonder if,
 through sorcery or at the insistence of a sorceress, a demon, with God’s
 permission,inhabitsahumaninsubstanceinthemannerexplainedthere
 (which should be taken to mean “in substance”). The illustrations cited
 there and the freeing of the priest from Bohemia have demonstrated
 the remedies by which they can be freed, that is, through the exorcisms
 of the Church and also by true contrition (confession) in a situation
 where someone had been assailed for a mortal sin. It is also explained
 in Nider’s discussion that in addition to these two remedies three others
 (Holy CommunionintheEucharist,visiting holy places and the prayers
 of good men, and absolution from excommunication) also are able to
 lend assistance. It is good idea to cite this discussion too, since not
 everyone has access to the necessary treatises.
 Cassian (First Conference, on the Abbot [7.30]) says the following
 about Holy Communion. “We have no recollection that Sacrosanct
 Communionhandedovertospiritsofevilwasforbiddenbyourelders.557
 555 121A–130D.
 556 An error in the adaptation of the source (Nider); the text should read for “one’s own great
 crime.”
 557 This sentence is a misreading of the source (Nider), who actually said, “I have no recollection
 that Sacrosanct Communion was forbidden by our elders to those handed over to spirits of
 evil.” (The change in the Latin is minor, and may simply reflect an error of transcription at
 some stage.)
168A
 436
 The Hammer of Witches 168A–B
 Rather, they even thought that if possible, it should be given to them
 every day since it is necessary to believe that it serves the purpose of
 cleansing and protecting the body and spirit. When taken by a person,
 it burns with a certain fire the spirit that is lying in wait in his limbs
 or trying to lurk in them and puts that spirit to flight. This is how we
 recently saw Abbot Andronicus healed. The spirit will leap at the person
 offended,558 when he sees that that person has been removed from God’s
 medicine. For the further away he perceives him to be removed from
 the spiritual remedy, the more harshly and frequently will he attempt to
 afflict him.”
 168B
 Again, he says of these remedies in the same passage, “Here there
 should be unshakeable belief in two things. First, no one at all can be
 tempted by these spirits without God’s permission. Second, everything
 imposed upon us by God, whether it seems grim or joyous, is inflicted
 for our benefit as if by a most pious father or a most merciful physician.
 Therefore as if handed over to school teachers, these people are being
 humbled so that when they leave this world, they will be either trans
ferred to the other life in a more cleansed state or punished with penal
 rigor. According to the Apostle, they have been handed over to Satan
 in the present life for the death of the flesh, so that their spirits will be
 saved on the day of Our Lord, Jesus Christ [1 Cor. 5:4–5].”
 At this point, a doubt arises. When the Apostle says, “Let man test
 himself and in this way eat of that bread” [1 Cor. 11:28], how can those
 under assault take Communion when they do not have use of their
 reason? St. Thomas gave the answer to this in Third Part, Quest. 80
 [Summa 3.80.9], making the following distinction about all those who
 are out of their minds. “There are two ways in which people are said not
 to have use of their reason. In one way, they have a feeble use of their
 reason, and in this way someone who sees poorly is said to be unseeing.
 Because such people can conceive some devotion for this Sacrament, it
 should not be denied to them. In the other way, some who are said not
 to have use of their reason have been in this state continually since birth,
 and this Sacrament should not be given to such people, because the
 devotion to this Sacrament has made no progress at all in them. Others
 have not always lacked the use of reason, and in that case if devotion for
 this Sacrament was evident in them in the earlier period when they were
 558 Here there is a meaningless deviation from the source (Nider) that involves a simple change of
 oneletter (a mistake that could beattributed to theauthor’s text of Nider, an error of adaptation,
 or a slip by the compositor). Nider reported that Cassianus said that the spirit would “leap at
 the offense,” a not entirely pellucid expression.
Part II 168B–D
 437
 in control of their minds, it ought to be given to them at the moment of
 death, unless there happens to be some fear that they may throw it up or
 spit it out. Hence, one reads from the Acts of the Council of Carthage
 (this is contained in 26,Q.6, [Decretum 2.26.6.8]), ‘If someone seeks
 repentance during illness, and it happens that while the priest who has
 been summoned is coming, the person has been overwhelmed by the 168C
 illness so that he becomes mute or goes insane, let those who heard
 him bear witness, and if it is thought that he will promptly die, let him
 be reconciled through the laying on of hands and let the Eucharist be
 poured into his mouth.’ The same principle applies to baptized people
 who are being harassed bodily by unclean spirits and to others who are
 out of their minds.”
 He adds in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk. 4, Dist. 9 [Sent.
 4.9.1.5c.Ra2] that Communion should not be denied to those possessed
 by demonsunless it happens to be certain that they are being tormented
 bytheDevilfor somecrime.TothisPetrus dePaludeadds[Sent. 4.9.4.2]
 the following. “In this case, they should be considered as people to be
 excommunicated, who have been handed over to Satan.”
 From these statements it is clear that if some people are possessed
 by demons, even because of their own crimes, but, during intervals of
 sanity when they have use of their reason, they are converted from their
 sins or make due confession, then, since such people have been absolved
 before God, they should in no way be held back from Communion in
 the Most Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist.
 As for visiting saintly men or their devout prayers, the lives of the
 Saints are filled with examples of how people under assault are in fact
 powerfully freed by these means. For the merits of the saintly martyrs,
 confessors and virgins dictate the conquest of these evil spirits through
 the prayers and intercession of the Saints in their Heavenly Homeland,
 since the Saints conquered them on their spiritual journey on earth.
 It is likewise read that the devout prayers of such wayfarers559 on earth
 haveoftenobtainedtheliberationofthoseunderassault.Hence,Cassian
 (cited above) urges this: “If we hold this pronouncement, or rather faith,
 as described by me above, that everything is in fact done by the Lord
 for the benefit of souls and that all things are arranged for this, not only
 would we not despise these people at all but we would pray for them
 without stop as if for our own limbs and have sympathy for them with
 all our hearts and all our feeling.”
 168D
 559 See Pt. 1 n. 466.
438
 The Hammer of Witches 168D–169A
 Asforthelastway(absolvingsomeoneofexcommunication),itshould
 be known that this is neither common nor perhaps lawful except for
 someone who has authority and a special revelation or a reasonable
 presumption to the effect that someone is possessed because of the
 Church’s excommunication, just as the Apostle (1 Cor. 5) handed over
 the Corinthian fornicator, who had been excommunicated by himself
 and the congregation, to Satan for the death of his flesh, so that his
 spirit would be saved on the day of Our Lord, Jesus Christ, that is,
 as the gloss says, until his illumination through the Grace of Contri
tion or until his judgment. He also handed over to Satan the pseudo
doctors (Hymenaeus and Alexander) who had lost the Faith, so that
 169A
 they would learn not to blaspheme (1 Tim. 1[:20]).560 “The Apostle,”
 says the gloss, “possessed such power and had such Grace that he could
 hand over to the Devil by word alone those who deviated from the
 Faith.”
 Hence, in Commentary on Pronouncements, Dist. 18 [4.18.2.1b.Ra3],
 whereSt.Thomasrelatesthethreeresultsofexcommunication,theDoc
tor explains them as follows. “By the very fact that someone is deprived
 of the assistance provided by the Church, he suffers three sorts of harm
 because of the three things that someone achieves through the assistance
 provided by the Church. These things can increase Grace for those
 who have it or to earn it for those who do not. With reference to this,
 the Master561 says that Grace is withdrawn through excommunication.
 These things can also guard virtue, and with reference to this, the Mas
ter says that protection is withdrawn not because they are completely
 excluded from God’s providence, but because they are excluded from
 the providence that guards the sons of the Church more specifically. It is
 also able to defend them against the Foe.562 In reference to this, he says
 that greater power is granted to the Devil to act with savagery against
 him, both in body and in spirit. This is why in the time of the primi
tive Church,563 when it was necessary to attract people to the Church
 through signs, the Holy Spirit became manifest through a visible sign.
 Thus, the excommunicate was marked out by the Devil through bodily
 560 PaulbeginstheletterbysayingthatwhenhehadgonetoMacedonia,hehadinstructedTimothy
 to stay in Ephesus and keep an eye on certain people who were spreading what Paul took to be
 false doctrine. Apparently, Hymenaeus and Alexander had refused to heed Timothy’s warnings,
 and this “handing over” to Satan is Paul’s response. In typical medieval exegesis, this act is
 equated with the full procedure of excommunication, which was developed much later.
 561 Peter Lombard.
 562 I.e., the Devil.
 563 I.e., in the days before it became officially recognized by the Roman state under Constantine.
Part II 169A–C
 439
 harassment. It is also not inappropriate if the person who is not hopeless
 is given to the Foe, because he is not being given for damnation but for 169B
 correction, since it is in the power of the Church to save him from the
 Devil’s hand when it wants to.”
 If the exorcist absolves the person under assault conditionally,564 this
 does not seem inappropriate, but Nider goes on to say that the exorcist
 should take strong precautions against readily making presumptions
 about his powers or mixing a joke or game into the serious work of God
 or adding something superstitious or suspected of sorcery. Otherwise,
 he will hardly escape punishment, as is explained by illustrations.
 Regarding the first, St. Gregory has a story (Dialogues,Bk.1 [1.10.2])
 about a certain woman who contrary to her conscience asked for and
 received from her husband the repayment of the conjugal debt during
 the vigil of the dedication of the Church of St. Sebastian.565 Because
 she joined in the procession of the church contrary to her conscience,
 she was possessed and went insane in public. At the sight of this, the
 priest of the church took the cloth from the altar and covered her with
 it. The Devil at once attacked the priest, and because the priest wished
 to usurp something beyond his powers, he was forced in his harassment
 to recognize what he was.566
 As for the second point (that no one should make a joke about the
 office of being anexorcist, which concerns a Holy Order),Niderreports 169C
 that he saw in the convent567 of Cologne a friar who was fairly jocular
 in speaking but famous for the Grace of driving out demons. When
 this brother was constraining a demon in a body under assault within
 the monastery, the demon asked the brother where he should go. The
 brother rejoiced at this and as a joke said, “Go into my latrine!” The
 demon then departed. At night, when the brother wished to empty his
 bowels, the demon tormented him so savagely by the latrine, that it was
 only with difficulty that the friar saved his life.
 564 The expression ad cautelam seems to refer to the practice of granting absolution conditionally
 or provisionally. In the later Middle Ages, the practice arose of granting absolution on the
 condition that some provision had to be fulfilled (with reference either to the past or the future)
 in order to make it valid. As late as the fifteenth century, the validity of this practice was
 disputed, but it is now considered acceptable Catholic procedure.
 565 The “conjugal debt” is sexual intercourse, and it would seem that the woman considered it
 inappropriate to engage in sex on the night before the feast but did so anyway. It would seem
 that lack of scruple on the part of the husband allowed him to indulge in the sex without
 consequences.
 566 Apparently, the devil in his capacity as chastiser outranked the priest in his capacity as the
 shepherd of his flock. Hence, what the priest recognized himself to be was “inferior to the task.”
 567 I.e., of Dominicans.
440
 The Hammer of Witches 169C–D
 169D
 In addition, particular precautions should be taken to ensure that
 those under assault through sorceresses are not led to seek the protection
 of sorceresses. Hence, Gregory adds the following about the woman
 mentioned before.568 “Her relatives, who loved her in the flesh and in
 loving her were persecuting her, handed her over to sorceresses to get
 a remedy to regain her health. She was brought by them569 to a river,
 and when she was immersed in the water, she was buffeted with many
 incantations. Whenever one demon was supposed to be driven out, a
 legion570 entered in turn and now began to shout with their separate
 voices. Then the relatives made confession and in grief at their action
 brought her before St. Fortunatus the Bishop, who cured her completely
 with constant prayers and fasts.
 It has been said that exorcists ought to take precaution against adding
 anything superstitious or suspected of sorcery, and the exorcist could be
 doubtful as to whether he could also use certain plants or rocks that have
 not been blessed. Response. If the plants are blessed, so much the better.
 If they are not, for instance a certain plant called “devil’s flight,”571 or
 if someone uses the natures572 of stones, this will not be superstitious
 so long as he believes that these items are not directly compelling the
 demons by their own nature, since in that case he would fall into the
 error that the demons can similarly be compelled by other plants or
 words. Such is the erroneous claim of the nigromantics, who think that
 they achieve results through thenatural orinherentvirtues ofsuchitems.
 Hence, St. Thomas in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 7,
 last art. [actually, Sent. 2.7.3.2.Ra2] says, “It should not be believed that
 demons are subject to certain bodily virtues, and accordingly they are
 not forced by any incantations and acts of sorcery, except to the extent
 that a treaty is thereby entered into with them according to what is said
 in Isaiah 18 [actually, 28:15] (‘We have struck a treaty with death and
 568 169B.
 569 It is interesting that while the source (Nider) uses masculine forms for the relatives, here the
 author uses the specially feminine form of the pronoun “them.”
 570 Reference to the demon who told Jesus that his name was “Legion” (Mark 5:9, Luke 8:30),
 playing on the name of the Roman military unit.
 571 The plant Hypericum perforatum is popular in herbal cures, and its calming effects (it affects
 the central nervous system) have long been associated with driving off demons. Because of the
 red spots on some leaves and its red sap, the plant came to be associated with John the Baptist
 and for this reason is also known as St. John’s wort (plants collected on his feast day, June 24,
 were often kept in houses as apotropaic devices). Institoris mentions this plant in the context of
 items useful for application on the person of a suspected sorceress at the time of questioning in
 Nuremberg Handbook (9r), where he notes that the plant is known in German as “devil’s bite”
 (Teufelsbiß).
 572 Merely a synonym for “virtues.”
Part II 169D–170B
 441
 with hell have we made an agreement’), and in Job 40[:20] (‘Or will you
 be able to remove Leviathan from the hook?’ and so on).”573 Finally, he
 expounds Job as follows [Exposition on Job, 3.41.2]. “If someone rightly
 considers all the foregoing statements, they seem relevant to refuting 170A
 the presumptuous claim of the nigromantics, who strive to enter into
 an agreement with demons and to subordinate them to themselves or to
 constrain them in some way. Having therefore demonstrated that man
 cannot overcome the Devil by his own ability, God concludes by saying,
 ‘Put your hand over him. [40:27]’ Understand, ‘if you can,’ as if he were
 saying, ‘You cannot do so by your own virtue in any way.’ Yet, he is
 overcome by God’s virtue, and so he adds, ‘Remember the war’ [verse
 27], that is, ‘the one in which I fight against him.’ It can be said that
 the present tense is being used in place of the future, i.e., ‘I will fight
 on the Cross,’ at which time Leviathan will be captured with a hook,
 that is, with the divinity hidden under the bait of humanity, the Savior
 being a mere human.574 Hence, Job later says, ‘There is no power on
 earth that can be compared to it’ (Job 41[:24]). By this,” he says, “it is
 betokened that no bodily virtue can be equated with the power of the
 demon, which is the power of a purely spiritual nature.”
 Aperson under assault at the hands of a demon can be relieved indi
rectly through the virtue of a tune, as Saul was through David’s harp,575
 or through that of a plant or of someotherthing, this virtue being inher
ent to the item because of a natural property, and therefore such cures
 canbeused.Thatthiscanhappenisshownbyauthoritativepassagesand
 by reasonings. In 26, Q. 7,“Demonium sustinenti” it says, “It is lawful 170B
 to have rocks or plants without an enchantment” (these are the words of
 Jerome). Also, in the [Scholastic] History the Master576 treats the passage
 in Tobias 6[:8–9] where Rafael says to Tobias,577 “If you place over the
 coals a piece of the heart,” that is, of the fish that you caught, “its smoke
 scares off every sort of demon, from a man or a woman, so that it will
 no longer approach them.” He says, “Nor should we be amazed at this,
 since when a certain tree is burned, its smoke has the same force.” The
 573 The original text of Aquinas actually ends with the passage from Isaiah, and the one from
 Job has been added, but the passage of Nider adapted here seems to attribute both quotes to
 Aquinas.
 574 This sentence is the authors’ own, being intruded into their quote of Nider’s quotation from
 Aquinas. The words of Job are interpreted as if they were being spoken by Christ, a procedure
 typical of medieval biblical exegesis.
 575 38C–39D.
 576 Peter Comestor.
 577 See n. 23.
442
 The Hammer of Witches 170B–C
 passage also has a spiritual sense, which concerns the smoke of spiritual
 prayer. Albert speaks tothesameeffectonLuke9[CommentaryonLuke],
 as does Nicholas of Lyra on 1 Sam. 16 [Postilla Literalis]. Indeed, Paul
 of Burgos reaches the following conclusion on 1 Sam. 16 [Additions].
 Not only does it seem that it should be granted that people afflicted by
 demons can berelieved through certain things perceptible by the senses,
 but they can also be totally freed through certain things perceptible by
 the senses (understand “when they are not severely afflicted”). He proves
 this by reasoning.
 170C
 “Sincedemonscannotchangebodilymaterialinaccordancewiththeir
 will but by joining appropriate active elements to appropriate passive
 ones, as Nicholas says, by the same principle something perceptible by
 the senses can produce in the humanbodyaninclination that will make
 him unsuitable for the demon’s action. For instance, mania is especially
 conducive to the alienation of the mind according to the physicians and
 consequently to receiving the demon’s affliction. When this demonic
 suffering is completely healed, then if the active affliction of the demon
 withdraws, so would the passive affliction in the person possessed.
 The same could be said about the liver of the fish578 and the tune of
 David. While at first Saul merely was revived and felt better because of
 the tune [1 Sam. 16:23], the demon was completely driven out by it. This
 is why the text says, ‘The evil spirit withdrew from him.’ It would not
 be in accordance with the text to say that this happened as a result of
 David’s merit or through his prayers, because it is not plausible that the
 Scripture would keep silent about this, since what was said about him
 was particularly laudatory.”
 We wrote above in Question Five of Part One that Saul was freed
 because the virtue of the Cross was prefigured through the tightening
 of the veins of the body of Christ,579 and many statements are set out
 there that could serve the purpose of the present investigation, so let us
 simply conclude that the use of things perceptible by the senses in lawful
 exorcisms should not be rejected. Now it would be useful to say a few
 words about such exorcisms.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 5:
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.11, 12]
 578 I.e., the “heart” used by Tobias to protect himself against the demon.
 579 39C.
Part II 170D–171A
 443
 remedies through lawful exorcisms of the
 church against any illnesses inflicted by
 sorceresses, and the method of exorcizing
 people affected by sorcery
 Chapter Six
 170D
 AS was discussed above,580 sorceresses can inflict every kind of
 bodily illness, which makes it necessary to conclude as a general rule that
 whatever remedy consisting of words or other works can be used for the
 illnesses noted above are also suitable for any illnesses not expressly men
tioned in the foregoing (for instance when epilepsy or leprosy has been
 inflicted), and since lawful exorcisms are considered to be among the
 remedies consisting of words, exorcism was mentioned as a general cure.
 Three basic questions should be taken into consideration with regards
 to exorcism. The first is whether someone not holding the Order of
 being an Exorcist,581 like a layman (secular person), can lawfully exor
cize demons or a demon’s acts of sorcery. In this connection three other
 questions are added. The first is how exorcisms are lawful. The second
 is a treatment of the seven conditions that are necessary for someone
 to be able to carry chants and blessings with him.582 The third is how
 a disease is to be exorcized and the demon conjured away. The sec- 171A
 ond basic question is what is to be done when the Grace of health is
 not obtained through exorcisms. The third is a discussion of remedies
 consisting not of words but of works, together with solutions to certain
 arguments.
 As for the first. The following is the view of Doctor Thomas in Com
mentary on Pronouncements,Bk.4, Dist. 23 [actually, Sent. 4.24.2.2.Ra9].
 “In connection with the Order of being an Exorcist and of other minor
 orders, power is received when these orders are conferred, so that on
 the basis of the office someone can perform this or that function, for
 instance the performance of exorcisms. These can lawfully be performed
 bythosenotholdingtheorder,eventhoughsuchpeopledonothavethis
 ability on the basis of an office, just as the Mass can besaidinahousenot
 consecrated, although the consecration of a church is ordained for the
 purpose of the Mass being said in it. But this has more to do with Grace
 580 130B–145D.
 581 I.e., someone not ecclesiastically appointed to the post of exorcist, which is ranked among the
 “minor holy orders” (lesser functionaries) of the church.
 582 This is not in fact the second topic in the subsequent discussion (see n. 589).
444
 The Hammer of Witches 171A–C
 171B
 171C
 graciously given583 than the Grace of the Sacrament.”584 On the basis of
 these words it can be said that while it is good that an exorcist possessing
 the power to exorcize diseases caused by sorcery should cooperate in the
 freeing of the person affected by sorcery, nonetheless, at times devout
 persons can put such diseases to flight, either with or without exorcisms.
 There is a story about a poor little virgin who was therefore very
 devout. Whenafriendhadbeenverygreatlyinjuredinthefootthrough
 sorcery (this was made clear in the judgmentofthephysicians by thefact
 that he could not be healed with any medicines), this virgin happened
 to visit the sick man. He immediately asked her to use some blessing
 on his foot. She agreed and in silence merely used the Lord’s Prayer
 and the Apostles’ Creed, repeatedly making the Sign of the living Cross.
 Then the sick man immediately felt that he was healed and wanted to
 knowasaremedyfor future recurrences what sort of chanting the virgin
 had used on him. She answered, “O ye585 of weak faith! You do not
 cling to the approved divine practices of the Church, but frequently
 apply prohibited chants and remedies to your illnesses. The reason why
 you are seldom healed in the body is that you are always being harmed
 in the soul. But if you put your hopes in the effectiveness of lawful
 prayers and signs, you would often be healed very easily. All I used on
 you was the Lord’s Prayer and the Apostles’ Creed, and now you are
 healed.”
 Regarding this illustration, the question is raised whether other bless
ings and chantings (conjurations) through exorcisms are not effective,
 since it seems that they are being censured in this story. The response
 is that the virgin rejected only unlawful chants along with unlawful
 conjurations and exorcisms.
 Tofacilitate understanding this, it is necessary to consider where such
 chants derived their origin and how they came to be misused. Their
 beginning was very holy, but the Divine Names are depraved in the
 same way that all things are perverted at the urging of the Demon586
 through the mediation of demonsandevilhumans.Foraccordingtothe
 passage “In my name will you cast out demonic powers” (Mark 16[:17])
 the Apostles and Saints visited the sick and uttered prayers over them
 583 See n. 492.
 584 This is not in fact a direct quotation of Aquinas but an adaptation by the source (Nider).
 585 Since the second person plural is used in medieval Latin as a form of addressing one person (as
 in most European languages), it is not clear whether this quotation is meant to apply to all men
 or the sick man in particular, but the reference to Jesus’ frequent rebuke “O ye of little faith”
 (Matt. 6:30, 8:26, 16:8; Luke 12:28) suggests the former.
 586 I.e., the Devil himself.
Part II 171C–D
 445
 throughtheHolyWords.Then,inthesucceedingperiodoftime,devout
 priests performed similar acts in a ritual manner. This is why there can
 be found in churches that have become ancient very devout prayers and
 holy exorcisms that devout men once used without any superstition for
 all thepurposesthathumanscarryoutorhavecarriedoutonthem,justas
 even today there are foundlearned menandDoctorsofSacredTheology
 who visit the ill and use similar words on the sick (and not just those
 affected by demons). But, unfortunately, superstitious humans have by
 themselves invented many vain and unlawful words after the fashion of
 these lawful ones and use themtodayontheillandondomesticanimals,
 and out of laziness the clergy no longer use lawful words when visiting
 the ill. Hence, William Durand, the commentator on Raymund, says 171D
 that a regular priest587 or a discreet one588 or a layman or laywoman of
 outstanding way of life and proven discretion can perform such acts,
 uttering lawful prayer over the sick person, not over an apple or belt
 or the such like but over the sick people according to the passage of
 the Evangelist, “Upon the sick will they lay on their hands...” [Mark
 16:18]. Persons of this kind should not be prohibited from such acts,
 unless there happens to be some fear that after their example, other
 people, who are indiscreet and superstitious, might adopt a misuse of
 chanting, protecting themselves after the example of such people. It is,
 therefore, such superstitious chanters who are being censured by the
 virgin mentioned above. She said that those who consulted them had
 weak, or rather bad, faith.
 To facilitate this explanation, a question is raised about the words by
 which chants and blessings are considered lawful or superstitious, the
 methodbywhichtheyoughttobeused,andwhetherthedemonshould
 be conjured away and the disease exorcized.589
 587 I.e., a priest who was at the same time a monk or friar subject to the rule (regula) of his order.
 (As the Middle Ages progressed, the celebration of the mass played an increasingly prominent
 role in monastic life and monks were frequently ordained as priests as well.)
 588 I.e., a respectable member of the lower clergy, the presumption here being that the secular
 clergy were less reliable than monastic priests. (Criticism of the behavior of the lower secular
 clergy, who often were poorly paid and lacked much education, was a common theme among
 late-medieval reformers.)
 589 These three questions overlap with the three subordinate questions added to the first basic
 question in 170D–171A, but while the first and third correspond to the earlier scheme, the
 second has been changed. In 170D, the second additional question concerned the seven criteria
 for a lawful exorcism, but here this question is replaced with the topic of the valid method of
 using benedictions, this new scheme being followed in the subsequent discussion. The seven
 criteria are not marked out as a topic in 172A after the discussion of the lawfulness of exorcism,
 and the method of using chants as amulets is listed as the second question in 173D (this is
 presumably what is meant here by “the method by which they ought to be used”).
446
 The Hammer of Witches 171D–172B
 172A
 172B
 As for the first, what is not superstitious is said to be lawful in the
 practice of the Christian religion, and what is observed contrary to the
 limits of religion is said to be superstitious, as is noted in the gloss
 on the passage “Which things have a rationale in superstition” (Coll.
 2[:23]) (this is why it says there, “that is, religion practiced in evil
 and defective ways and circumstances”). Therefore whatever usurps the
 name“religion” through human tradition without the authority of some
 superior is in fact superstitious (for instance, adding hymns to the Mass
 for the Dead, interrupting the introduction, shortening the chanting
 of the Creed in the Mass or singing it in organum-style and not in a
 choir,590 not having a respondent in a Mass, and the like).
 Back to the question at hand. Now when some work takes place by
 the virtue of the Christian religion, for instance when someone wishes
 to help a sick person through some prayer or blessing involving Holy
 Words (this being the topic that we now have in mind), this person has
 to consider seven conditions, and if they are fulfilled, it is considered
 a lawful blessing.591 If it takes place in the manner of an adjuration by
 the virtue of the Divine Name and by the virtue of the famous works
 of Christ relating to His Nativity, Passion, precious Death and so on,
 through which even the Devil is defeated and cast out, these blessings,
 chants and exorcisms are called lawful and those who put them into
 practice can becalled exorcists, or lawful enchanters according to Isidore
 (“Thosewhocarryoutsomeartwithwordsarecalledenchanters”[Etym.
 8.9.15]).
 As can be gathered from the teaching of St. Thomas (Second of Sec
ond,Q. 93 [presumably, Summa 2/2.96.4]), the first condition to be
 considered is that the words should contain nothing that relates to the
 express or implicit invocation of demons. The meaning of “express” and
 “implicit” is clear. This is considered on the basis of intention and of
 working. The former encompasses the situation where the worker does
 not care whether in his work he has what he intends from God or from
 the Devil, so long as he achieves the desired end. The latter is when
 the work that he performs does not have any natural property of pro
ducing such an effect. About this property it is not only physicians and
 astrologers but also theologians who are able to judge the method by
 590 In the later medieval period, the custom arose of interspersing more complicated elaborations
 of the sung parts of the mass in the midst of traditional Gregorian chant sung in a choir, and the
 word organum signifies this “descant” style. Apparently, the author objected to such practices
 and preferred the older, simpler musical style.
 591 This topic is the second additional question added to the first basic question (170D).
Part II 172B–D
 447
 which the nigromancers make images, rings and stones that are affected
 through art and clearly have no natural tendency towards the effects that
 the nigromancers very often expect; hence, the Devil must be involved
 in their works.
 The second consideration is that the blessings (chants) should not
 contain any unknown words, because according to Chrysostom [Unfin
ished Work on Matthew 43] one should fear that some superstition may
 lurk in them.
 The third is that the subject matter of the words should contain no
 falsehood, because in that case no effect from it could be expected from
 God, sinceHe is not a witness to falsehood. Such is the usage of certain 172C
 old women in their chants, when they rhyme, “The Blessed Virgin the
 Jordan crossed and then St. Stephen her path passed and her then asked”
 (and many other idiocies).
 The fourth is that no inscribed vanities or characters should be
 included there apart from the Sign of the Cross. This is why the hand
books that are carried around by soldiers are censured.592
 Thefifth is that no hope should be placed in the way that these things
 are written or tied on amulets or in any such vanity that has nothing to
 do with reverence for God, because this would be judged superstitious.
 The sixth is that when the divine Words or Holy Scripture are tied
 on593 and uttered, the only thing that is respected are the sacred Words
 themselves and their meaning and the reverence for God or the divine
 virtue from which the effect is expected or the relics of the Saints from
 whomtheseeffects are secondarily expected (they are primarily expected
 from God).
 The seventh is that the effect that is expected should be entrusted to
 the will of God, Who knows whether health or tribulation is of greater
 or lesser benefit for the invoker or whether it is an obstruction for him.
 (This condition Thomas sets down in First of Second in the material 172D
 on Grace [Summa 1/2.109–113] and in Commentary on Pronouncements,
 Bk., Dist. 15 [Sent. 4.15.4.4a.Ra2].)
 Let us therefore conclude that if none of these conditions taints the
 work, it will be lawful. Thomas proves this on the passage, “Signs will
 follow those who will believe. In my name they will cast out demonic
 powers...They will get rid of snakes” (Mark 16[:17–18]). From this he
 infers [Golden Chain 16 on Matt. 16:17–18] that if these conditions are
 maintained it is lawful to ward off snakes through divine words.
 592 For these handbooks, see 151A, C.
 593 I.e., pieces of paper with sacred texts written on them that were tied onto people as amulets.
448
 The Hammer of Witches 172D–173A
 173A
 Also, he offers further proof of this.594 The Words of God are no
 less effective than the Relics of the Saints, Augustine saying [Sermon
 300.2], “The Word of God is not inferior to the body of Christ,”595 and
 according to everyone it is permissible for people to carry the Relics
 of Saints with them reverently. Therefore, in whatever way the name
 of God is ritually invoked (whether through the Lord’s Prayer, the Hail
 Mary,HisNativity andPassion, the Five Wounds,596 theSevenWords597
 that Heuttered on the Cross, the Triumphal Placard,598 the Three Nails,
 or the other weapons of the Church militant of Christ against the Devil
 and his works),599 these will be altogether lawful and hope can be placed
 in them when the effect is entrusted to the will of God (understand
 this statement about the constraining of snakes to apply to the other
 animals), provided that it is only the Holy Words and the virtue of
 God that are being respected. With regard to these words, however,
 one should proceed cautiously in enchantments because, as the Doctors
 say, such enchantments often contain unlawful observances and achieve
 their effect through demons, especially in the case of snakes, since the
 snake was the first tool used by the demon for deceiving man.
 In the city of Salzburg there was a certain enchanter. One day, he
 wished to stage a spectacle for other people by enchanting all the snakes
 within a one-mile radius, as the story holds, into a certain ditch and
 killing them. When the snakes were gathered from all over and he was
 standing above the ditch, last of all a huge and fearsome snake balked at
 entering the ditch and kept nodding as if the man should permit him
 to leave and slither off freely to wherever he wished, but the man was
 unwillingtostophisenchantmentofthesnake,alltheothershavingbeen
 killed in the ditch (they would die instantly in it). Thus, the fearsome
 594 Though not marked as such, this paragraph is apparently the third additional question of the
 f
 irst basic question (170D–171A).
 595 Note the shift here from the singular “word of God,” which simply signifies (as a clumsy
 translation into Latin of the Greek word logos, which means both “word” and “discourse”) the
 information that comes from God, to the plural “words of God,” which represent the use, in a
 Christian context, of words associated with God for purposes that can only be characterized as
 magical from an objective point of view.
 596 I.e., the nails in the hands and feet plus the slash to his side.
 597 Presumably, Luke (23:46): Pater, in manus tuas commendo spiritum meum. In the Latin version
 of John, Jesus is quoted twice for a total of seven words: Mulier, ecce filius tuus (19:26) and
 Omnia consummata sunt (19:28). In Matthew (27:46) and Mark (15:34) he utters the same eight
 words in Latin (Deus meus, deus meus, ut quid dereliquisti me?) as a translation of four words in
 Aramaic.
 598 The placard placed above his head on the cross and bearing the words Jesus Nazarenus Rex
 Iudaeorum, which are cited elsewhere for use in ecclesiastical magic (see n. 36).
 599 Only the Lord’s Prayer and the Hail Mary are mentioned explicitly in the source (Nider) and
 the subsequent details are elaborations on the source’s general expression “or in any other way.”
Part II 173A–C
 449
 snake also had to enter it, but it reared up opposite the man and leapt
 overtheditch,lungingattheenchanter.Twistingaroundtheenchanter’s 173B
 belly and waist, the snake dragged him into the ditch with him, thereby
 killing him. From this it can be understood that such practices should
 be followed through the virtue of God only for a beneficial purpose
 (putting snakes to flight from human habitations) and only in fear of
 and reverence for God.
 As for the second question (in what way exorcisms or chants of this
 kind are to be carried or hung from the neck or sewn into clothing),600
 it seems that such practices are unlawful. Augustine says, “Belonging to
 superstition are the thousandmagicalarts,includingthetyingofamulets
 and remedies condemned by the teaching of physicians, whether this
 consists of incantations or certain marks that they call ‘characters’ or the
 hanging or inscribing of certain objects” (The Christian Doctrine,Bk.2
 [2.2]). Likewise, Chrysostom says, “Certain people carry around their
 necks awritten extract from a Gospel. Butisn’t the Gospel read every day
 in church and heard by everyone? When a person is not benefited by the
 Gospels when they are placed in his ears, how can they heal him when
 they are hung around his neck? Next, where is the ability of the Gospel,
 in the shapes of the letters or in the understanding of their meaning? If
 it is in the shapes, you do well to hang them around your neck. But if it 173C
 is in the understanding, then they are of more use placed in your heart
 than hung around your neck” (On Matthew [43]).
 Onthis point there is the following response from the Doctors, espe
cially St. Thomas (cited above, Article 4 [Summa 2/2.96.4], where he
 asks whether it is unlawful to hang divine words from the neck). It seems
 that with regard to hanging any enchantments and writings, provision
 should be taken against two things. First, what is it that is being written?
 Does it manifestly relate to the invocation of demons? In that case, it is
 judged not only superstitious but also unlawful and apostasy from the
 Faith. Similarly, provision should also be taken to make sure that it does
 not contain unknown names and so on (understand the conditions set
 down above).601 In that case, it is lawful for people to carry them with
 them, just as it is lawful to utter such words orally over the ill.
 The Doctors mentioned before consider and condemn the situation
 whensomeonepaysmoreattentiontoandhasmorerespectfortheshapes
 and letters that are written than for the understanding of the words.
 600 For the place of this “second question” in the organization of this section, see n. 589.
 601 172B–C.
450
 The Hammer of Witches 173C–D
 173D
 If it is said that a layman who does not understand the words can have
 no respect for their meaning, the response is that he should have respect
 for the virtue of God and entrust it to the will of God that He will carry
 out whatever is the decision of His piety.602
 As for the third question (whether the demon is to be conjured away
 at the same time that the disease is to be exorcized, or the other way
 around, or one without the other).603 Response. In this regard several
 questions should be considered. The first is whether there is always a
 demon when the person affected by sorcery is afflicted, the second is
 what sort of thing can be exorcized or adjured,604 and the third is the
 manner of performing the exorcism.
 As for the first, since according to John of Damascus the demon is in
 the place where he is working, it seems that the demon is always present
 with a person affected by sorcery when he afflicts him. This is also the
 case in the Legend605 of St. Bartholomew. In this instance it seems that
 the demon is healing when he ceases harming.606 Response. The fact
 that the demon is present for a person affected by sorcery and afflicted
 can be understood in two ways, in terms of either his being or his effect.
 In the first case, he is present in the beginning when the sorcery is put
 inside the victim. In the second case, he is not himself present in his
 effect. Similarly, when the Doctors ask whether the Devil can inhabit a
 human in substance with any instance of mortal guilt, they say that he
 does so not by himself but by his effect, just as an owner is said to dwell
 within a slave in terms of his ownership. (The situation is different with
 those under demonic assault.)
 602 This passage is an attempt to reapply the argument of Aquinas to a subject that he does not
 address directly. In Summa 2/2.96.4 the issue is whether it is lawful to carry written texts as
 amulets. The “wrong” position holds that this is absolutely permissible and Aquinas rejects this
 argument in a very equivocal and narrow manner. In his view, such practices are impermissible
 if the object in question (e.g., special characters written on an amulet) is thought to have some
 influence in its own right, but the invocation of God’s name is legitimate so long as the effect
 is expected from God alone. Aquinas says nothing about the use of written words by illiterates.
 603 I.e., the third additional question to the first basic question (170D–171A).
 604 “Adjuration” is the procedure of persuading or compelling someone to do something through
 the invocation of God (for the adjuration of demons, which only involves compulsion, see Aq.,
 Summa 2/2.90.2).
 605 See n. 485.
 606 In the legendary tale of Bartholomew, the apostle traveled to India to spread the good news
 there. He entered a temple that hadanidolinit namedAscaroth,whohadupuntilthenseemed
 to offer the sick cures, though in fact it was the idol (i.e., pagan god) who had made them sick
 in the first place and seemed to cure by ceasing to harm. This “idol” was really a demon, who
 then caused Bartholomew trouble by pretending that his arrival had brought an end to the
 idol’s ability to cure. See Legenda Aurea no. 123.
Part II 173D–174B
 451
 Asfor thesecondquestion(whatkindofthingscanbeexorcized), one
 should note the pronouncement of St. Thomas in the Commentary on 174A
 Pronouncements, Dist. 6,[Sent. 4.6.2.3a.Co.]. There he says that because
 of man’s sins, the Devil receives power over him and all the things that
 are useful for man in order to punish him, and since Christ has no
 agreement with Belial, whatever is to be sanctified for the worship of
 God should first be exorcized, so that after it has been freed from the
 power of the Devil by which he can take up that thing to harm man, it
 may be consecrated to God. (This is clearly the case with the blessing
 of water, the consecration of a church and all such things.) Hence, since
 baptism is the first sanctification607 by which man is consecrated to
 God, it is also necessary for man to be exorcized before being baptized.
 A fortiori this is much more the case with man than with other things,
 since man holds within him the reason why the Devil received power
 over the other things that exist for the sake of man, that is, original and
 personally committed sin. This is what is signified by the things said in
 an exorcism (for instance, the injunction, “Depart from him, Satan,”
 and the like) and by the things done in an exorcism.
 As for the question at hand, it is asked whether the disease is to be
 exorcized and the demon adjured, and which of these comes first. The 174B
 response is that it is not the disease that is exorcized but the person who
 is diseased and affected by sorcery. This is like the case of a child, where
 it is not the tainting caused by the incitement to evil that is exorcized
 but the child tainted thereby. Similarly, the person affected by sorcery
 is first exorcized, and he orders the Devil and his creation to depart,
 just as the child is exorcized first and then the Devil adjured to depart,
 and it is a very good idea to exorcize and bless everything that can be
 applied to the use of the person affected by sorcery, like food and drink,
 just as salt and water are exorcized. The rite of exorcism holds that in
 the case of baptizing people there should, first, be an exhaling to the
 west and a renunciation, second, a raising of the hands towards heaven
 accompanied by the Holy Confession of the Faith and the avowal of the
 Christian religion, third, a prayer, a blessing and a laying-on of hands,
 and, fourth, a removal of the clothing and anointing with Holy Oil,
 and after the Baptism a taking of Communion and the putting-on of
 white clothing, but it is not necessary for these things to be done in
 the case of exorcizing someone affected by sorcery. What is necessary
 is that the person should first have made a genuine confession as is
 607 Literally, “act of making holy.”
174C
 452
 The Hammer of Witches 174C–D
 appropriate, hold a lit candle if he can, and receive Holy Communion,
 andinplaceofwhiteclothingheshouldremainwithablessedcandlethe
 length of Christ’s body or of the trunk of the cross bound to his naked
 body.608
 The following can be said. “I exorcize you, Peter (or Barbara), who
 are sick but reborn with the Holy Font of Baptism, through the Living
 God,”– (Sign of the Cross)– “the True God,”– (again)– “the Holy
 God,”–(again)–“the GodWhoredeemedyouwithHispreciousblood
 so that you may become an exorcized person, so that there may flee and
 depart from you every fantasy and evil of the Devil’s deceit, and every
 unclean spirit after being adjured through Him Who is to come to judge
 the quick and the dead and the secular world with fire. Amen.
 174D
 Let us pray. O God of compassion, God of clemency, You Who in
 accordance with the great number of Your mercies rebuke those whom
 YouloveandpiouslyrestrainfortheircorrectionthosewhomYouaccept,
 we invoke You, O Lord, to deign to bestow Your Grace upon Your
 servant, who in body suffers an illness of limbs. Attach whatever has
 been corrupted by earthly infirmity or violated by the Devil’s trickery
 to the Unity of the Body of the Church as a member609 of redemption.
 Have pity on his groans, O Lord, have pity on his tears, and receive
 into the Sacrament of Your reconciliation someone who has trust only
 in Your mercy. Through Our Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.
 Therefore, accursed devil, acknowledge the sentence passed on you.
 Give honor to the True andLiving GodandtotheLord,Jesus Christ, so
 that along with your creation you will depart from this servant, whom
 Our Lord, Jesus Christ, has redeemed with His precious blood.”
 Next, he exorcizes him with prayers as above a second and a third
 time. “Let us pray. O God, since You always rule over Your creation
 with pious affection, turn Your ear to our entreaties. In propitiousness,
 look uponYourservant whosuffers from adverse bodily health, and visit
 him. WithYourSalvation grant to himthemedicine of HeavenlyGrace.
 Through Our Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.
 Therefore, accursed devil,” and so on as above.
 Prayer for the third exorcism. “O God, the sole protection for human
 illness, show the power of Your help over our sick person, so that he (or
 608 Candles played a prominent role in late medieval piety, and on the assumption that bigger was
 better, these were often of extravagant dimensions.
 609 There is an untranslatable Latin play on words here, the word membrum signifying both
 (literally) a limb of the body (this sense giving rise to the English expression “male member”)
 and(metaphorically)thememberofanorganization(thissensegivingtheusualEnglishmeaning
 of the word).
Part II 174D–175B
 453
 she) may deserve to be helped by Your mercy and presented unharmed
 to Your Holy Church. Through Our Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.”
 The exorcist should always sprinkle with Holy Water.
 Note that this method is set out not because it should be performed
 in exactly this way or because other kinds of exorcism are not of greater
 effectiveness, but so that a method of exorcizing or adjuring should 175A
 be set out here. For in ancient histories and in books in churches more
 devout and effective exorcisms can sometimes be found. Since in all
 matters reverence for God should be given priority, let each individual
 act with this as his guide to the extent that it will be helpful.
 On the basis of the foregoing let us make some conclusions for the
 sake of simple people.610 Let the method of exorcizing someone affected
 by sorcery be as follows. First, he should make a genuine confession
 according to the frequently cited Chapter “Si per sortiarias.” Next, there
 should be a careful search throughout all the corners of the house, in
 the furniture and bedding, and under the threshold of the doorway, in
 case the devices of the sorcery can be found in a cautious way. If they are
 found, they are to be immediately thrown into the fire. It is also a good
 idea if everything in terms of furniture and clothing is replaced, and if
 the person changes his dwelling and house.
 In the situation where nothing is found, the person to be exorcized
 will, if he can, enter the church in the morning (the more holy the day,
 suchasFeastsoftheBlessedVirginorVigils,thebetter).Apriestwhohas
 also made confession and who is in a good state will be more useful. The
 person to be exorcized should then carry a blessed candle in his hand as
 well as he can, sitting or on bended knees. Those in attendance should 175B
 makedevoutprayersrequesting that he maybefreed.He611 shouldbegin
 the litany with “Our source of help is in Our Lord.” He should also have
 a respondent. He should sprinkle the person with Holy Water and put
 a stole around his neck. He should add the psalm Deus in adiutorium
 [Ps. 69]612 and perform the litany as is customary for the sick, saying in
 invocation of the Saints, “Pray for him and be propitious. Free him, O
 Lord”, and performing the individual elements down to the end, where
 prayers are to be said. Then, instead of the prayers, he should begin the
 exorcism, and he will continue in the manner stated above, or in a better
 one, as he sees fit. Exorcisms of this kind could be repeated at least three
 times a week, so that the Grace of health may be obtained when the
 610 I.e., laymen.
 611 I.e., the priest.
 612 Ps. 70 in traditional English numeration.
454
 The Hammer of Witches 175B–D
 number of intercessors is increased. Above all, the person should take
 Communion with the Sacrament of the Eucharist (certain people think
 this should be done before the exorcism).
 175C
 175D
 In Confession, the confessor should notice if the person is trapped in
 some fetter of excommunication613 or if he was once rashly trapped in
 this without receiving absolution from the judge.614 For in that case,
 although theconfessor absolves himconditionally,615 once his well-being
 is restored the person should seek absolution from the judge who did
 the binding.616
 It should be noted that when the exorcist does not hold the Order of
 being an Exorcist, he can proceed through the prayers, and if he knows
 howtoread, heshould read Scriptural passages: the first Gospel passages
 of the four Evangelists, the Gospel passage “An angel was sent” [Luke
 1:26] and the Passion of the Lord, all of which have a great virtue in
 casting out the works of the Devil. The passage “In the beginning was
 the word” from the Gospel of John [1:1] should also be written down
 and hung from the neck of the sick person. In this way, the Grace of
 health would be expected from God.617
 If someoneraisesthequestionofthedifferencebetweenthesprinkling
 of Holy Water and an exorcism, since each is ordained in its effect
 to combat the harassment of a demon, St. Thomas responds (above
 citation, Dist. 6 [Sent. 4.6.2.3a.Ra3]) as follows. The devil assails us from
 without and from within. Holy Water is therefore ordained against the
 Devil’s assault from without, while exorcism is ordained against the
 Devil’s assault from within. Hence, those for whom it is given are called
 “energumeni”618 from en, which is “within,” and geron619 or “toil,” as if
 they are toiling within. Therefore, each procedure is used in exorcizing
 someone affected by sorcery, since the people are being harassed in each
 place.
 Asforthesecondbasicquestion(whatshouldbedonewhentheGrace
 of health cannot be obtained through exorcisms),620 the response is as
 follows. This can happen for six reasons, and there is a seventh reason
 613 This is just a circumlocution for still being excommunicate.
 614 For the confessor as the judge of the “forum of penance,” see 151C.
 615 For conditional absolution, see n. 564.
 616 This is a reference to Matt. 16:19 (“...whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in
 heaven”), a passage used to justify the “power of the keys” (see n. 487), which in this case is
 exemplified by the priest’s authorization to impose penance.
 617 See 172C.
 618 A Greek phrase borrowed into Latin and literally signifying “worked upon within.”
 619 Should be ergon, as Aquinas correctly states.
 620 As laid out in 170D.
Part II 175D–176A
 455
 about which we suspend our judgment. The fact that someone is not
 freed can be caused by the smallness of faith of the bystanders or of those
 presenting the sick person; or by the sins of those who are suffering from
 the sorcery; or by the failure to apply suitable remedies; or by some fault
 in the Faith on the part of the exorcist; or by reverence felt for the virtues
 in someone else;621 or for the sake of the purging or merit of those who
 are suffering from the sorcery. The truth of the Gospels teaches about
 the first four regarding the presence of the father whose only son was
 a lunatic and of Christ’s disciples (Matthew 17[:14–20], Mark 9[:13
28]).622 First the offerer and the crowd lacked faith, and so the father
 prayed with tears, “I believe, O Lord! Help my lack of belief” [Mark
 9:23]. To the crowd Jesus said, “O unbelieving and perverse generation,
 how longwill I be with you?”
 Asfor thesecondreason(the oneconcerningthepersonwhoissuffer
ing from the demon), Jesus rebuked him (the son)623 [Matthew 17:17],
 because, as St. Jerome says on that passage [Commentary on Matthew],
 he had been overwhelmed by the demon because of his sins.
 As for the third reason (the neglect of appropriate remedies), it is
 clear that no good and perfect men were present, and hence Chrysos
tom says624 on the same passage, “The pillars of the Faith (Peter, James
 and John) were not present as they had been at the Transfiguration of
 Christ,625 nor was there any praying or fasting, and in their absence
 Christ said, ‘This kind of demon is not cast out’ [Matthew 17:20, Mark
 9:28].” Hence, Origen says on that passage [Commentary on Matthew],
 “If it is sometimes necessary to persist in the healing of those who expe
rience some suffering, we should not be amazed, nor should we ask
 questions or speak as if to a spirit in this world who is listening. Rather,
 we should use fasts and prayers to drive out our evil spirits.” The gloss
 says, “This kind of demon, that is, this flux of carnal pleasures to which
 that spirit was disposed, can be conquered only if the spirit is confirmed
 with prayer and the flesh weakened through fasting.”
 621 I.e., other than God.
 622 The source (Nider) has been somewhat garbled here, and the reference should be to the “story
 of the father...and the presence of the disciples...”
 623 Taken by itself, the Latin here supports this interpretation, though the parallel in Luke 4:35
 suggests that it was the demon whom Jesus rebuked. In any case, Jerome’s explanation has no
 support in the text.
 624 Ultimate reference unknown.
 625 The transfiguration (Matt. 17:1–13), an incident in which God demonstrates in the presence
 of Peter, James and John his pleasure in Jesus, takes place immediately before the incident
 involving the possessed son, and there is no suggestion in the text that the three apostles had
 left Jesus in the interim (and in fact Peter appears in Matt. 17:24 with no indication that he had
 been anywhere else).
 176A
456
 The Hammer of Witches 176A–C
 176B
 176C
 Thefourth (guilt on the part of the exorcist, especially concerning the
 Faith) is explained in the same passage, with reference to the Disciples of
 Christwhowerepresent.WhentheDiscipleslateraskedinprivateabout
 the reason for their lack of power, Jesus answered, “Because of your lack
 of belief. Verily I say unto you, if you have faith, like a grain of mustard
 seed, you will say to this mountain, move” and so on [Matthew 17:19].
 Here Hilary [of Poitiers, Commentary on Matthew] says, “The Apostles
 did believe, but they were not yet perfect in the Faith. For while the Lord
 tarried on the mountain with the other three and the rest remained with
 the crowd, a certain lack of fervor had lessened their faith.”
 The fifth is explained in Lives of the Fathers [8.28], where we read that
 sometimes people under demonic assault were not freed by St. Anthony
 but they were freed by his disciple Paul.
 The sixth reason was explained.626 When someone is freed from an
 instance of guilt, he is not always freed from the penalty. Instead, the
 penalty sometimesremainsaspunishmentandsatisfactionfortheearlier
 crime.
 There is still another remedy that is said to have freed many people
 affected by sorcery, and this is that they were baptized anew, though
 only in a specific circumstance. As I have said, we do not dare make a
 f
 inal determination about this, but it is very true that when someone
 has not been duly exorcized before baptism, the Devil clearly receives
 greater power over him by God’s permission.
 From the foregoing it is clear and not at all doubtful that very many
 formsofnegligencearecommittedeitherbythepriestswhoarenotprop
erly disposed, in which case the fourth impediment mentioned above
 applies, or by old women who do not follow the appropriate manner of
 baptizing at the necessary time. Yet I do not wish to claim that the Sacra
ments cannot be provided by evil people. To the contrary, however evil
 the priest is, he performs the baptism and completes this Sacrament, so
 long as he is ordained, intentionally performs the baptism in the appro
priate manner with the appropriate formula of words and appropriate
 physical matter,627 and intends to complete the Sacrament.628 Similarly,
 626 161B.
 627 I.e., clean water (Aq., Sent. 2.5.2.2.Ra1).
 628 It was an inflexibly upheld tenet of the official church that the efficacy of its rituals did not
 depend upon the personal integrity of the officiating ecclesiastic (as maintained, for instance,
 by the Donatists). (From an institutional point of view, allowing the validity of the church’s acts
 and decisions to be called into question because of the vagaries of those in charge would soon
 result in paralyzing chaos.) Hence, the author is at pains to avoid the appearance of advocating
 such a view, which is a natural implication of the claim that the baptizing priest’s ineptitude
 could undermine the beneficial effects of the baptism.
Part II 176C–177A
 457
 this is how he should proceed in ritually performing an exorcism, not
 being puffed uporviolent. Hence,peopleshouldnottakepartinDivine
 Service of this kind without the intent of act or habit629– and certainly
 without stumbling over the obligatory words or passing them over in
 silence! In fact, it is necessary to state that just as four essential elements
 (physical matter, form, intention and ecclesiastical order, in the proce
dures discussed above) serve the purpose of completing a Sacrament,
 the same is the case with exorcism in its own procedure: when one is
 lacking, the officiant will not be able to complete the Sacrament.630
 Theobjection is not valid that people were baptized without exorcism
 in the primitive Church or that even in the present time a person who 176D
 has been baptized can receive the character631 of the baptism without
 exorcism, because in that case it would have been vain for Gregory to
 institute exorcisms and the Church would instead be in error in its
 ceremonies. Hence, I have not dared to censure in any way those who
 wish to rebaptize in a specific circumstance those affected by sorcery
 and perchance make good what was neglected.632 Regarding those who
 walk across tall buildings at night-time without being harmed,633 many
 claim that this is clearly the work of an evil spirit who carries them in
 this way. It is recognized that when such people are rebaptized, they are
 better. The amazing thing is that when they are referred to634 by their
 ownnames, they are suddenly dashed to the ground, as if the name may
 not have been bestowed on them in the appropriate manner at their
 baptism.
 It is a good idea for the reader to pay attention to these six impedi
ments. Although they refer to the “energumini” (the possessed) and not
 to those affected by sorcery, nonetheless, God’s virtue is needed equally
 in each case. Indeed, it can be said that it is a matter of greater difficulty
 to heal someone affected by sorcery than an “energuminus” (a possessed
 person). Therefore, if these impediments are relevant in the latter case,
 then they are a fortiori relevant in the case of those affected by sorcery.
 This is proven by the following reasoning. As was explained above 177A
 (Chapter Ten),635 while people are sometimes possessed because of no
 629 For the sense of these requirements, see Aq., Sent. 4.6.1.2a.Ra4 and 2.40.1.5.Ra6.
 630 See Aq., Sent. 4.6.1.2a.Co.
 631 I.e., the permanent “impression” made on the soul by the rite.
 632 Thedefensiveness of the defense of rebaptism can be explained by the fact that Aquinas rejected
 the repetition of the rite under any circumstances (Sent. 4.6.2.1a).
 633 See 102C.
 634 I.e., while sleepwalking.
 635 127A–B.
458
 The Hammer of Witches 177A–C
 177B
 177C
 crimeoftheir ownbutbecauseofsomeoneelse’strivialcrime(forvarious
 reasons), in the case of sorcery affecting adults this mostly happens to
 them because they are being possessed very severely by a demon from
 within for the purpose of killing their soul. Hence, in the case of those
 affected by sorcery twosortsoflaborarerequiredforthisveryseverekind
 of possession, while only a straightforward labor is needed in the case
 of those possessed from without. Cassian says (Conference about Abbot
 Serenus [7.31]), “Those people are truly miserable and are to be judged
 worthy of pity of whom it is the case that, when they pollute themselves
 with every kind of crime and misdeed, not only is no sign of the Devil’s
 occupation plausibly displayed in them, but not even any temptation
 commensurate with their works or any scourging of chastisement is
 inflicted. They do not deserve the swift and expeditious medicine for
 this emergency.Theirobduracyandimpenitentheartsurpassthepenalty
 of the present life, and they store up for themselves anger and outrage
 on the day of anger and the revelation of the just judgment of God.
 Onthat day their worms636 will not die and their flames will not be put
 out.” Also, a little bit earlier Cassian [7:25] compares bodily possession
 to that of the soul through sin, saying, “It is generally agreed that those
 people are harassed more severely and vigorously who hardly seem to be
 afflicted by the demons in body but are more destructively possessed in
 spirit, being entangled in their vices and pleasures. For according to the
 viewoftheApostle[Romans6:16],apersonismadetheslaveofsomeone
 by whom he is overcome. But these people are more hopelessly sick in
 that because they are the chattel of the demons, they do not recognize
 either that they are being assailed by them or that they are enduring
 their tyranny.” From the foregoing it can be concluded a fortiori that
 whenpeopleareaffected by sorcery through being possessed by a demon
 not from without but from within with reference to the killing of their
 souls, the greater number of impediments makes it more difficult for
 such people to be healed.
 As for the third basic question637 (remedies consisting not of words
 but of works), regarding remedies of this kind, it is to be noted that
 there are two kinds of such remedies, and they are either altogether
 lawful and not suspect or suspect and not altogether lawful. The first
 kind was directly treated above at the end of Chapter Five, where a
 636 It was part of the medieval conception of hell that the worms that have been consuming the
 corpses in the period between their death and the resurrection of the dead on the Day of
 Judgment would continue to do so as part of the eternal punishment of the damned.
 637 As laid out in 170D–171A.
Part II 177C–178A
 459
 doubtful point in terms of herbs and rocks was laid out (how it is lawful
 for them to dispel acts of sorcery).638 Now it is necessary to treat the
 second group of remedies, those that seem suspect but not altogether
 unlawful. It is necessary to note the treatment in the chapters in Basic
 Division Two639 of the present Part Two of the work that dealt with the
 four remedies, of whichthreeareconsideredunlawfulandthefourthnot
 altogether unlawful but vain.640 Regarding this remedy, the canonists
 say that it is lawful to smash vanities with vanities, but we inquisitors
 share with the Holy Doctors the view that in a situation where remedies
 through Holy Words and lawful exorcisms are not enough (because of
 the impediments treated above, of which there are six or seven),641 then
 those affected by sorcery are to be urged to endure it with equanimity
 for the purpose of tolerating the evils of the present life as a way to
 purge their crimes, and not to make any further attempt at all to find
 superstitious and vain remedies.642 For this reason, if someone is not 177D
 content with the lawful forms of exorcism mentioned above and wishes
 to resort to the kind of (at the least) vain remedies that were discussed
 above, let him know that this is done against our will and without our
 permission.
 When these remedies were set out and explained in that passage, it
 was brought about that the sayings of Scotus, Hostiensis and the others
 on the one hand and those of the other theologians on the other were
 brought into agreement in every way,643 and our declaration therefore
 agrees with that of St. Augustine in a sermon against fortune-tellers and
 diviners (it is entitled Sermon on Auguries), in whichhesaysthefollowing
 [Fragmentary Sermon 278.1]. “Brothers, you know that I have quite often
 pleaded with you not to follow the customs of the pagans and sorcerers
 in any way, but this has had little effect on some of you. Because I
 am going to give an accounting on the Day of Judgment if I do not
 speak to you on my own behalf and on yours, and it will be necessary
 for me to suffer eternal punishments along with you, I am absolving
 myself before God when I again and again give warning and attest that
 none of you should seek the advice of diviners or fortune-tellers or 178A
 consult them about any matter or situation or illness, because whoever
 does this evil act will immediately lose the Sacrament of Baptism and
 638 169D–170C.
 639 I.e., Q. 2.
 640 These four remedies are discussed in 154A–158C.
 641 175D–176B.
 642 For the inquisitors’ preferred procedure, see 157D.
 643 154A.
460
 The Hammer of Witches 178A–C
 be rendered a sacrilegious pagan. Unless repentance comes to his aid,
 he will immediately be lost for eternity.” Later he adds the following.
 “No one makes644 an observation of the days for departure and return.
 For God has made all things very good, establishing one day and the
 next. But whenever there is a pressing need to do something or to go
 out, sign yourselves in the name of Christ, and while faithfully reciting
 the Apostles’ Creed or the Lord’s Prayer act with confidence through the
 assistance of God.”
 178B
 178C
 Not content with these procedures and wishing to pile errors upon
 errors, certain superstitious sons of the secular world attempt to defend
 themselves with the following arguments, going beyond the meaning
 and intention of Scotus and the canonists. Because, they say, natural
 objects have certain hidden virtues for which an explanation cannot be
 given by man, for instance the fact that steel attracts iron and many
 others listed by Augustine (City of God,Bk.21 [21.5.7]), it will not be
 unlawful, though it seems vain, to make an investigation of such objects
 in order to gain health when exorcisms and natural medicines fail. This
 would be the case when someone wishes to produce health in himself or
 someone else, through images that are not nigromantic but astrological
 or through rings and the like.
 Likewise, they argue as follows. Since natural bodies are subject to
 the heavenly bodies, certain bodies created by art, for instance images,
 acquire hidden virtues by receiving this character from an impression
 caused by the heavenly bodies. Therefore, bodies created by art, for
 instanceimages,acquirefromtheheavenlybodiesacertainhiddenability
 to cause certain effects, and therefore it is not unlawful to use them and
 other things of this kind.
 Also, demons can change bodies in many ways, as Augustine says in
 The Trinity,Bk.3 [3.8.9], and this is clearly the case with those affected
 by sorcery. Therefore, it is also lawful to use their virtue in order to
 endure such acts of sorcery.
 But in fact the sayings of all the Holy Doctors state the opposite, as
 was sufficiently explained in various passages. Hence, as for the first it
 is said that if natural objects are applied straightforwardly to produce
 certain effects for which they are thought to have a natural virtue, this is
 not unlawful. If, however, words are added or certain characters or some
 names or any other unknown or vain observances, of which it is obvious
 that they have no natural effectiveness for this, it will be superstitious
 644 The quotation of Augustine is somewhat loose here, and it should read “should make.”
Part II 178C–179A
 461
 and unlawful. Hence, St. Thomas says in treating this topic (Second of
 Second,Q.96, Article 2 at the end) that with reference to things done
 to bring about certain bodily effects, for instance health or something
 of the kind, one must consider whether they seem to be able to cause
 such effects naturally. Because it is lawful to apply natural causes for
 their effects, it is not unlawful. If, on the other hand, they do not seem
 to be able to cause such effects naturally, it follows that they are not
 being applied for these effects as causes but merely as signs, and in this
 case they pertain to agreements entered into with demons regarding the
 making of signs. Hence, Augustine says the following in City of God,Bk.
 21 [21.6]. “Creatures made not by demons but by God entice demons
 with different delights according to the differences among the demons.
 The demons are not enticed in the way that animals are by food but in
 the way that spirits are by signs, through various kinds of stones, plants,
 wood, animals, chants and rituals.”
 As for the second argument, this Doctor says the following. The nat- 178D
 ural virtues of natural bodies receive the bodies’ essential forms, which
 they acquire from the impression made by the heavenly bodies, and,
 therefore, they acquire certain active virtues from the impression made
 by these bodies. The forms of bodies created by art, on the other hand,
 derive from the conception of the artisan, and since they are nothing
 other than composition, ordering and shaping, as is stated in [Aristo
tle] Physics,Bk. 1 [1.5], they cannot have a natural virtue for action.645
 This is why as creations of art they acquire no natural virtue from the
 impression caused by the heavenly bodies, but do so merely in terms
 of their natural material. Therefore, as Augustine says (City of God,Bk.
 10 [10.11]), that Porphyry is incorrect when he thinks that with plants,
 and with stones, and with certain animate creatures and sounds, and
 with certain words and configurations and formations and with certain
 motions of the stars observed in the turning of the sky, the powers of the
 stars suitable for producing various effects were fabricated by humans
 on earth, as if the results of the magical arts came from the virtue of
 the heavenly bodies. But as Augustine adds in that passage, all of this
 belongstothedemons,whoplaytricksonsoulswhicharesubordinateto
 them.
 Hence, the images that they call “astrological” have their effect from 179A
 the working of demons. A sign of this is the fact that it is necessary for
 645 This argument would seem to represent an equation of the “forming” of matter into objects by
 human (or demonic) action with the supernatural “forms” (see n. 118) that in an abstract sense
 were thought to convert the elements into objects of the world.
462
 The Hammer of Witches 179A–B
 certain characters that have no natural working to be inscribed on them,
 since a figure is not the origin of a natural action. Rather, the astrological
 images differ from the nigromantic ones in that while express invoca
tions are made in the nigromantic ones, and hence they also pertain
 to agreements entered into with demons, the astrological ones pertain
 to implicit agreements because of the signs that consist of figures and
 characters.
 As for the third argument, no power over demons has been entrusted
 to man, so that he could use them for whatever purpose he wishes.
 Rather, war has been declared for him against the demons. Hence, in no
 way is it lawful for man to use the help of demons through agreements
 implicit or express.
 179B
 This is what Thomas says.
 As for the question at hand. When he says “in no way,” he means
 “with no vanities,” that is, the vanities by which a demon can become
 involved in any way at all.646 If, however, these things are so vain that
 humanfrailtydoesinfactundertakethemtoregainhealth,lettheperson
 grieve over his past acts, take precaution for his future ones, and pray
 that his debt may be forgiven and that he may not be led any more
 into temptation, as Augustine says at the end of the Rule [Rule for the
 Servants of God 12=Letter 211].
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 6:
 Aq., Sent. 4.6.1.2a; 4.6.2.3
 Summa 2/2.96.2, 4
 Augustine, Fragmentary Sermon 278
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.2, 4, 5, 6, 12
 Praec. 1.11.23, 26, 27]
 remedies against hailstorms and for domestic
 animals affected by sorcery
 Chapter Seven
 HOW domestic animals affected by sorcery can be healed
 with remedies, and also storms in the air. First, note is to be made of
 certain unlawful remedies practiced by certain people. Some do this
 646 This is clearly not what Aquinas meant by “vanities.”
Part II 179B–D
 463
 with superstitious words or acts, like those who use unlawful words and
 chants to heal worms in the fingers or limbs. (How to recognize whether
 these chants are lawful or not is treated in the preceding chapter.) There
 are others who do not sprinkle Holy Water over the domestic animals
 affected by sorcery, but pour it into their mouths.
 To show that the first remedy, which consists of words, is unlawful,
 there is, in addition to the foregoing, the following demonstration by
 William of Auvergne (often cited) [Laws 27]. If there were some virtue
 inherent to the words (and let us speak of words as such), then it would
 be so in one of five ways,647 that is, with reference to the material (the
 air), or the form (the sound), or a method of making the sign, or all
 of these at once. It is not the first, because air taints only if it is poi- 179C
 sonous. It is also not the second, because an aim exceeding the capacity
 vitiates the potential.648 Nor the third, because in that case the terms
 “devil,” “death,” and “hell” would always be harmful, and “health” and
 “goodness” would always be beneficial. It is also not all of them at once,
 because when the whole is composed of insufficient elements, it too is
 insufficient.
 It is not valid to object that God bestowed the force upon the words
 as He did upon plants and stones, because if there were any virtues
 inherent in certain words or Sacramentals or other blessings and lawful
 chants, they would possess such virtues within themselves, not as words
 but as aresult of divine arrangement and ordination and as aresult of the
 agreementofGod,asiftheLordsaid,“Whoeverdoesthis,Iwillperform
 this grace forhim.”ThisishowthewordsintheSacramentsachievewhat
 they betoken. (According to others they also have an inherent virtue,
 but the first view is embraced because it serves present purposes.)649
 Regarding the other words and chants it is clear from the foregoing
 that as words that are put together in groups or uttered or symbolized,
 words achieve nothing, but the invocation of the name of God and the
 obsecration, which is a very sacred public declaration of entrusting the
 result to the will of God, are beneficial.
 647 William states that there are four methods, which he then illogically lists as material, form,
 things signified, all of these, and some of these. In adapting this passage, the author apparently
 correctly counted these items as numbering five, but then failed to list the fifth one!
 648 This reasoning is entirely different from that of William. He first grants that terrifying sounds
 like the crack of thunder or the roar of a lion may cause death, but dismisses such effects
 because they relate to natural phenomena and not words. Next, he denies the relevance of a
 Jewish sorcerer having killed a bull through an incantation. In adapting this passage, the author
 apparently decided to summarize the general idea with a scholastic aphorism.
 649 It is not a very compelling argument to pick explanation A over alternative B simply because it
 is more convenient.
 179D
464
 The Hammer of Witches 179D–180A
 180A
 Remedies consisting of works that seem unlawful, as was mentioned
 above. In the region of Swabia it is a very common practice that before
 sunrise on the first day of May village women go out and fetch from the
 woods or trees willow branches or other boughs. They then weave these
 into a circle and hang them at the entrance of the barn, claiming that for
 the entire year all domestic animals will remain unharmed by sorceresses
 and be preserved. According to the opinion of those who say that it is
 possible to smash vanities with vanities,650 this would not be unlawful,
 andsuchwouldalsobethecasewiththosewhodriveoffdiseasesthrough
 unknown words. But let us go on without wishing to cause offense and
 say that if on the first or second day a woman, or whoever it is that goes
 out, collects plants, boughs or branches without paying any attention
 to the rising or setting of the sun but with a recitation of the Lord’s
 Prayer or the Creed of the Faith and then hangs these items above the
 doorwaytothebarn,ingoodfaithentrusting the effect of the protection
 to God’s will, she will not be subject to censure, as was explained in the
 preceding chapter651 on the basis of the words of Jerome (they are quoted
 in 26, last question [actually, Decretum 2.26.7.18]): “It is also lawful for
 someone suffering a demonic power to have plants and rocks without
 enchanting.”
 Similarly, there are those who on Palm Sunday keep and raise up
 among the grapevines and standing crops the Sign652 of the Cross or
 boughs or flowers that have been blessed, claiming that while the crops
 onall sides were harmed byhailstorms, the crops in their fields remained
 unharmed.Itseemsthatadistinctionshouldbemadeaboutthesepeople
 on the basis of the distinction already mentioned.
 Similarly, there are those who as a protection for their milk, that is, to
 prevent the cows from being deprived of it through sorcery, in the name
 of Goddistribute among the poor for free all the liquid of the milk they
 collect on Saturday, claiming that through alms of this kind the cows
 are saved from sorceresses and also have their supply of milk increased.
 In this work nothing is judged to be superstitious, provided that, for the
 sake of the piety that they offer to the poor, they undertake to implore
 the piety of God to protect the domestic animals, leaving the effect of
 the protection to God’s providence according to His resolve.
 Also, Nider says in his Praeceptorium (Precept 1, Chapter 11) that it is
 also lawful to bless domestic animals like sick people with written chants
 650 See 153A–B.
 651 170A–C.
 652 Presumably a representation of the crucifix.
Part II 180B–D
 465
 andsacredwords, andevenwiththingsthatseemtohavetheappearance 180B
 of an enchantment, so long as the seven conditions mentioned before653
 are maintained. He also says that he had learned through the experience
 of devout persons and virgins that when the Sign of the Cross along with
 the Lord’s Prayer and the Hail Mary is used three times or so on a cow,
 the work of the demon stops if sorcery is the cause.
 Hesays the following in his Ant Hill [5.4]. “It is generally agreed that
 sorcerers confess that their acts of sorcery are impeded by the rituals
 venerated and maintained by the Church, like the sprinkling of Holy
 Water, the eating of Holy Salt, the lawful use of candles consecrated on
 the Day of Purification654 and of fronds consecrated on Palm Sunday
 and the like, because the Church exorcizes these things so that they will
 reduce the powers of the demon.”
 Also, when sorceresses wish to deprive a domestic animal of the liquid
 of milk, from the house in which the domestic animal stays they ask for
 a little milk or butter hardened from that animal, so that this will then
 allow themtoaffecttheanimalwithsorcerythroughtheirart.Therefore,
 the women of whom suspected sorceresses make requests of this kind
 should be careful not to make them a loan or gift of the least thing.
 Also, there are certain women who feel that they are making no
 progress in hardening the butter while toiling in the normal way over
 oblong vats suitable for this job, and then if they are able to get a bit
 of butter quickly from the house of the suspected sorceress, they make
 pats (mouthfuls) of this butter and with the invocation of the Most
 Holy Trinity (Father, Son and Holy Ghost), they cast the pats into a
 vessel, thereby putting the whole sorcery to flight. Here again it is a
 case of a vanity being smashed with vanities only in that the woman
 has to borrow butter from the suspected sorceress. But if without the
 borrowing she did this with the invocation of the Most Holy Trinity
 and with the addition of the Lord’s Prayer, then even if she puts in three
 pieces of her own butter (or someone else’s if she has none of her own),
 she would remain unworthy of censure because she entrusts the effect
 to God’s will. She would not, however, be commendable, because of her
 putting in three pieces of butter. She would be commendable if she put
 the sorcery to flight in the manner described above by sprinkling Holy
 Water and putting in exorcized salt while praying.
 180C
 Also, it is often the case that all the domestic animals are killed by 180D
 sorcery, and those to whom such things happen should see to it that
 653 171D–172C.
 654 See n. 20.
466
 The Hammer of Witches 180D–181B
 the earth is taken away from under the threshold of the doorway to the
 barn or in many instances from the place where they are watered, and
 that other earth is put in those places with the sprinkling of Holy Water.
 Sorceresses have often confessed to having hidden devices for sorcery in
 such places, confessing that at the insistence of the demons all they had
 to do was makeaditch andthe demonputthesorcery there. The device
 for sorcery was some very insignificant object, like a stone, a piece of
 wood, or a mouse or snake. It is generally agreed that in such affairs the
 Devil works acts of sorcery by himself without needing consent, or that
 he also seeks her damnation and for this reason forces her to work with
 him in some way.
 181A
 181B
 Against hailstorms and rainstorms the following remedy is practiced
 in addition to the raising of the Sign of the Cross discussed above.655
 Hailstones are cast into the fire with the invocation of the Most Holy
 Trinity. The Lord’s Prayer is addedtwoorthreetimesalongwiththeHail
 Mary. The passage “In the beginning was the Word” from the Gospel
 of John with the making of the Sign of the Cross is added against a
 storm all over: in front, in back and in every direction of the earth. In
 this case, when he repeats, “The Word was made flesh,” three times at
 the end and then says three times, “May this storm be put to flight by
 the words of the Gospel,” the storm will suddenly stop if it was in fact
 caused as a result of sorcery. These very true experimenta are judged to be
 not even suspect. The mere casting of the hailstones into the fire would
 be considered superstitious, if this is done without the invocation of the
 Divine Name.
 If it is asked whether the storms could not have been calmed without
 these hailstones, the response is that they certainly could have been
 through other Holy Words. In trying to destroy the Devil’s creation
 through the invocation of the Most Holy Trinity, however, it is the
 intention of the one who casts them to vex the Devil, and so he casts
 themintofireratherthanwater,sincethemorequicklytheyaredissolved,
 the more quickly his creation is destroyed. He entrusts the effect of
 protection to the will of God, however.
 In addition, when a certain sorceress was asked by a judge whether
 stormsstirredupbysorceressescouldinsomewaybecalmed,shereplied,
 “Yes, through the following phrase. ‘I adjure you, hailstorms and winds,
 by the Five Wounds of Christ656 and by the Three Nails that pierced
 His hands and feet and by the four Evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke
 655 180A.
 656 See n. 596.
Part II 181B–D
 467
 and John, to dissolve into water and come down.”’ Many women also
 confess, some voluntarily, others with difficulty under torture, that there
 are five situations through which they are greatly impeded, sometimes in
 whole, sometimes in part, sometimes with the result of preventing such
 things being done to aparticular person, sometimes to his friends. These
 situations are when people maintain the Faith and the Commandments
 of God intact, when they protect themselves with the Sign of the Cross
 and with prayer, when they cultivate the rituals and ceremonies of the
 Church, when they properly carry out public justice, and when they
 think over the Passion of Christ in speech or mind. Hence, Nider also
 says (cited above [Praeceptorium 1.11.34]), “For this reason it is a universal
 or general practice in the Churchtoringbellsagainstthewind.Thereare
 twopurposesforthis. Thefirst is that the demonsshouldwithdrawfrom
 their acts of sorcery as if on account of trumpets consecrated to God,
 and the second is that the congregation should be roused to invoke God
 against the storms. For the same reason it is the most ancient tradition 181C
 of the Churches of France and Germany in common that the procedure
 used to settle the wind involves the Sacrament of the Altar657 and Holy
 Words.”
 Because this method involving the carrying of the Sacrament to calm
 the windseemstobesomethingsuperstitious to manypeople,since they
 do not understand the rules by which it is decided whether something
 is superstitious or not, it should be noted that five rules (considerations)
 are laid down by which anyone can recognize whether a work offered
 to God is superstitious, that is, an observance going beyond the limit
 of the Christian religion, or it is intended for the purpose of offering to
 Goddueworship and honor and derives from the true virtue of religion
 in acts both of heart and of body. These considerations are based on the
 gloss on the passage of the Apostle, “Which things have a rationale of
 wisdom in superstition” (Colossians 2[:23]), which says, “Superstition
 is religion maintained beyond the limit,” as has also been mentioned
 above.658
 The first rule is that in all our works the glory of God should be
 our main end according to the passage, “Whether you are eating or
 drinking or doing something else, do everything for the glory of God” [1
 Corinthians 10:31], and therefore in every work relating to the Christian
 religion, it should be noted whether the work is for the glory of God 181D
 657 I.e., the consecrated host.
 658 171D–172A.
468
 The Hammer of Witches 181D–182A
 and in the work the man is principally giving glory to God, so that
 through this work the man’s mind is also subordinated to God. Indeed,
 although this rule means that the ceremonial or judicial provisions of
 the Old Testament are not practiced under the New Testament, since
 we know that while the former practices were proclaimed in figurative
 sense,659 the latter were proclaimed in truth, nonetheless, the carrying
 of the Sacrament or of relics to calm the wind does not seem to violate
 this rule.
 The second rule is that it should be noted whether the work that is
 being done is for the purpose of training the body or is conducive to
 restraining lustful desire or to bodily abstinence, provided that this is in
 a manner appropriate for virtue, that is, according to the ritual of the
 Church or according to moral doctrine, since the Apostle says, “Your
 obedience should be reasoning” (Romans 12[:1]). Since this second rule
 means that those who vow not to comb the hair on their heads on
 Saturday or to fast on Sunday as the better day and the like act foolishly,
 it again does not seem that the carrying of the Sacrament and so on is
 superstitious.
 182A
 Thethird rule is that it should be noted whether the work is in accor
dance with a decision of the Universal Church or with the testimony
 of Sacred Scripture or at least with the specific ritual of a church or
 general custom, which according to Augustine should be considered as a
 law.660 (This is why, when the Bishop of the Angles661 complained that
 the Church had various customs in celebrating the Mass, St. Gregory
 wrote in response to him, “The decision is that if you have found in
 the Church of Rome or of the Gauls or in any Church something that
 could be more pleasing to God, you should select it carefully.” For the
 659 It was held that the later Christian religion was “prefigured” in the rituals laid down for the
 Jews by God in the Old Testament, and hence medieval exegesis tended to see (often in a
 rather far-fetched way) Christian practices being mentioned in a “figurative” way in the Old
 Testament.
 660 In one letter (Letter 26 [86], quoted in Decretum 1.11.7), Augustine says that in the absence
 of apostolic authority, the “ancestral custom of the people of God” should be upheld. While
 he does say that this should be upheld as law, two other letters make it clear that he refers
 to universally accepted customs and not to local variants. In one letter (Letter 118, quoted in
 Decretum 1.12.11), he states that when a custom cannot be attributed to the apostles or to the
 decision of an ecumenical council and is not contrary to the faith or to morality, it is indifferent
 whether it is followed, so one may as well do so to fit in with one’s neighbors, but in a second
 letter (Letter 119, quoted in Decretum 1.12.12) he asserts that all locally varying customs whose
 origins cannot be discerned should be ruthlessly abolished. While one may be uncertain as to
 whether Augustine wouldhaveconsidered the practices discussed here to be consonant with the
 faith and morality and thus worthy of being followed, he most certainly did not grant blanket
 legitimacy to such observances.
 661 I.e., of the newly converted Angles and Saxons in Britain.
Part II 182A–C
 469
 various customs of the Church in the worship of God are in no way
 repugnant to the truth and should for this reason be maintained, and it
 is unlawful to neglect them.) Therefore, since the very ancient customs
 of the Churches of France and of certain Churches of Germany have
 decided, as was mentioned in the beginning, to carry the Eucharist to
 calm the wind, it will not be possible for this to be unlawful, though
 it should not take place in the open but in a concealed and locked
 chapel.
 The fourth rule is that an examination should be made of whether
 the work that is being done has a natural property leading to the effect
 that is expected. Otherwise, if it does not, it is considered superstitious.
 On the basis of this consideration, unknown characters and suspect 182B
 names, as well as astrological and nigromantic images, are all rejected as
 beingsuspect. Therefore,wecannotsayonthebasisofthisconsideration
 that the carrying of relics or of the Eucharist against harassments at the
 hands of the Devil is superstitious. Rather, it is very religious, since all
 our salvation against the Foe662 is contained in them.
 The fifth rule is that care should be taken that the work that is being
 done should not provide an opportunity for scandal or spiritual ruin,
 because in that case, even if it was not superstitious, the scandal would
 still cause it to be omitted or postponed or carried out in secret without
 scandal. Therefore, if this carrying can be done without scandal or at
 least secretly, then it should not be neglected. For the result of this rule
 is often that blessings consisting of devout words, whether said over ill
 people or intended for tying onto theneck,663 are neglected (by laymen).
 I say “neglected” because they are not at any rate performed in public in
 situations where they could give an opportunity for spiritual ruin among
 simple people.664
 Letthesestatementssufficeforthetopicofremediesagainsthailstorms
 through lawful words and works.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Ch. 7:
 Aq. Summa 2/2.93.1, 2
 Nider, Ant Hill 5.4
 Praec. 1.11.9, 23, 26, 28, 34
 William of Auvergne, De Legibus 27]
 662 I.e., the Devil.
 663 For such amulets, see 173B–C.
 664 I.e., laymen.
 182C
470
 The Hammer of Witches 182C–183A
 certain hidden remedies against certain hidden
 vexations on the part of demons
 Chapter Eight
 ONCE again judgment isbeingsuspended in order to describe
 remedies against certain injuries to the fruits of the earth. These injuries
 are inflicted sometimes through worms665 and sometimes through
 insects that fly in the air over long stretches of the earth in swarms,
 so that they seem to cover its surface, consuming all the plant matter
 consisting both of vines and of the crops in the fields and grass down
 to the roots. Also, remedies for babies exchanged through the work of
 demons.
 182D
 183A
 As for the first, it should be said that when St. Thomas asked whether
 it is lawful to adjure an unreasoning creature (Second of Second,Q.90
 [Summa2/2.90.3.Co.]), he answered that it is, but by way of compelling
 them. In this case, such compulsion ought to be applied to the Devil,
 whousesunreasoningcreaturestoharmus.Thisisthemethodofadjura
tion in the Church’s exorcisms, through which the power of the demons
 is debarred fromunreasoningcreatures.Forifintention wereascribed to
 the unreasoning creature, such intention would be vain in terms of the
 creature, since it understandsnothing.Hence,oneisgiventounderstand
 that these creatures can be repelled through lawful exorcisms and adjura
tions (with the assistance of God’s mercy), so that fasts, processions and
 other acts of devotion should first be enjoined on the congregation. For
 evils are inflicted on account of acts of adultery and the increase in such
 crimes, and therefore people should also be encouraged to make con
fessions. In certain provinces, excommunications are fulminated, but in
 that case they acquire the force of an adjuration concerning the demons.
 There is also another terrifying form of permission granted by God
 concerning humans. In certain instances, demons remove women’s chil
drenandyoungstersfromthemandsubstituteotherpeople’s.Thesechil
dren are called “changelings” by the common people (“Wechselkinder”
 in German), and they are divided into three categories. Some are always
 scrawny wailers, and the milk supply of four women would not suffice
 to suckle one. Othersareproducedthroughtheworkofdemons,though
 the children are not theirs but belong to the human male whose seed
 665 In the broader medieval significance of flightless insects and other invertebrate vermin, a sense
 conveyed by the word “bugs.”
Part II 183A–C
 471
 they took as succubi or by polluting the men in dreams.666 With God’s
 permission they sometimes substitute these suppositious children after
 removing the real667 children. There is also a third kind in instances
 where the demons attach themselves to wet nurses in the guise of small
 ones. All three kinds share the trait of being very heavy. They are thin
 and do not grow, and, as has already been stated, no supply of milk can
 suckle them. It is also frequently said that they have disappeared into
 thin air.
 Why does God’s piety permit such things? It can be said that there
 are two reasons. The first is that the parents love the children excessively,
 and so these things are permitted for their benefit. The second is that it
 is to be presumed that women of the kind to whom such things happen
 are mostly superstitious and are led astray by the demons in many other
 regards. Hence,theLordistrulyjealousaccordingtothepropermeaning
 of jealousy, which is the strong love felt for the betrothed. For this reason
 not only does God not tolerate another man to approach her, but like 183B
 a husband He is jealous of the soul that He bought with His precious
 blood and betrothed through the Faith, being incapable of enduring
 mere signs of adultery or the suspicion of touching, conversing with or
 in any way approaching His enemy, the Devil, who is the opponent of
 Salvation. If a jealous husband does not tolerate any signs of adultery,
 how much more is He upset when she commits adultery? Hence, it
 is no wonder if their own children are removed and substituted with
 adulterous offspring.
 Indeed, to emphasize these facts more strongly, the extent to which
 God is jealous of the soul and is unwilling to tolerate signs that even
 give rise to suspicion is clear from the Old Law.668 To remove His people
 completely from idolatry, in the Old Law He banned not only idolatry
 but also many things that could provide an opportunity for idolatry.
 These prohibitions do not seem to have any benefit in themselves, but
 they retain it miraculously in their mystical meaning. Hence, not only
 didHesay,“Youwillnottoleratesorcererstoliveupontheearth”(Exodus
 22[:18]) but He also added, “He should not live in your land, in case he
 might make you sin” [Exodus 23:33], just as a harlot is killed and not 183C
 permitted to wander promiscuously among men. Note the jealousy of
 666 I.e., through causing men to ejaculate during sleep (so-called “nocturnal emission”) rather than
 by pretending to be a woman with whom they imagine themselves to be having sex and then
 ejaculate (cf. 109D).
 667 Literally “their own,” it being unclear whether the mothers or the fathers or both are meant.
 668 I.e., the Law of Jews as laid out in the Old Testament.
472
 The Hammer of Witches 183C–D
 GodinDeuteronomy22[:6–7].Heorderedthatthey669 shouldnotkeep
 both a nest containing eggs or young chicks and the mother brooding
 abovethem,butshouldletthemotherflyaway,becausethegentilesused
 to interpret this as asignoffertility orbarrenness.670 InHisjealousy,God
 did notwishtotolerate such a sign of adultery amongHisPeople. Inthis
 way, old womentodayjudgethefindingofapennytobeasignofagreat
 windfall and judge the opposite when they dream of a treasure trove.
 Also, He ordered all vessels to be covered and a jar without a lid to be
 considered unclean [Numbers 19:15]. There is the erroneous belief that
 when demons (“die Seligen” [“the blessed ones”], as the old women call
 them, but these are in fact sorceresses or demons in their guise) come
 at night, they have to eat everything, so that they will give a greater
 return later.671 Some people try to color this by calling them “Schretl”
 [“fairies”], but they violate the determination of the Doctors that apart
 from humans and angels there are no other reasoning creatures. Hence,
 they672 can only be demons.
 183D
 Also, Leviticus 19[:27] says, “Do not cut your hair in a circle or shave
 your beard.” For the idol worshippers would perform these acts in
 veneration of the idols.
 Also, Deuteronomy 22[:5] says that men should not wear women’s
 clothes or vice versa, because the women would do so in veneration of
 the goddess Venus and the men in veneration of Mars and the goddess
 Priapis.673
 669 I.e., the Jews.
 670 Oddly enough, the biblical text actually says that the mother is to be released as an omen
 of prosperity and longevity. There is no statement there about pagan interpretations, which
 makes the final clause here a little hard to understand. Since the following sentence clearly
 indicates that the procedure enjoined upon the Jews is taken as a rejection of idolatrous pagan
 practice, presumably the final clause is being understood as indicating the rejected practice
 rather than giving the interpretation of the injunction. (No doubt both the biblical passage and
 the interpretation are dimly understood borrowings.)
 671 These“ladies of the night” represent a widespread element in European folklore. Basically, some
 form of supernatural females were thought to visit homes at night, and would reward good
 housekeeping, while a slovenly house would rouse their ire. The specific interpretation here is
 ultimately based on William of Auvergne, Bees 2.3.24. There it is stated that the “ladies of the
 night” (dominae nocturnae) under the leadership of “Lady Plenty” (Domina Abundia) are said
 to bestow an abundance of temporal goods on houses that they visit, that their approval of
 the household is manifested by their consumption of food and drink, and that for this reason
 superstitiousoldwomenleavejarsandothercontainersuncoveredtofacilitatethisconsumption.
 William strongly condemns this practice, believing these beings to be “evil spirits,” and he
 directly connects this practice with the prohibition in Numbers against leaving jars uncovered.
 Thefailure heretomentionthepracticeofleavingjarsopenforthe“ladiesofthenight”obscures
 the logic of the paragraph.
 672 I.e., the “ladies of the night.”
 673 Priapus was, of course, a male god of the phallus.
Part II 183D–184A
 473
 Also, for this reason He ordered the altars of the idols to be destroyed,
 and when the people wished an offering to be made to a bronze snake,
 Hezekiah destroyed it [2 Kings 18:4], saying, “It is copper.”674 For the
 same reason he prohibited the observance of dreams and of augury and
 instructed that a man or woman in whom there was a pythonic spirit be
 killed (these are now called “Wahrsagerinnen” [“female soothsayers”]).
 All theseactsgiverisetoasuspicionofspiritualadultery,andtherefore,
 as hasbeensaid,GodwasledtoprohibittheseactsbythejealousythatHe
 feels for thesoulsbetrothedtoHim,justasafianc´ efeelsforhisbetrothed.
 In this way we, both as preachers and as curates of souls, ought to note
 that no sacrifice is more welcome to God than the jealousy675 of souls,
 as Jerome bears witness (Commentary On Ezekiel [2.6.1–3]).
 Therefore, the extermination of sorceresses in terms of final remedies
 will next be treated in Part Three of the work. For this very measure is 184A
 the Church’s final refuge, to which it is bound by the instruction of God
 mentioned before: “Do not tolerate sorcerers to live upon the earth”
 [Exodus 22:18]. The remedies against sorcerer archers are also included
 there, since it is also true of this kind that it can only be wiped out
 through the secular arm.
 Remedy when someone vows himself entirely to a demon out of regard
 for temporal advantage676
 Experience has often taught through true confession that although such
 people were freed from the Devil’s power, they were still very severely
 harassed for a long time afterwards, especially at night-time (God per
mitted this as a punishment for them). A sign that they had been freed
 could be recognized in the fact that the money in their purses and strong
 boxes gave out after confession. Many events could be cited with refer
ence to this, but they are left out for the sake of brevity.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Ch. 8:
 Nider, Praec. 1.11.30]
 674 This quotation does not appear in the Bible.
 675 This is another untranslatable play on words. In addition to the sense “jealousy,” the Latin zelus
 also means religious “zeal,” so that the phrase here may mean both the “jealousy for” and the
 “zeal of” souls.
 676 In the table of contents (4D) this section is listed as Ch. 9, but there is no indication of the
 start of a new chapter here.

part iii

477
 part three of the entire work follows, which
 concerns the methods of exterminating them or
 at least punishing them through due justice in
 the ecclesiastical and civil court. it will have
 thirty-five questions, with a general
 introductory one added at the beginning
 [TT] WHETHER sorcerers and those who abet, receive and 184B
 defend them are subject in such a way to the ecclesiastical passing of
 judgment by diocesans1 and to the civil passing of judgment, that the
 inquisitors of heretical depravity can be relieved of conducting an inqui
sition into them.2
 [AG 1] It is argued that this is so.3 In Chapter “Accusatus” §“Sane”
 (LiberSextus)itsays,“SincethebusinessoftheFaith,towhichthehighest
 priority is given, should not be hindered by other activities, inquisitors
 intotheplagueofheresyappointedbytheApostolicSeeshouldnotinter
vene in acts of divination or fortune telling or in punishing those who
 pursue such practices unless they manifestly smack of heresy. Instead,
 1 Simply a synonym for “bishops,” in their capacity as head of a diocese.
 2 This question is poorly conceived because it actually deals with three different issues, and the
 topic is not drawn up very clearly. The main purpose is to argue whether inquisitors may excuse
 themselves from intervening in cases of simple sorcery. The title and arguments 1–6 concern this
 issue, but to it is added the related but separate issue of whether bishops may similarly excuse
 themselves, which is the topic of arguments 7–10. The “sed contra” section then notes that an
 ecclesiastical judge has to intervene, which is strictly speaking beside the point but is taken to
 undermine the bishops’ case.
 This whole issue is clearly of interest to Institoris, who had experienced set-backs in conduct
ing inquisitions through the intervention of the Bishop of Brixen, and concerns the respective
 inquisitorial functions of bishops and inquisitors. Bishops had traditionally been responsible for
 conducting inquisitions (simply the Latin term for “investigations”) into heretical depravity in
 their dioceses, but the failure of many bishops to exercise this authority effectively led to the cre
ation of a separate inquisition in the early thirteenth century. The working relationship between
 bishops and specially appointed inquisitors was at times strained, so a number of decretals (papal
 decrees) were issued to clarify the matter. Here, the argument is made that, while the inquisitors
 maywithdraw from cases involving the Heresy of Sorceresses (because of how tiresome such cases
 are!), the bishops are not allowed to do so and must take part in these cases, even though the
 secular courts are involved because of the losses supposedly inflicted by the sorceresses. At first
 sight, such a solution would hardly seem to make good the difficulties that Institoris had met, if
 it was the bishops who were causing the trouble. But the whole point of the work is to convince
 doubters of the reality of sorcery, and the point is emphasized that ecclesiastical authorities may
 not interfere in the secular court’s execution of the death sentence against such “heretics,” whether
 or not they repent (see 236D).
 3 This statement is further indication of the confused thinking in this question. This discussion is
 clearly set out as a formal disputed question, and by the conventions of this method of discourse,
 the initial statement should introduce the false conclusion, which will first be supported by false
 reasons and then refuted along with a point-by-point demolition of the false reasons. But as it
 turns out, the “rebuttals” at the end all support arguments 1–6, but reject 7–10.
478
 The Hammer of Witches 184B–D
 184C
 184D
 they should leave such people to be punished by the judges responsible
 for them.” There appears to be no obstacle in the fact that the Heresy of
 Sorceresses is not explicitly mentioned in the passage, both because they
 are punished with the same penalties in the forum of the conscience4
 (“If the sin of the diviners and sorcerers is hidden, forty days’ penance
 intervenes; if it is notorious, the Eucharist is denied, and the same judg
mentis decreed for those covered by the same penalty”: “Consecration,”
 Distinction 2,“Pro Dilectione”)5 and also because there seems to be the
 same instance of guilt in each case, since sorceresses expect and demand
 from demons harm to creatures, just as fortune-tellers receive a judg
ment bylot.6 Thus, in each case they demand unlawfully from creatures
 what should be asked of God alone, and for this reason in each case
 there is the sin of idolatry. In this sense it is noted in Ezekiel 21[:21] that
 the king of Babylon stood at a crossroads at the head of two roads and
 questioned the idols by making a pile of arrows.7
 [AG 2] Also, if it is said that when the chapter says, “unless they
 manifestly smack of heresy,” it is making a restriction about diviners
 and fortune-tellers in terms of the crime of heresy, in which they are
 subject to the passing of judgment by inquisitors, and, hence, heretical
 diviners andfortune-tellersatleastaresubjecttothem,theoppositeisthe
 case, because in that case diviners by art8 would have to be presupposed,
 but these are not mentioned anywhere in the Scriptures.9
 [AG 3] Also, if sorceresses are subject to the passing of judgment by
 inquisitors, the reason for this would be the crime of heresy, but that the
 deedsofsorceressescanbeperformedwithoutheresyisprovenasfollows.
 TramplingtheBodyofChristinthemud,whichisaveryhorriblesin,can
 be performed without error in the intellect, and therefore also without
 heresy, since it is definitely the case that the person believes that the Body
 4 I.e., the confessional (see Pt. ii n. 421).
 5 The canon in question says nothing of the kind, and since the same punishment is ascribed to it
 earlier in the work (9C), this error must derive from an intermediate source on canon law.
 6 I.e., when fortune-tellers predict the future by selecting lots, an activity whose accuracy here is
 assumed and attributed to the work of demons.
 7 I.e., when the future is predicted through the selection of arrows instead of lots.
 8 Forthedistinctionbetweendivinationthroughartanddivinationthroughinvocationofademon,
 see 187A.
 9 This argument is based (somewhat confusingly) on the refutation of a putative counter argument
 that would assert that the canon does specify episcopal inquisitions into diviners if they smack of
 heresy. This is rejected on the grounds that the distinction between heretical and non-heretical
 diviners is equivalent to a distinction between divination by invocation of demons and divination
 by art, and that the second distinction is invalid because there is no mention of divination by art
 in the Bible and accordingly the first distinction is likewise invalid. Naturally, the logic of this
 rebuttal is specious, since the equation of the two distinctions is groundless.
Part III 184D–185B
 479
 is there and casts it into the mud to gratify a demon in accordance with
 some agreement in order to obtain some desired goal, such as finding a
 treasure trove or the like. Similarly, the deeds of sorceresses can also be
 performedwithouterrorintheFaith(thoughnotwithoutgreatsin),and
 in that case they clearly escape the passing of judgment by inquisitors
 and are left to the judges responsible for them.
 [AG 4] Also, Solomon offered reverence to the gods of his wives to
 gratify them but did not thereby incur the apostasy that consists of
 breach of the Faith, because he was faithful in mind and always retained
 the Faith, and similarly sorceresses should not be called heretics because
 of the reverence that they offer to the Devil on account of an agreement
 entered into with him if they retain the Faith in mind.
 [AG5] Also, if it is said that all sorceresses have to renounce the Faith
 and should therefore be judged to be heretics, the contrary is the case,
 because in the situation where they have renounceditinheartandmind,
 they should still be called not heretics but apostates, and since there is
 a difference between a heretic and an apostate, and since only heretics 185A
 are subject to the passing of judgment by inquisitors, clearly sorceresses
 escape the passing of judgment by them.
 [AG6]Also,in26,Q.5,[Decretum2.26.5.12] it says, “Let bishops and
 their ministers strive to completely root out from their parishes the art of
 fortune-telling and magic, which was invented by the Devil, and if they
 f
 ind some man or woman to be a sectary of this crime, let them shame
 that person with disgrace and expel him from their parishes” and so on.
 When the chapter says, “let them leave them to the judges responsible
 for them,” it speaks in the plural with reference to both the ecclesiastical
 and civil law,10 and therefore, at least in the cited chapter, sorceresses are
 made subject to the passing of judgment by diocesans.11
 If the diocesans wish to relieve themselves of the task in the way that
 the arguments already cited seem to justify the inquisitors in doing this,
 andif they wish toremitthepunishing ofsorceresses to temporal judges,
 these arguments make it acceptable for them to do so.12
 [AG7]It is stated in Chapter “Ut inquisitionis” § “Prohibemus”: “We
 also quite strictly forbid the aforementioned temporal lords and rulers
 and their officials to hold a trial or pass judgment themselves in any 185B
 10 Throughout Pt. 3, “civil” law signifies the “secular” law exercised by the state as opposed to the
 church’s “canon” law.
 11 The chapter referred to here is the famous Canon Episcopi (see Pt. 1,n.151), which in fact says
 nothing about “leaving them to the judges responsible for them.”
 12 Schnyder (1993), 227 takes this paragraph as a further point in the sixth argument.
480
 The Hammer of Witches 185B–C
 way concerning this crime, since it is purely ecclesiastical” (here the text
 is speaking of heresy). It follows, then, that when a crime is not purely
 ecclesiastical, as is the crime in the case of sorceresses of this kind, they
 ought to be punished by a civil and not an ecclesiastical judge because
 of the temporal losses that are caused by them.13
 [AG 8] Also, in Chapter of the Code “Jews” it says in the last line at
 the end, “Let a person who will assail the Faith of Christ with perverted
 teachingseehispossessionssoldatauction,andheisthentobeconsigned
 to the penalty of blood”14 [Code of Justinian, 1.9.18.3]. It is not a valid
 objection to insist that the law is speaking of converted Jews who return
 to the practice of the Jews. Rather, the argument is thereby strengthened
 because a civil judge has to punish such people on account of their
 apostasy from the Faith, and therefore he also has to punish sorceresses
 as renouncers of the Faith, since renunciation of the Faith in whole or
 part lays the foundation for sorceresses.
 185C
 [AG9]Also,althoughitissaidinthe“solution”section15 thatapostasy
 and heresy are to be taken as the same thing, it is still the civil and not
 the ecclesiastical judge who has to intervene in their case. Fornoone
 should take advantage of a question of heresies to disturb the congrega
tion; rather, the governor should make provision by himself (Authentic,
 “Imperial Commands,” Collation16 3, §“Neque occasione,” where it says,
 “Nor should you17 allow anyone to take advantage of a question involv
ing religion and heresy to disturb the province or otherwise allow some
 injunction to be made on the province which you govern. Rather you
 yourself will make sure both to make an investigation with due benefit
 to the affairs of the treasury and to other factors and not to permit our
 injunctions to be interfered with on grounds involving religion.”). It is
 clear from the foregoing that no one but the governor should concern
 himself with someone who assails the Faith.18
 [AG 10] Also, if trying, passing judgment on and punishing these
 sorceresses did not pertain in their entirety to a civil judge, how could
 13 Schnyder (1993), 227, does not recognize this argument, and hence his numbering of the subse
quent arguments is one lower than the count here.
 14 The sense is not necessarily the literal shedding of blood but any sort of physical punishment
 (esp. burning).
 15 I.e., the “response” (see 191D).
 16 Medieval subdivision of the Code of Justinian.
 17 I.e., the governor to whom the ruling was addressed.
 18 This discussion concerns the provisions made in Late Antiquity for the Roman Empire and
 preserved in the Code of Justinian. While this code was theoretically valid in the Holy Roman
 Empire, even there its administrative provisions would be irrelevant.
Part III 185C–186A
 481
 the laws19 concern themselves with these three areas? For Laws “Nemo,”
 “Culpa,” and “Nullus” of the Chapter of the Code “Sorcerers,”20 [Code
 of Justinian, 9.18.5, 8, 3] subject all those whom the common people
 call “sorcerers” to the death penalty, and the Law “Multi”[9.18.6] also
 decrees that those who prey on the life of the innocent through the
 magic art are to be exposed to the beasts; that they ought to be subjected
 to interrogation and questioning under torture; that anyone should 185D
 be allowed to accuse them; and that no one among the faithful should
 associate with them under penalty of exile and loss of all property; along
 with many other associated penalties that will come to the notice of
 anyone who reads those laws.
 [SC 1] On the contrary and in support of the truth, the Doctors of
 the Laws21 are able to remit the punishment of these sorceresses to an
 ecclesiastical judge, so that both judges must try and pass judgment
 jointly.22 This is proven as follows. In a crime under Canon law, the
 governor hastodecidewiththemetropolitan23 andnotthemetropolitan
 byhimselfbutinconjunctionwiththegovernor.Thisismadeclearinthe
 Authentic “Imperial Commands” §“Si vero”: “If, on the other hand, the
 matter under investigation involves the Canon, you will make provision
 to settle and decide this together with the metropolitan of the province,
 whether it is bishops who have doubts”– (gloss: “‘in the Faith,’ in which
 case he will conduct the trial alone”)– “or certain others”– (gloss: “then
 the bishop by himself with the governor will conduct the trial”)– “and
 to finish the case with an end that is pleasing to and appropriate for God
 and will both guard the Orthodox24 Faith appropriately and ensure 186A
 security against loss for the interests of the treasury and preserve our
 19 I.e., of the Code of Justinian.
 20 Once again, there is ambiguity in the Latin, which means “evil-doer” in terms of the law, but is
 the same word used throughout the Malleus to describe “sorcerers.”
 21 I.e., both civil and canon law.
 22 Schnyder (1993), 229, considers this paragraph to be an elaboration of the preceding argument
 (number 9 by his reckoning), but it is unclear what the logic of the whole would then be, and in
 any case (and regardless of any considerations regarding the actual content of this and the next
 two arguments, which contradict what precedes) the absence of any “sed contra” section violates
 the regular practice format for a disputed question.
 23 Under the Roman Empire, the metropolitan was the bishop of the city in which the governor
 resided, and when the secular and ecclesiastical administrations were brought somewhat into
 conformity with one another in the fourth and fifth centuries, the metropolitan came to acquire
 a certain precedence over his episcopal colleagues in the province.
 24 UndertheRomanEmpire,theterms“orthodox”and“catholic”werebothappliedtotheofficially
 recognizedformofChristianity,andonlymuchlaterdotheycometobedistinguished,theformer
 referring to the Church of the Greek-speaking Byzantine Empire and the latter to the Roman
 Church of the Latin-speaking Western Europe.
482
 The Hammer of Witches 186A–B
 subjects inviolate”– (gloss: “that is, that they should not corrupt them
 in the Faith”) [Novels 17.11].
 [SC 2] Also, although it is the secular prince who punishes with the
 penalty of blood, this does not preclude the judgment of the Church,
 whose task it is to conduct the trial and reach the definitive judgment.25
 Rather, it necessarily presupposes this, as is clear in Chapter of the Code
 “Supreme Trinity and Catholic Faith,”26 first law at the end [Liber Extra
 1.1], and in Extra, Chapter “Ad abolendam,” Chapter “Vergentis”, the
 f
 irst and second Chapters “Excommunicamus.” Rather, there is the same
 penalty according to the laws andtheCanon,asisclearintheChapterof
 the Code “Heretics,” Laws “Manichaeos” and “Arriani”[Code of Justinian
 1.5.4, 5]. Hence, the punishment of these people also pertains to them,
 especially when they act jointly and not separately.
 [SC 3] Also, while the laws decree that clerics should be corrected
 by their own judges and not by temporal (secular) ones, because in the
 case of clerics any crime is considered to be ecclesiastical, the crime of
 sorceresses, being partly civil and partly ecclesiastical, on account of the
 temporal losses and of the Faith that they violate, pertains to judges of
 each side for trial, passing of judgment and punishment.27
 186B
 The reasoning is strengthened by the provision of the Authentic (“Ut
 clerici apud proprios iudices” Collation 6 § “Si vero”[Novels 83.1.1/Auth.
 84.6.11.1]), where it says, “If the crime is an ecclesiastical one merit
ing ecclesiastical chastisement and fining, let a bishop pleasing to God
 decide the matter without any participation on the part of the high
ranking judges of the province. For We do not wish civil judges to take
 cognizance of such cases at all, since it is fitting for them to be exam
ined ecclesiastically and for the souls of the wrong-doers to be corrected
 throughecclesiastical penaltyaccordingtothesacredrulesofGod,which
 Our laws28 do not disdain to follow.” Hence, conversely, a mixed crime
 should be punished by both sides.
 [CO] Response. Our main intention in this work is, as far as this can
 be done with God’s consent, to relieve us inquisitors for the regions of
 Upper Germany of the task of conducting inquisitions into sorceresses
 (because of the laboriousness of the business) by leaving them for pun
ishment to the judges responsible for them, so long as provision for the
 25 Schnyder (1993), 228, takes this as the tenth argument for the false solution to the question.
 26 In the Code of Justinian, this title provides the government’s definition of orthodoxy in order to
 allow for the legal suppression of heterodox views.
 27 Argument 11 by the numbering of Schnyder (1993), 228.
 28 I.e., Imperial laws.
Part III 186B–D
 483
 security of the Faith against loss and for the salvation of souls is not
 thereby undermined, and this is the reason why we have undertaken
 the present work, leaving to these judges the methods of conducting
 trials and passing the definitive judgment and sentence. Therefore, in 186C
 order to show that bishops may institute proceedings against sorcer
esses in many instances even without the participation of inquisitors
 (although bishops may not institute such proceedings without temporal
 andcivil judgmentininstanceswherepunishmentextendstothepenalty
 of blood), it is a good idea to adduce the views29 of certain inquisitors in
 various kingdoms in the Iberian peninsula30 and (with all due respect,
 since we all serve in the Order of Preachers) to rebut them, so that a
 clearer understanding of the details will result.
 It is their view that all sorceresses, fortune-tellers, diviners, nigro
mancers, and in short all those who are categorized under any sort of
 divination, who, once they have taken up and professed the Holy Faith,
 are subject to the passing of judgment by them, so that in the three
 procedures that are noted in Chapter “Multorum querela” (at the begin
ning of the Title “Heretics” in the Clementines) the inquisitor cannot
 in fact carry on with the procedure without the bishop nor the bishop
 without the inquisitor, although in five other procedures one is able to
 do so without the other (if someone wishes to, let him read the chapter
 and he will find the provisions).31 One of the three procedures is the 186D
 definitive sentence, to which the onemaynotproceedwithouttheother.
 This is in situations where the accused are to be considered as belonging
 to any of the categories of heretic mentioned above. On top of this,
 they add blasphemers and those who invoke demons in any way, and
 excommunicates whohaveintentionally remained excommunicate with
 an obstinate spirit for a year in a matter that does or does not involve the
 29 Note the use here of the derogatory word opinio, which implies that the view is not correct.
 30 At this time divided among the crowns of Castile, Aragon and Portugal. The reference here
 is unlikely to have anything to do with the Spanish Inquisition, which was instituted in 1478
 by Pope Sixtus IV at the insistence of Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile to deal
 with the problem of large numbers of converted Jews and Moslems, who were believed to be
 secretly practicing the religion of their ancestors. Despite references to Spanish inquisitors in
 the plural, all that is meant here are the views of Nicholas Eymeric, the Spanish Dominican
 whose handbook for inquisitors, the Directorium Inquisitorum, formed the major source for this
 part of the Malleus. In Qs. 3.41, 42 and 43, Eymeric deals with the inquisitorial treatment of
 blasphemers, fortune-tellers and diviners, and the invokers of demons, the three categories of
 malefactor which are here denied to be subject to the inquisition. (Cf. 249D, where arguments
 of Eymeric are anonymously ascribed to “certain people.”)
 31 The references in this paragraph are to Pt. 2 of Eymeric’s Directorium Inquisitorum, where he
 discusses how various categories of people are subject to the jurisdiction of inquisitors. Q. 2.42
 deals with “fortune-tellers and diviners.”
484
 The Hammer of Witches 186D–187A
 Faith, under three specific circumstances.32 They include many other
 instances in which the authority of the ordinaries is greatly reduced and
 further burdens are imposed upon us inquisitors.33 This would make us
 less secure before the Terrifying Judge, Who will clearly demand from
 us a strict accounting of the office entrusted to us.34
 Because their view will not be rebutted unless the foundation they
 use for it is abolished, it is to be noted that they receive their main
 foundation through the glossators on the Canons, especially on Chapter
 “Accusatus” § “Sane” and on the words “heresim sapiant manifeste” [“they
 manifestly smack of heresy”]. In addition they find their foundation in
 the words of the theologians Thomas, Albert and Bonaventure in the
 Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 7. It is a good idea to cite
 some of these specifically.
 187A
 Whenthechaptersays,aswas citedinArgumentOne,thatinquisitors
 of heretical depravity should not intervene in acts of fortune-telling and
 divination unless they manifestly smack of heresy, they say there are two
 varieties of fortune-tellers and diviners, those who use art and those who
 are heretical.35 The first are called mere diviners in that they act merely
 on the basis of an art,36 and these are spoken of in Chapter “Ex Tenore”
 (Extra, Title “Fortune-Tellers”), where it says that the priest Uldaricus
 wenttoasecretlocationwithapersonofbadreputation(“withadiviner,”
 says the gloss), not with the intention of invoking a demon (as if it were
 saying that this would be heretical), but in order to find some stolen
 item through examination of an astrolabe37 (as if it were saying that this
 is mere divination or fortune-telling). The second group of diviners are
 called heretical, because in their art they give some honor consisting
 32 Eymeric’s Qs. 2.41, 43 and 47 deal respectively with “blasphemers,” “those who invoke demons,”
 and “excommunicates who remain in excommunication for a year with an obstinate spirit for a
 year.” Presumably, these questions in particular are cited explicitly because they treat topics that
 could be relevant to the Heresy of Sorceresses.
 33 This refers to topics treated by Eymeric that are not relevant to the issue at hand: “Christians
 who go over or return to the rite of the Jews” (2.44), “Christians who go over to the sect of
 the Saracens” (2.45), and “Whether infidels who commit crimes in violation of the Christian
 religion are subject to the jurisdiction of inquisitors” (2.46).
 34 For this idea, see 2B.
 35 This paragraph deals with a section of Eymeric 2.42 (“Fortune-Tellers and Diviners”), and the
 argument made here is simply Eymeric’s alone and is not based on the canonists or theologians
 mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
 36 As examples, Eymeric cites those who divine and make judgments about natural effects and the
 circumstances of a person on the basis of “chiromancy” (“the lines of the hand”), and those who
 use the “evenness or unevenness” of warts to divine something that is present but considered
 hidden.
 37 Aninstrument for making astronomical observations, esp. determining the elevation of celestial
 bodies.
Part III 187A–C
 485
 of service (worship) to the demons and attempt to predict the future
 through divination or follow some similar practice which manifestly
 smacks of heresy. Such diviners are subject to the passing of judgment
 by inquisitors, just like other heretics.
 Theyusetheglossesofthecanonistsonthewordsaperent[“theywould 187B
 smack”] to prove that this is the sense of the chapter. John Andreae says
 the following on the cited Chapter “Accusatus” and the word saperent:
 “‘They would smack’: for example, uttering unspeakable prayers at the
 altars of idols, offering sacrifices, consulting demons, and accepting their
 responses. They adopt heretics as companions in order to use the divina
tory lots, or they perform these acts with the Blood or Body of Christ,38
 or in the case of lots they rebaptize a child in order to get responses,
 or the like.” In the same sense they cite the Archdeacon on the same
 Chapter, §“Sane,” on this same word, “saperent.” They also cite John
 Monachi, Raymund, and William of Montlezun.39
 Also, they offer as proof the determination of the Church at the
 Council of Acquira40 (26,Q.5,“Episcopi”), where superstitious women
 of this kind are called infidels. The text says, “Would that they had died
 alone in their breach of the Faith!” and breach of the Faith is called
 heresy in the case of a Christian. Hence, they are subject to the passing
 of judgment by the inquisitors of heretics.41
 In addition, they offer theologians as proof, first using St. Thomas
 in Commentary on Pronouncements,Bk.2, Dist. 7 [Summa 2.7.3.2.Co.],
 whereheaskswhetheritisasintousethehelpofdemons.There,among 187C
 other words, he says on Isaiah 8[:19] (“Will the people not need a vision
 from their God?”), “In all matters in which the fulfillment of a work is
 38 I.e., the transubstantiated wine and bread of the eucharist.
 39 These authorities are all cited in succession by Eymeric in his discussion of those who invoke
 demons (2.43). (In between John Monachi and William of Montlezun appears a discussion of
 the non-heretical nature of love magic, which is omitted as irrelevant to the topic; for the content
 of this see n. 496.)
 40 See Pt. 1 n. 402.
 41 Actually, this is a misrepresentation of what Eymeric says. He argues that the Canon Episcopi
 categorizes the “criminal woman” that it discusses as “deviating from the Christian way,” which
 constitutes heresy in a Christian, and then he makes an a fortiori argument in the form of a
 rhetorical question. Since the canon says this of these women even though it is not proven (non
 constat) that they show honor to demons and make sacrifices to them after invoking them, how
 much more is it the case that those who commit such acts are heretics? Eymeric’s point is to
 demonstrate that those whodohonordemonsinthiswayaresubjecttoinquisitorialjurisdiction,
 but his argument implies that it is by no means clear that the women discussed in the Canon
 Episcopi commitsuchacts,andsincethatthiscanonwasapparentlycitedbythosewhodeniedthe
 existence of sorcery and such efforts are consequently taken to assert the “correct” interpretation
 of the canon (e.g., 8B), it would hardly do to have its relevance called into question, as Eymeric’s
 argument does.
486
 The Hammer of Witches 187C–188A
 expected from the virtue of a demon, there is apostasy from the Faith
 because of the agreement entered into with the demon, either merely by
 word if an invocation is involved, or by some deed, even if sacrifices are
 not involved.”42 To the same effect they cite Albert on the same work
 and distinction, Peter of Bonaventure who has recently been canonized
 (he is not called Peter, though this was his real name),43 Alexander of
 Hales and Guido of the Order of Carmelites. These all say that those
 who invoke demons are apostates and consequently heretics, and they
 are therefore subject to the passing of judgment by the inquisitors of
 heretics.
 187D
 188A
 The following proves that neither these citations nor any other argu
ments made by these inquisitors prove satisfactorily that such fortune
tellers and the rest cannot be subject to the passing of judgment by
 ordinaries (bishops) without the participation of inquisitors, and that
 the inquisitors can relieve themselves of the task of conducting an inqui
sition into such diviners, nigromantics or sorcerers. (Not that those
 inquisitors who conduct such inquisitions when the bishops do not do
 so are acting wrongly. In such a situation, they are rather to be com
mended.) Inquisitors ought to intervene only in the crime of heresy, and
 at the same time this crime must be manifest. This is clear from the
 frequently cited Chapter “Accusatus,” §“Sane.” If this position stands,
 in turn the argument is made that in a situation where someone com
mits crimes that can be committed without heresy, however serious and
 heinous such crimes may be, the criminal should still not be judged
 as a heretic, though he should be punished. From this it follows that
 whensomeoneshouldnotbejudgedasahereticbutshouldbepunished
 as a criminal, the inquisitor should not intervene. Rather, he ought to
 leave the punishment of such a person to the judges responsible for him
 according to the text of the Canon. If this position in turn stands, it
 follows that unless all the acts included by the glossators, canonists and
 theologians, like invoking demons, sacrificing to them and so on (as
 described above), derive from the vice of heresy, inquisitors should not
 42 This quotation, borrowed and abridged from Eymeric, has been somewhat distorted. Aquinas’s
 words are not a gloss on the biblical quotation (which simply is cited at the end of the earlier
 part of the quotation, which is omitted here). Instead, his words apply to “all magical works.”
 43 I.e.,thescholasticnamedPeterofBonaventure,whodiedin1274andhadrecentlybeencanonized
 under the name St Bonaventure in 1482. The exhibition of this little piece of erudition is
 apparently motivated by the fact that in the passage of Eymeric adapted here, Eymeric repeatedly
 gives a title (e.g., where the man was bishop or what monastic order he belonged to) for the
 authorities he cites, and while most of these are omitted here, the author wanted to show that
 he too was conversant with such matters.
Part III 188A–B
 487
 intervene but should leave them to the judges responsible for them (as
 above). If this position in turn stands, then since these crimes can very
 often be committed without the vice of heresy, in that case those who
 commit them should not be considered or pardoned as heretics, which
 is demonstrated by the following authorities and reasonings.
 Five conditions are needed for someone to be properly speaking a
 heretic. Thefirstisthatthereshouldbeanerrorinreasoning.Thesecond
 is that this error should concern matters of the Faith and be contrary
 to the truth of the Church’s determination in matters pertaining to the
 Faith or morality or the necessities for attaining eternal life. The third
 is that this error should be in a person who has professed the Catholic
 Faith. Otherwise he would be a Jew or a pagan, not a heretic. The fourth
 is that the error in one who has undertaken the Faith should be such
 that he still avows some truth about Christ concerning His divinity or
 humanity. Otherwise, if he disbelieves the whole matter, he would be
 an apostate. The fifth is that he should chose and follow this error with
 a determined and obstinate will.
 ThattheChapter“Accusatus” andtheword“saperent”are understood 188B
 to concern heresy and a heretic taken in this sense is proven as follows
 (here the glosses of the canonists are not refuted but upheld). The first
 condition (error in understanding) is known to everyone through the
 common rule that two things are required for someone to be called a
 heretic. The first relates to the subject matter, that is, error in reasoning;
 the second relates to the form, that is, obstinacy in will.44 This is made
 clear by Augustine [Utility of Believing 1.1]:45 “A heretic is one who begets
 or follows new and false opinions.”
 This conclusion is backed up by reasoning. Heresy is a variety of lack
 of faith, and lack of faith exists as an entity in the understanding in
 the same way that Faith does (opposites of each other must relate to
 the same thing).46 If this position stands, no act or work lacking error
 makes a person a heretic. For example, if someone commits fornication
 or adultery, although he does so contrary to the truth that says, “Thou
 shalt not commit adultery” [Deut. 20:14], he is not thereby a heretic
 unless he believes or holds the opinion that it is lawful to fornicate.
 44 This conception represents a rather odd application of the Thomistic notion that the physical
 matter of the world is turned into objects when the “form” that abstractly determines them is
 “pressed” upon it. It would seem that the general “material” of erroneous thinking is “formed’
 into heresy when it is determined by an obstinate resolve to hold the view.
 45 Quoted in Decretum 2.24.3.28.
 46 For another application of this aphorism of logic, see 92A–B.
488
 The Hammer of Witches 188B–D
 188C
 188D
 There is also the reasoning that in any situation where two pre
requisites are needed to constitute something, when one of these is
 lacking, that thing’s existence is impossible, because if the opposite
 proposition (that it could exist without that pre-requisite) holds true,
 then such a pre-requisite would no longer be needed to constitute the
 thing. For instance, because a foundation, walls and aroofarenecessarily
 needed to constitute a house, when one is lacking, it is not considered a
 house.
 Thus, because an error in understanding is necessarily needed to con
stitute heresy, in the absence of an error in understanding no act can
 make a heretic in the absolute sense. For this reason, we inquisitors in
 Germany say with St. Antoninus, who treats this topic in Part Two of
 his Summa [actually, 3.12.5], that as for baptizing images, worshiping
 demons, burning incense for them, trampling the Body of Christ under
 foot in the mud and all such acts that are very horrible sins, unless there
 is an error in understanding, these acts do not make a person a heretic.
 Accordingly, suppose that someone does such things, for example bap
tize an image, without having a wicked opinion about the Sacrament of
 Baptism or about its effect and without believing that this baptism has
 any substance or has effect because of its power, but does this merely in
 order to attain the more easily some goal from the demon whom he is
 seeking to gratify with this act. Hence, in accordance with some implied
 or express agreement he does this so that the demon will do what he
 asks for himself or to someone else. This would be in accordance with
 the procedure of the magical arts whereby humans invoke demons with
 characters or figures by an overt or implicit agreement to fulfill their
 desires, provided that they do not seek from the demon what is beyond
 his ability in terms of either power or knowledge. That is, the person
 must dothis without having a wicked opinion about the demon’s power
 or knowledge, such as would be the case with those who believe that
 the demon could compel a man’s free will, or those who believe that as
 the result of such an agreement for any purpose whatsoever, the demon
 could, despite not having God’s permission, do what they ask, or those
 whobelieve that he could know the outcome of a future contingency or
 produce an effect that is restricted to God alone. There is no doubt that
 such people would have an error in understanding and a wicked opin
ion about the power of the demon. Consequently, on the assumption
 that the other requirements for heresy are present, these people would
 be heretics and subject to the passing of judgment by ordinaries and
 inquisitors together.
Part III 188D–189B
 489
 If, as commonly happens, people act for the reasons mentioned above
 withouthavingawickedopinionaboutbaptismorothermattersalready 189A
 mentioned, then because the sorcerers and nigromancers, since they
 know the Devil to be the enemy of the Faith and the opponent of
 salvation, necessarily hold in their hearts the view that there is great force
 in the Faith, and because the Faith cannot be subject to any falsehood, of
 which it is common knowledge that the Father of Lies47 alone presides
 over it, then although the people who do such things sin most severely,
 they are nonetheless not heretics. The reasoning is that they do not have
 a wicked opinion about the Sacrament, although they make wicked and
 sacrilegious use of it, and therefore they are fortune-tellers rather than
 heretics and are categorized among those about whom the cited Chapter
 “Accusatus” asserts that they are not subject to the passing of judgment
 by inquisitors since they do not manifestly smack of heresy but barely
 do so in a covert way or in virtually none at all.
 It is the same with those who worship a demon or sacrifice to him,
 because if they do this believing that there is divinity in demons or that
 adoration should be offered to them or that they in any way attain what
 they ask of the Devil as a result of offering such service, regardless of
 God’s prohibition or permission, such people would be heretics. But if
 they do these things without such an opinion about the demon, but in 189B
 order that by some agreement with a demon they may, through these
 acts, more easily obtain from him what they have in mind, the nature of
 the situation means that these people are not heretics, though they sin
 severely.
 For greater explanation, some objections should be raised.
 [AG1]It seems to beanobjection that according to the laws someone
 guilty of simony48 is not a heretic, as is stated in 1,Q. 1 “Quisquis per
 pecuniam,” and yet he has no error in his intellect.49 For a man guilty
 of simony is not properly speaking a heretic but is one in loose sense
 becauseofacertainsimilarity.Forthefactthatheissellingorbuyingholy
 things means that he acts as if he thought that the Gift of Grace could
 be acquired with money, according to Thomas [Summa 2/2.100.1.Ra1].
 47 Yet another circumlocution for the Devil.
 48 The prohibited practice of acquiring an ecclesiastical benefice through purchase.
 49 The reading “is not a heretic” should state exactly the opposite, both because the cited canon
 states that someone guilty of simony is a heretic and because the logic of the passage likewise
 dictates the removal of “not.” However, the fault probably lies with clumsy adaptation of the
 source (Antoninus), who says, “It is no objection that according to the laws someone guilty of
 simony is called a heretic.” When the putative objection was rewritten to indicate that it could
 be raised rather than that it was being rejected outright, the negation was apparently shifted
 erroneously into the content of the objection.
490
 The Hammer of Witches 189B–D
 But if he does not think this, as is commonly the case, he is not a heretic,
 since he does not believe this. It would be quite true that he is a heretic
 if he does believe that the gift of Grace can be acquired with money.
 [AG 2] It seems to be an obstacle that Chapter “Quicumque”
 (“Heretics”) and the cited Chapter “Accusatus” say that someone who
 worships a heretic is a heretic. A person who worships a demon sins
 more severely than does a person who worships a heretic, therefore (and
 so on).
 189C
 189D
 [AG 3] Also, it seems that a person who is to be judged as a heretic is
 a heretic, since the judgment ought to be based in reality. But such50 a
 person is to be judged to be a heretic. The Church can pass judgment
 only on those things that are overt (it is God Who tries and judges
 hidden things: Dist. 33, “Erubescant”), but the things that are in the
 understanding can be revealed only as a result of seeing or proving
 external acts. Therefore, a person who does such things is judged to be
 a heretic.
 [AG 4] Also, it seems to be impossible that someone who does such
 things (trampling on the Body of Christ and the like) does so unless he
 has a wicked opinion about the Body of Christ. This is proven on the
 grounds that it is impossible for there to be evil in the will without there
 being an error in the understanding, since according to the Philosopher
 [Nicomachean Ethics 3.2] every evil person is in fact ignorant or erring.51
 Since, therefore, those who do such things have evil in their will, they
 have an error in their understanding.
 Response to these arguments.52
 First, the first and third because they overlap.
 There are two kinds of judgment, one belonging to God, Who sees
 inner matters, and the other to men, who can pass judgment on inner
 matters only through outer ones, as the third argument admits. Now
 the man who is judged to be a heretic in the judgment of God is truly
 a heretic according to reality, since God judges only a person who has
 an error of the Faith in his understanding to be a heretic. As for the
 person who is judged to be a heretic in the judgment of men, it is
 50 I.e., one who commits outward signs of heresy without meeting the standard of actually holding
 a heretical belief commensurate with the act. The argument goes that since such a person is not
 in fact a heretic according to the view advocated here, he should not be condemned as one.
 51 What Aristotle meant was that since evil was contrary to reason (as he would have it), those who
 commit evil must be mistaken (“erring”) in their thinking. This sense of “erring” has nothing,
 of course, to do with the technical Christian meaning of the word (“deviant in doctrine”).
 52 Theresponses from here to 193B deal with the immediately preceding objections rather than the
 initial arguments laid out in 184B–185D.
Part III 189D–190A
 491
 necessarily the case not that he is a heretic according to reality, but that
 he has committed an act by which it is apparent that he has a wicked
 opinion about the Faith and consequently is considered a heretic by the
 presumption of the law.
 If it is asked whether the Church must immediately make the judg
ment that people who worship demons or baptize images in this way are
 heretics and punish them as such, note the following responses. The first
 is that making such a decision pertains more to canonists than to theolo
gians. While the canonists will say that by the presumption of the law he
 is considered a heretic and should be punished as such, the theologian
 will say in an initial judgment subject to correction by the Apostolic See
 that the answer is no as far as reality is concerned, whatever the case may
 be under the presumption of the law. The following reasoning may be
 adduced. Whenever some effect can depend on two causes, the precise
 cause in reality can never be judged on the basis of that effect. This
 effect (worshiping a demon or asking for his help to inflict sorcery by
 baptizing an image or by offering a live baby or killing it or something
 else of the kind) can derive from two causes: either the belief that the
 demon should be worshipped and sacrifice made to him and that the 190A
 images take on the effects of the Sacraments, or the notion that by some
 agreement made with a demon I bring it about that I will more easily
 obtain what I want from the demon with reference to things that are
 not beyond his ability (as discussed above). Therefore, I53 ought not to
 judge immediately on the basis of such an effect one precise cause (that
 he does this because he has a wicked opinion about the Faith). Hence,
 when there is general agreement about an effect of this kind, a further
 inquisition should be made into the reason. If he did this as a result of
 error and perversity in the Faith, he should be judged to be a heretic
 and is subject to the passing of judgment by inquisitors in conjunction
 with the ordinaries, but if he did so for some other reason, he should be
 judged as a fortune-teller and a very foul sinner.
 Another response to our topic of discussion. Whatever the outcome
 of all the quotations and citations, it is generally agreed that all diviners
 and sorcerers, who are judged to be heretics by the presumption of the
 law and not according to reality, are subject to the passing of judgment
 by ordinaries but not by the inquisitors, and that the inquisitors in other
 kingdoms mentioned above cannot defend themselves on the grounds
 that they judge those who sacrifice to demons and worship them to be
 53 Somewhat confusingly, this “I” is the judge, while the “I” in the preceding sentence refers to the
 purported heretic.
190B
 492
 The Hammer of Witches 190B–C
 heretics by the presumption of the law and not according to reality.
 The text says that they ought to smack manifestly of heresy, that is,
 intrinsically according to reality. It will be sufficient if we inquisitors
 intervene in the cases of heretics tainted according to reality, leaving the
 others to the judges responsible for them.
 190C
 As for the statement that it is necessary to conduct an inquisition into
 the cause, that is, whether or not he did this as the result of error, this
 will clearly be easy. For just as a faithful habit54 is recognized through
 a faithful act (believing in and avowing the matters of the Faith) and a
 chaste habit is recognized through chaste living, the Church can judge
 someone to be a heretic by making an inquisition into whether he has
 an act of disbelieving or holding a wicked opinion about some article
 of the Faith. The same is also the case with the question of whether a
 sorceress, who has renounced the Faith in whole or in part or treated
 the Body of Christ very foully and rendered homage, has performed
 such acts merely to gratify the demon. If, on the other hand, she made
 a complete renunciation in her heart, she will then be judged to be an
 apostate, and the fourth condition that must contribute to someone’s
 being called a heretic properly speaking will be lacking.
 If the bull and document of appointment55 that Innocent VIII drew
 up for us, in which sorceresses are made subject to the passing of judg
ment by inquisitors, is cited as an objection to this determination, the
 response is that diocesans are not excluded by those provisions from
 using the ancient provisions, as has been mentioned, to institute pro
cedures against them up to the point of passing the definitive sentence,
 since this bull was delivered to us inquisitors in furtherance of the care
 that we bestow on the work to the best of our abilities with the help of
 God.56
 [RA 1] Hence, the first argument does not support those inquisitors,
 and instead it comes to the opposite conclusion, since it is only by a
 presumption of the law that the people who are guilty of simony in this
 way are considered heretics. Bishops are able to pass judgment on them
 by themselves without asking for the co-operation of inquisitors, and in
 fact inquisitors should not intervene in the case of people guilty of the
 various forms of simony and, by similar reasoning, in the cases of others
 54 For the sense of “habit” as a general attitude, see Pt. 1 n. 370. In this context, an “act” is a specific
 instance or realization of the general “habit.”
 55 I.e., the Bull Summis desiderantes.
 56 Thedistinction betweennewprovisionsandtheoldprovisionsrefers to the traditional role of the
 bishops in conducting local inquisitions as contrasted with the comparatively recent institution
 of the independent inquisition appointed directly by the pope (see n. 2); cf. 220C, 211A, C.
Part III 190C–191A
 493
 who are judged heretics only by a presumption of the law. For they
 cannot institute proceedings against schismatic bishops or other high
rankingprelates,57 asisexplainedinChapter“Inquisitionis”(LiberSextus,
 “Heretics”), where it says, “Inquisitors of heretical depravity appointed 190D
 by the Apostolic See or by anyone else58 cannot make an inquisition into
 a crime of this nature against bishops or institute proceedings against
 them on these grounds unless it is expressly stated in the Apostolic See’s
 letter of appointment that they have this competence. If, however, such
 inquisitors know or learn that bishops or other high-ranking prelates
 have committed a crime relating to heresy or that they have a reputation
 for such crimes or are suspected of them, they will be obligated to report
 this to the Apostolic See.”
 [RA 2] The response to the second59 is likewise clear from the fore
going. A person who worships a heretic is a heretic if he worships him
 in the belief that he should be worshipped or honored because of his
 doctrine or opinion. If, however, he honors him for the sake of some
 temporal advantage without there being any error concerning the Faith
 in his understanding, he is not properly speaking a heretic, but only by
 a fiction or presumption of the law (by analogy), because he acts as if
 he had a wicked opinion about the Faith, just like the man whom he
 worships. Hence, such a person is not subject to the passing of judgment
 by inquisitors.
 [RA 3] The response to the third60 is clear from the foregoing. 191A
 Although he is judged to be a heretic by the Church on account of
 external acts that have been seen and demonstrated, it does not, how
ever, follow that he is always a heretic in reality. Rather he is considered
 one bythepresumption of the law. Hence, in this case too he escapes the
 passing of judgment by inquisitors, since he does not manifestly smack
 of heresy.
 [RA 4] As for the fourth,61 it should be said that the presupposition
 that it makes, that it is not possible for someone to trample on the Body
 of Christ without having a wicked opinion about or perversity in the
 Faith concerningtheBodyofChrist,isfalse,becausehecandothisinthe
 knowledgethatheiscommittingasinandinthefirmbeliefthattheBody
 of Christ is there, but with the purpose of pleasing a demon and more
 57 But the prohibition against inquisitors conducting inquisitions into the views of high ecclesias
tical dignitaries is irrelevant to the issue at hand.
 58 I.e., bishops who are delegating their duty to conduct inquisitions into heresy.
 59 189B.
 60 189B–C.
 61 189C.
494
 The Hammer of Witches 191A–C
 easily obtaining what he wants from him. Although every wicked person
 errs, he does not do this by an error of understanding, which is heresy,
 or through erring by holding a wicked opinion about matters relating to
 the Faith but by holding such an opinion about matters relating to some
 virtue, the working of whose opposite is counted among the vices. This
 constitutes only the first pre-requisite that is needed for heresy properly
 speaking andresults in a heretic being subject to the passing of judgment
 by inquisitors.
 191B
 191C
 It is no obstacle if it is said that an inquisitor can nonetheless institute
 proceedings against those with a bad reputation concerning heresy or
 those lightly, strongly or violently suspected of it, even in an instance
 where they do not seem to smack manifestly of heresy. The response
 is that he can conduct an inquisition and institute proceedings about
 such people to the extent that they have a bad reputation about heresy
 properly called, which is what we are talking about, as has often been
 stated. This entails an error in understanding along with the following
 four additional circumstances.
 The second of these is that this error must concern matters of the
 Faith or contradict the truth of the Church’s determination in matters
 that pertain to the Faith and morality and are necessary for attaining
 eternal life. If the error concerns things that are not matters of the Faith,
 for example, someone’s belief that the sun is not larger than the earth and
 the like, this is not a dangerous error. On the other hand, anerror against
 Holy Scripture, the Articles of the Faith or the Church’s determination
 (as described above) is heresy (24,Q.1,“Haec est fides”).
 Also, the determination of doubtful points about the Faith is prin
cipally the role of the Church and especially of the Supreme Pontiff,
 the Vicar of Christ and Peter’s Successor, as is explicitly stated in 24,
 Q. 1,“Quotiens,” and no doctor or saintly man defends his pronounce
mentagainst the Church’s determination, as Thomas says (Second of Sec
ond [Summa 2/2.11.2.Ra3])– not Jerome or Augustine or anyone else.62
 Therefore, someone who makes assertions in violation of the Church’s
 determination in matters that pertain to the Faith and are necessary for
 salvation is a heretic, just as is someone who steadfastly makes assertions
 62 This notion of the absolute and indisputable right of the church to make pronouncements that
 deviate from the authority of the patristic age of Late Antiquity (Jerome and Augustine are cited
 here as the most prestigious figures from that time) was to be assailed by humanist religious
 thinkers like Erasmus, whose aesthetic desire to reject contemporary Latinity and return to the
 purity of the works written in antiquity went hand-in-hand with the impulse to “purge” the
 church of usages that arose during the Middle Ages and found no support in the New Testament
 or writings of the church fathers of the patristic age.
Part III 191C
 495
 in violation of the Faith. For it is proven that the Church has never erred
 in the Faith, as it says in Chapter “A recta”(24,Q. 1) and in others.63
 It is distinctly stated that one who makes assertions in violation of the
 Church’s determination not in just any regard but in connection with
 matters that pertain to the Faith and salvation is a heretic. A person is
 not a heretic when he gives a contrary pronouncement in other matters,
 for instance that ownership cannot be separated from usage in connec
tion with things that are consumed by usage, as John XXII explained
 and determined in Extravagantes,“Ad conditorem.”64 There he says that
 those who contradict this opinion are contumacious rebels but not
 heretics.65
 The third thing required is that the error must be in a person who
 has professed the Catholic truth. If someone had never professed the
 Christian Faith, he would not properly speaking be a heretic but simply
 63 This idea is the very crux of the issue at the time of the Reformation. While almost everyone
 in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries agreed that the church as a whole was in need
 of some reform, there was a fundamental disagreement of what this signified. While those who
 were to break with Rome wished to abandon various elements of the medieval traditions of the
 church, on the basis of the principle set out here conservatives rejected out of hand the very
 premise that in its doctrines the church could have fallen into error.
 64 Francis of Assisi was a strong advocate of following Jesus’ example in abandoning all goods and
 criticized the church’s wealth. While the members of the order of friars that he founded (the
 Franciscans) weretobeheldtostrictvowsofpoverty,theexactinterpretationofthiswasdisputed:
 some (the “spirituals”) held that his injunction was to be followed literally, while others (the
 “conventuals,” who are not be confused with the similarly named Dominicans gave it a looser
 interpretation. In 1318, John XXII (1316–34) intervened decisively on behalf of the conventuals,
 ordering the spirituals to submit. When some refused, the inquisition was unleashed on them
 and four were burned alive. In 1322, the general chapter of the Franciscan Order rejected the
 pope’s views on their poverty, and he replied with a long, quibbling, legalistic discussion of
 ownership in “Ad conditorem,” proving (to his own mind at any rate) that usufruct (a concept in
 Romancivil law by which the enjoyment of something but not its ownership is granted) cannot
 apply to transient goods (those “consumed by usage”) because by the definition of usufruct
 the use of the good in question falls to the benefit of the person granted the usufruct without
 detriment to the property itself, which cannot be the case with something that is used up when
 it is used. Most Franciscans submitted to the pope’s determination, but some denounced it,
 including the Franciscan scholastic William of Ockam, who rebutted the pope point by point.
 This provoked further pronouncements from John in the form of the immediately following
 Chs. 4–5 in his Extravagantes. The latter in particular (“Quia quorundam”) not only explicitly
 defends “Ad conditorem” and in the process brands as heresy the notion of Jesus’ and the apostles’
 poverty but defends the absolute right of the pope to make such a determination on the basis of
 the “power of the keys” (see Pt. ii n. 487). This unseemly affair resulted in John becoming the
 only pope to be accused (by his opponents) of heresy in an unrelated affair (he thought that the
 saints would not see God until after the Day of Judgment).
 65 Oddlyenough,whilein“Quiaquorundam”Johncomplainsthatthosewhoreject“Adconditorem”
 assert that in the latter he had tried to silence critics by threatening to condemn them as heretics,
 and he attempts to rebut this claim by quoting the text to the effect that those who presumed to
 defendtherejectedviewswouldbeconsideredascontumaciousrebels,thetextof“Adconditorem”
 in the canon does not in fact seem to contain the clause cited here.
191D
 496
 The Hammer of Witches 191D–192A
 an infidel,66 like a Jewor a pagan, who are outside the Church. Hence,
 Augustine says, “When the Devil saw the human race freed from the
 worship of idols and demons, he impelled heretics to oppose the Chris
tian religion under the designation ‘Christian”’ (City of God [18.51]).
 Thus, for someone to be a heretic, the error must be in one who has
 undertaken the Christian Faith in baptism.
 192A
 The fourth requirement is that, in one who has undertaken the Faith
 in this way, the error should be such that he avows some truth about
 Christ that pertains to His divinity or humanity. If he professed no such
 truth at all, he would more properly be considered an apostate than a
 heretic (like Julian the Apostate),67 and the one situation is distinguished
 from the other, although sometimes the one is taken as the other. In this
 circumstance are found certain people who, in instances when they are
 being afflicted with poverty and other vexations, hand over their body
 and soul to the Devil and renounce the Faith on the understanding
 that the Devil will assist them in their necessities and in the acquisition
 of goods and honors. We inquisitors know certain people who later
 repented, who clearly committed such crimes without an error in the
 Faith in their understanding since they did so for temporal gain, and
 for this reason they are not considered heretics properly speaking or
 apostates in the heart (like Julian), though their status is more that of
 apostates.
 If apostates in the heart are unwilling to return to the Church, they
 will be handed over to the secular court as impenitent heretics. If, on the
 otherhand,theyarewilling,theyarereceivedaspenitenthereticsaccord
ing to Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Praesenti” (Book Five, “Heretics”).
 Raymund is in agreement in Title “Apostates,” Chapter “Revertentes”
 (Summa 1.7.4), where he says that, since those who return from the sort
 of breach of the Faith that is apostasy are heretics, they are to be received
 like those returning from heresy. (Here one term is taken as the other, as
 mentioned earlier.) He adds, “On the other hand, although those who
 renounce the Faith through fear of death” (here understand “who for
 the sake of temporal gain renounce the Faith to the Devil and do not
 believe in errors”)68 “are not heretics by law” (note that they are not
 properly speaking heretics) “after they cease to have the error in their
 mind, nonetheless, in the judgment of the Church, which must judge
 inner matters by outer ones, they should be considered heretics” (note
 66 Literally, “someone without faith.”
 67 See Pt. 1 n. 498.
 68 It is notatall clear whyoneshouldmakethisequationsincethetwosituationsarequitedifferent.
Part III 192B–C
 497
 here the fiction of the law) “and if they do return to the Church, they 192B
 should be received as penitent heretics. For the fear of death is not the
 kind of fear that causes a steadfast Christian to renounce the Christian
 Faithwhenitfallstohislot.”(Youshouldalsounderstandthesameabout
 temporal gains.) Hence, he concludes, “It is more saintly to die than to
 make a renunciation or eat offerings to idols,” as Augustine says (cited
 in 32,Q.4 [Decretum 2.32.4.8]). The judgment concerning sorceresses
 whorenounce the Faith is similar, so that in an instance where they wish
 to return, they would be received as repentant without being left to the
 secular court. They are by all means received into the embrace of the
 Churchinthe situation where they ask to be, and they are abandoned, if
 not handedover,tothesecular court (because of the temporal losses they
 have inflicted),69 as will be explained70 in the section on the methods of
 sentencing.
 The ordinary mentioned before carries out everything, so that the
 inquisitor can entrust his role to the bishop, that is, in this circumstance
 concerning apostasy. The situation is different in other circumstances
 concerning fortune-tellers.
 Thefifthrequirementforsomeonetobeproperlyspeakingahereticis
 that he must choose this error with a firm and obstinate will and follow
 these opinions steadfastly. Hence, according to Jerome [Commentary 192C
 on Titus 3.10], heresy is named after choosing,71 and for this reason,
 according to Augustine, it is not the person who begets or follows false
 opinionswhoshouldbeconsideredaheretic,butthepersonwhodefends
 them steadfastly. Hence, if it is not through steadfast evil but through
 ignorance that someone holds someopinioncontrary to the Faith, being
 ready to accept correction if the false pronouncement that he holds
 is shown to him to be in violation of the Faith or Holy Scripture or
 the Church’s determination (24,Q. 3, “Dixit Apostolus”). This is why
 Augustine himself used to say, “It will be possible for me to err but I will
 not be a heretic,” being, that is, ready to be corrected when the error is
 69 The distinction is that the unrepentant heretic is to be handed over for punishment for that
 crime (since the church may not itself execute), while the repentant sorceress is not handed
 over for punishment directly but is left for the secular court to try as it sees fit on the secular
 charges resulting from the sorcery (see 224C–D, where the same distinction is made). In 239A
 the term “hand over” (tradere) is used of turning over a heretical cleric for secular punishment,
 while “leave” (relinquere) is used of a similar layman, but elsewhere the two terms are apparently
 nothing more than synonyms (e.g., 240D, 241C; cf. 244A, where first tradere, the more common
 term is used, but relinquere follows in exactly the same context).
 70 Presumably, Q. 27 (236B–238A).
 71 This is etymologically true, though the word in Greek can refer to a philosophical “sect” that
 one chooses to follow and it is this meaning that gives rise to the Christian term.
498
 The Hammer of Witches 192C–193A
 shown to him. It is also generally agreed that every day there are among
 the Doctors various opinions about divine matters that are sometimes
 contradictory, so that it is necessary for one to be false, but none of them
 is considered false until it is determined to be such by the Church (as
 argued in 24,Q.3,“Qui in ecclesia”).
 192D
 193A
 Onthebasis of all this it is concluded that it is not sufficiently proven
 that sorcerers or others who invoke demons in any way are subject to the
 passing of judgment by inquisitors either through the statements of the
 canonists on the word “saperent” [“they smack”] in Chapter “Accusatus”
 cited above, sincethesepeoplearejudgedbythemtobehereticsthrough
 a fiction of the law, or through the statements of the theologians, since
 for their part they define apostates with the phrase “by word or work”
 but not with the phrase “in mind or heart,” which is the error to which
 the word “saperent” refers.
 Althoughtheyarejudgedtobeheretics,itdoesnotfollowthatabishop
 cannot proceed without an inquisitor to pass the definitive sentence
 against them or to imprison them as punishment or to expose them to
 torture. Yet, in a situation where this decision does not seem72 sufficient
 to relieve us inquisitors of the task of conducting an inquisition into
 sorceresses, we nonetheless do not wish to demand this by way of legal
 right, though we are able to entrust our role concerning them, that is, in
 the passing of sentence, to the diocesans. This is stated in the beginning
 of Chapter “Multorum querela”(Clementines), where it says [§1]: “The
 complaint of many ...,” and below: “In order that the business of an
 inquisition of this kind may be conducted all the more successfully to
 the extent that the investigation of this blemish will then be completed
 more cleverly, carefully and cautiously, We order that it be carried
 out by both the diocesan bishops and the inquisitors appointed by the
 Apostolic See, setting aside all carnal love, hatred or fear or desire for
 any temporal advantage, so that any of the aforementioned parties may,
 without the other, summon and arrest (seize) people and place them in
 secure detention, putting them in iron fetters and chains if he thinks
 this necessary (We lay the burden for these acts upon his conscience).
 He may also conduct the inquisition against those about whom he will
 consider it to be expedient in such a case to do so, in accordance with
 Godandjustice.Iftheyhaveaccesstooneanother,thenwithinthespace
 of eight days after one party has made a request of the other, neither the
 bishop without the inquisitor nor the inquisitor without the bishop (or
 72 Presumably, in the opinion of putative bishops, who demand the participation of inquisitors.
Part III 193A–C
 499
 his official or the representative of the cathedral chapter if the episcopal
 see is empty) will have the power to place them in harsh imprisonment,
 which seems to pertain more to punishment than to detention, or to
 expose them to torture or to institute proceedings against them up to
 the point of sentence. If something is presumptuously done otherwise,
 let it be rendered void and invalid under the law.” After this follows the
 section relevant to our topic of discussion. “But if the bishop or his (or 193B
 when the see is empty, the chapter’s) representative with the inquisitor
 or the inquisitor with one of the others is unable or unwilling to come
 to a meeting in person for the sake of the foregoing, the bishop or his
 (or when the see is empty, the chapter’s) representative may entrust his
 role to the inquisitor and the inquisitor may entrust his to the bishop or
 his representative (or, when the see is empty, to the person delegated for
 this purpose by the chapter) or signify his advice and consent by letter.”
 This makes it clear that while in five situations the one may institute
 proceedings without the other, in three he may not do so by any means.
 Nonetheless, because the one can entrust his role to the other, especially
 in connection with passing sentence, we too decided to do so by the
 present document, with the other inquisitors remaining within their
 own borders.
 In response to the arguments.73
 [RA 1–6] As for the six arguments militating on behalf of the inquisi
tors, the decision that sorceresses and fortune-tellers seem not to be sub
ject to the passing of judgment by inquisitors is clear from the foregoing.
 [RA 7–10] As for the other arguments (those on behalf of the dioce
sans in the situation where they too wish to relieve themselves of the 193C
 task of conducting the inquisition into sorceresses and to leave them to
 the civil judgment), it is clear that they cannot do this as easily as the
 inquisitors, because according to Chapters “Ad abolendam,” “Vergentis”
 and “Excommunicamus” (both) (Extra, “Heretics”), it is the ecclesiastical
 judge’s role to conduct the trial and to pass judgment and that of the
 secular judge to carry out sentence and punish when the sentence con
sists of the penalty of blood (such is not the case with reference to the
 various penalties involving penance). It also seems that in the case of the
 HeresyofSorceresses (notinthecaseofotherheresies), thediocesanscan
 delegate their role in trying and passing judgment to a civil court, both
 because thecrimeofsorceresses, as was discussed in the arguments,is not
 purely ecclesiastical but is rather a civil one on account of the temporal
 73 I.e., the initial arguments laid out in 184B–185D.
500
 The Hammer of Witches 193C–D
 193D
 losses that are inflicted, and because it is knownthatspecificlawsrelating
 to the punishment of sorcerers have been issued74 with respect to every
 method of punishment. Finally, it seems that this method would most
 effectively serve the purpose of exterminating sorceresses and of provid
ing the greatest relief for the diocesans before the Terrifying Judge, since
 the testimony of Scripture attests that the harshest judgment hangs over
 governmental authorities.75
 Wewill proceed76 according to the following distinction. The secular
 judge can conduct the trial and pass judgment up to the point of the
 definitive sentence to penance, which he will receive from the ordinaries,
 but the case will be otherwise with a sentence of blood, which he can
 pass by himself.77
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Introduction:
 Antoninus, Summa 3.5.12
 Eymeric, Dir. 2.43; 3.97]
 To ensure, therefore, that judges in both ecclesiastical and
 civil courts will always have at hand the methods of conducting trials,
 passing judgment and sentencing, it will be necessary to go on to treat
 threebasictopics.Thefirst78 iswhatthemethodofinitiatingproceedings
 involving the Faith is if the matter relates to sorceresses; the second79 is
 what the method of continuing such proceedings is; and the third80 is
 whatthemethodofbringingtheproceedingstoaconclusionandpassing
 sentence is.
 Concerning the first, there are five difficulties. The first81 is which
 among the three methods that are discussed in the law is more appro
priate; the second82 is the number of witnesses; the third83 is whether
 74 I.e., by secular authorities.
 75 For the idea that the authorities will be called to account by God, see 2B.
 76 I.e., in the rest of the work.
 77 The point is that a secular judge will exact the penalty of penance imposed by the ecclesiastical
 judge, but whenitcomestothedeathpenalty,hewillhavetoimposeithimself.Theecclesiastical
 judge fully expects that the death penalty will be imposed, but since it is inappropriate to the
 holiness of a servant of God to do this himself, he will hypocritically and insincerely request that
 the secular judge impose a sentence that falls short of the shedding of blood (240A, 241C, 242C,
 244D, 248A).
 78 194C–199B.
 79 199B–217D.
 80 217D–258B.
 81 Q. 1 (194C–198D).
 82 Q. 2 (196D–197C).
 83 Q. 3 (197C–198A).
Part III 193D–194B
 501
 they can be forced to give an oath; the fourth84 is the status of the
 witnesses; and the fifth85 is whether mortal enemies are allowed to give
 testimony.
 The second part contains eleven questions. The first86 is how the 194A
 witnesses are to be examined and the fact that five persons should always
 bepresent, as well as howthesorceressesaretobeinterrogated,ingeneral
 andinparticular(thiswillbethesixthquestionintheoverallorderwithin
 the book, the number being changed, so that the reader will more easily
 f
 ind the topic he wishes). The second87 explains various doubtful points
 concerning negative answers, as well as when she should be imprisoned
 and when she should be considered as caught manifestly in the Heresy
 of Sorceresses. The third88 is the manner of arresting sorceresses. The
 fourth89 is the two things that the judge must do after the arrest, as well
 as whether the names of those giving testimony are to be made known
 to her and whether lines of defense are to be allowed. The fifth90 is how
 lines of defense should be granted to her along with assignment of an
 advocate. The sixth91 is what the advocate will do in situations where
 the names of the witnesses are not made known, and the situation when
 she claims mortal enmity before the judge. The seventh92 is how the
 judge has to investigate mortal enmity. The eighth93 is the things that
 the judge has to consider before he exposes the accused to torture. The
 ninth94 is the method of passing sentence to questioning under torture. 194B
 The tenth95 is the continuation of the torture and how the women are
 to be tortured, and the stratagems and signs that are useful against the
 sorcery of silence. The eleventh96 is the final interrogations and the
 stratagems to be followed by the judge.
 84 Q. 4 (198A–C).
 85 Q. 5 (198C–199B).
 86 Q. 6 (199B–201D).
 87 Q. 7 (202A–D).
 88 Q. 8 (203A–204A).
 89 Q. 9 (204A–205B).
 90 Q. 10 (205B–206B).
 91 Q. 11 (206B–208A).
 92 Q. 12 (208A–209D).
 93 Q. 14 (210A–211B). At this point the continuous numbering of the questions is thrown into
 confusion, because a question has been omitted here. As the main table of contents indicates,
 there was to have been a question about what the judge should do when the denounced person
 demands that he recuse himself (5B). An earlier outline of the project must have listed this
 question, since the numbering of the subsequent questions is thrown into confusion once the
 original eighth question was omitted (see n. 215). The present list was obviously drawn up after
 it was decided to leave out the chapter on challenges to the judge, since this list takes account
 only of the questions that do appear in the text and numbers them on that basis.
 94 First Q. 15 (211B–213A).
 95 Second Q. 15 (213A–216A).
 96 Q. 16 (216A–217D).
502
 The Hammer of Witches 194B–C
 The third part first contains three questions that the judge ought
 to consider and from which every definitive sentence ought to proceed.
 Thefirst97 is whether sentence can be passed with reference to the exam
ination by white-hot sword. The second98 is the method by which the
 sentence is to be passed. The third99 is which suspicions can serve as
 the basis on which judgment can be passed, and how he ought to pass
 sentence with reference to every single suspicion.
 Finally, with reference to the last100 part there is a treatment of the
 twenty methods ofpassing sentence.101 Thirteen of these are common to
 everyheresy,andtherestconcerntheHeresyofSorceressesspecifically.102
 Each will be explained in its place, and hence they are not set out here
 for the sake of brevity.
 question one: the method of initiating
 the proceedings
 194C
 THEfirst question iswhat is the appropriate method for initi
ating proceedings involving the Faith against sorceresses.
 Response. The three methods discussed in the Liber Extra (“Accusa
tions”) consist of denunciation and inquisition. The first is when some
one accuses someone else before a judge with a charge of heresy or
 abetting it, offers to prove this, and writes himself down for the penalty
 of retribution if he does not prove it. The second method is when
 someone denounces someone else without offering to prove it or being
 willing to participate, and instead states that he is making a denunci
ation through his zeal for the Faith or on account of the sentence of
 97 Q. 17 (218A–219C).
 98 Q. 18 (219D–220D).
 99 Q. 19 (221A–224D).
 100 224D–258B.
 101 This is a rather misleading characterization of the contents. According to the main table of
 contents (5C–6A), the figure of twenty methods of sentencing is reached by adding the three
 introductory questions (17–19) to the seventeen methods that are described there. In fact,
 there are eighteen methods of sentencing (see 224D–225A), but the last (appeals) is left out of
 the count in the main table of contents as a separate “conclusion.” These eighteen methods are
 actually treated in only sixteen questions (20–35), since the next to the last question (34) deals
 with three methods (15–17) (see 251B, 252C–D, 254B–C). That question also treats the topic
 of aiders and abettors, but there is no notice of that topic either here or in the main table of
 contents.
 102 The two groups are constituted respectively by Methods 1–13 (cf. “last” in 245B, and 248C) in
 Qs. 20–32 (224D–245A) and Methods 14–15 (which includes additional methods that are not
 overtly mentioned there: see 252C–254A) in Qs. 33–34 (248B–254C). Q. 35 (on appeals) is a
 general topic and should belong to the first group, but is apparently left out of account here (it
 is not counted as one of the twenty methods in 6A).
Part III 194C–195A
 503
 excommunication103 passed by the ordinary or his official or on account
 of the temporal penalty that the secular judge imposes on those not
 making denunciations. The third is the method by inquisition, that is,
 whenthereisnoaccuserordenouncer,butthegeneralrumorinacertain
 city or place is worked up about there being sorceresses. In that case, the
 judge has to institute proceedings not at the insistence of some party
 but by virtue of his office. It should be noted that the judge should not
 really allow the first method of proceeding, because this method is not 194D
 customary in a case involving the Faith or in a case involving sorceresses,
 who practice their acts of sorcery in secret, because it is quite dangerous
 for the accuser on account of the penalty of retribution that is imposed
 when he fails to make good the proof, and because it is quite subject to
 legal disputation.104
 Let him begin the proceedings with a general summons, affixing it to
 the doorsoftheparishchurchorgovernmentheadquartersinthefollow
ing manner. “We, the representative of the Bishop Such-and-Such (or
 judge of Lord Such-and-Such), yearn with all our desires and desire with
 all our heart that the Christian people entrusted to us should be com
forted in the unity and serenity of the Catholic Faith and in their bowels
 should be removed from every plague of heretical depravity, and it is for
 the glory and honor of remembrance of the name of Jesus Christ, for
 the exaltation of the Holy Orthodox Faith and the suppression of hereti
cal depravity, especially in connection with sorceresses, that the office
 imposed upon us makes us responsible for these matters. Therefore,
 to each and every person within the territory of this town or within the
 town or within two miles of the town, of whatever condition or status”
 (note that if an ecclesiastical judge is conducting the inquisition, he 195A
 should add, “of whatever order or religious vow”) “or dignity they may
 be, to whose notice these commands have reached” (the ecclesiastical
 judge should add, “by the authority that we enjoy in this regard, by
 virtue of holy obedience and under penalty of excommunication”) “we
 order andcommandandinourcommandrequireandadvisethatwithin
 the next twelve days counted from now” (here the secular judge will give
 the order after his own fashion and with the customary penalties) “who
ever knows or has seen or heard that some person is reputed or suspected
 to be a heretic or sorcerer and in particular follows practices that can
 103 I.e., public admonition that anyone who has knowledge or suspicion of heretical activity should
 report this under penalty of excommunication for failing to do so.
 104 In Eymeric this is not a separate reason for rejecting the procedure but explains why the
 procedure is dangerous for the accuser.
504
 The Hammer of Witches 195A–C
 195B
 195C
 result in harm to humans, domestic animals or the fruits of the earth
 and in damage to the common good, they should inform us. Of these
 twelve days, we set the first four as the first deadline, the next four as the
 second and the final four as the third, fixing these dates in accordance
 with the triple warning dictated by the Canon.105 If someone does not
 effectively obeyour106 warningsandadvicebynotprovidinginformation
 about the foregoing within the limit established, let him know that
 he” (The ecclesiastical judge should add “is stricken with the sword of
 excommunication,” while the secular judge should add the temporal
 penalties). “As our admonition according to the Canon dictates and
 their obedience demands, we pass this sentence of excommunication,
 now as then and then as now, against each and every person who is
 contumacious in this way, hereby reserving for ourselves107 alone the
 right to give absolution for these sentences.” (The secular judge should
 conclude after his own fashion.) “Issued...”
 In addition, note with reference to the second methodthatthesecond
 methodofconductingandstarting proceedings involving the Faith is, as
 has been mentioned,108 the method of denunciation, in which case the
 denouncer does not offer to prove the charge himself and is unwilling to
 participate and instead says that he is makingthedenunciationbyreason
 of the sentence of excommunication that has been passed or through his
 zeal for the Faith or for the sake of the common good. For this reason,
 the secular judge ought to specify in his general summons (admonition,
 as set out above) that no one should think that he will become subject
 to penalty even if he fails in his proof, because he is offering himself not
 as an accuser but as a denouncer.
 Because many people will in that case appear to offer denunciations
 to the judge, he ought to note that he should proceed in the following
 manner. First, he should have a notary and two respectable persons,
 whether clerics or laymen. If a notary cannot be obtained, then in place
 of the notary there should be two suitable men. Such is the provision
 105 Decretum 2.24.3.6 states, on the basis of the procedure of Roman law, that in order for someone
 to be declared in contempt of court (“contumacious”) he had to refuse three summonses to
 appear.
 106 Eymeric adds “or rather Apostolic” (see next note).
 107 Eymeric adds “and for our Lord the Pope.” This omission and the one mentioned in the
 preceding note suggest a conscious effort to remove indications that the inquisitor’s powers
 are not absolute but depend upon the pope, to whom appeal is possible. The reason for the
 omission cannot be for the sake of any putative secular judges, since their differing formulas
 are overtly noted as such.
 108 194C.
Part III 195C–196A
 505
 of the Chapter “Ut officio,” §“Verum”(Liber Sextus), where it says, “It is
 necessary in the case of a serious charge to proceed with great caution,
 so that there will be no error in pronouncing against the guilty the
 severity of harsh and due punishment. Therefore it is our wish and
 command that in the examination of the witnesses whom it will be
 suitable to accept in connection with the aforementioned charge and
 the activities connected with it, you should call in two discreet, religious
 persons”(heretheArchdeaconsaysinthegloss:“Tworespectableperson,
 whether clerics or laymen, are understood”).109 “In their presence the
 depositions of these witnesses are to be written down accurately by an
 official person, if you can get one conveniently, or by two suitable men.” 195D
 Note therefore that after these people have been brought in, the judge
 should order the denouncer to give the denunciation in writing or at
 least to say it verbally,110 and then the notary or judge should begin the
 proceedings in the following manner.
 “In the name oftheLord.Amen.Intheyearfrom the Birth of the
 Lord (and so on) on such-and-such day of such-and-such month, in the
 presence of my notary and the witnesses listed below, Such-and-Such
 from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese (as above)
 appeared in person in Such-and-Such place before the honorable judge
 and offered to him a complaint to the following effect” (it should be
 inserted in full). If he does so not by written complaint but verbally,
 it should be set down in this way: “...appeared ...and denounced to
 him that Such-and-Such from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and
Such diocese claimed and stated that he knew the following” or “that he
 committed such-and-such acts of harm against him111 or his property or
 to other persons.” Having done this, the judge will immediately make
 the denouncer swear an oath in the customary way, either by the four
 GospelsofGodorontheCross,withthreefingersraisedandtwopushed
 down,112 by the testimony of the Holy Trinity and at the risk of the 196A
 109 Thisis amisrepresentation of the Archdeacon’s view as reported inEymeric:“‘Religious persons’
 can be understood here to mean respectable persons, whether clerics or laymen, but it is more
 likely that it is speaking of religious people [i.e., monks and friars] who have adopted the habit
 associated with a religious vow.”
 110 I.e., if he is illiterate.
 111 I.e., the denouncer.
 112 This traditional ecclesiastical gesture for benediction (with the last two fingers folded over
 the palm) is already attested in Late Antiquity, but its origin is unclear. Elsewhere, Institoris
 indicates that in his mind the two pressed-down fingers indicate the damnation of body and
506
 The Hammer of Witches 196A–B
 damnation of his soul and body, with reference to his telling the truth
 about the acts he denounces.
 When the oath has been tendered, the judge will ask him how he
 knows that the things that he has denounced are true, and whether he
 saw or heard them. If he says that he saw something, for instance that
 the accused was found there at such-and-such an hour when there was
 stormy weather or that he touched a domestic animal or that he entered
 the barn, the judge will ask him where he saw this and when and how
 often and in what way and in whose presence. If he says he did not see
 this but heard about it, the judge will ask him from whom he heard
 it and where and when and how often and in whose presence. The
 judge will draw up articles about each of these points individually and
 separately.113
 196B
 The notary (scribe) should put this in its entirety into the records
 (protocol) directly after the denunciation, continuing as follows. “This
 denunciation having been made in the way stated above, the inquisitor
 immediatelymadethedenouncerswearbythefourGospelsofGod”and
 so on in the way stated above “about telling the truth about the matters
 he denounced, and the judge questioned him as to how andinwhatway
 he knew the matters that he had denounced or had a suspicion that
 they were true. He answered that he had seen (or heard) ...The judge
 asked where he had seen (or heard), and he said that on such-and-such
 day of such-and-such month of such-and-such year in Such-and-Such
 place. He asked how manytimes he had seen (or heard)” and so on. The
 articles should be drawn up in the manner mentioned above and the
 whole be placed in the protocol. In particular, the denouncer is asked
 which people in addition to him have knowledge in connection with
 this case and which can have any. When all this has been done in this
 way, he will be asked whether he is making his denunciation as a result
 of ill-will, hatred or a grudge, or is leaving something out as a result of
 partiality or love, or is making his denunciation at someone’s request
 or suborning. Finally, he will be ordered by virtue of the oath he gave
 to keep secret whatever he said there or the judge said to him.114 The
 whole will be placed in the protocol and records, and when this has
 soul for perjury while the three raised fingers represent the Trinity. The Constitutio Carolina
 (the criminal code issued for the Holy Roman Empire in 1532 by the Emperor Charles V) notes
 (sec. 107) that “it is the customary practice in the Holy Empire to cut off from perjurers the
 two fingers by which they swore” (seemingly it was thought that it was the depression of the
 two last fingers that created the operative gesture).
 113 “Article” is the technical term for the separate items that constitute an official list.
 114 It is worth noting that the oath concerned telling the truth, not concealing the proceedings.
Part III 196B–D
 507
 been completed, the following should be placed a little bit underneath.
 “These transactions were conducted in Such-and-Such place on the
 such-and-such day of such-and-such month and in such-and-such year
 in the presence of Such-and-Such my notary (or the scribe attached to
 me for the task of record-keeper) and of Such-and-Such, the witnesses
 summoned and requested for this purpose.”
 The third method of beginning the proceedings, which is also 196C
 the commonandusual method. At the same time this would be a secret
 method, in a situation where no accuser or denouncer presents himself
 but the general rumor in some city or place is worked up about a sor
ceress or even about Such-and-Such, and the judge wishes to institute
 proceedings onthebasis of his office withoutageneralsummons(admo
nition; as above), because this constant clamor has reached his ears. In
 this case, he can again begin the proceedings in the presence of persons
 as stated above.
 “In the name oftheLord. Amen. In the year from the Birth of the
 Lord such-and-such in such-and-such month (or months) it came tothe
 ears of the official Such-and-Such (or judge Such-and-Such) through
 the report of general rumor and the evidence of clamorous notification,
 that Such-and-Such from Such-and-Such place said or did such-and
such things pertaining to acts of sorcery in violation of the Faith and
 the common good of the state.” Let the whole be set down in the way
 reported by the worked-up rumor. Then a little bit below: “These trans
actions were conducted on such-and-such day of such-and-such month
 of the year such-and-such in the presence of my notary (or scribe), Such
and-Such, whoassistedmeinthecapacityofrecord-keeper,andofSuch
and-Such, the witnesses summoned and requested for this purpose.”
 Before the start of the second part115 (how proceedings of this kind 196D
 should be continued), a few introductory points about the examination
 of witnesses, and their number and status should be set out.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 1:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3, “Methods 1, 2, 3 of proceeding in a case involving
 thefaith, byaccusation,bydenunciationandbymeansofinquisition”
 (modus procedendi in causa fidei per accusationem, per denuntiationem,
 per viam inquisitionis)]
 115 As laid out in 194A.
508
 The Hammer of Witches 196D–197A
 question two: the number of witnesses
 IT was stated in the section on the second method116 how the
 statements of the witnesses should be written down, and hence it is
 necessary to know their number and status.
 197A
 It is asked whether the judge can, on the basis of the testimony of two
 lawful, individual witnesses, condemn any womanfortheHeresyofSor
ceresses or whether more than two are necessarily required. (Witnesses
 are called “individual” when they are divided in their statements but are
 concordant about the essence or result of the event. Hence, if one said,
 “She affected my cow with sorcery,” while the other mentioned a child,
 they would be concordant about the sorcery. Here, then, the question
 concerns the situation when the witnesses are not individual but alto
gether in agreement.) The response is that although two witnesses seem
 to be sufficient according to the letter of the law, the rule being that
 every statement in the mouth of two or three stands, nonetheless, on
 the basis of legal fairness it seems that two are not enough in connection
 with this charge, for two reasons.
 First, there is the enormity of the charge. In criminal charges the
 proof should be clearer than daylight (Pandect, “Proofs” “Si autem”),117
 and heresy in particular is counted among the greater charges. If it is
 stated that in this charge lesser proofs are sufficient on the grounds that
 someone is revealed in a trivial matter (Chapter of the Code “Heretics,”
 Law 2: “With a trivial demonstration he makes himself a heretic in
 deviating from the judgment and path of the Catholic religion” [Code
 of Justinian 1.5.2.1]),118 the response is that this is true for a presumption
 but not for condemnation.
 The other reason is the abbreviation of the legal procedure in con
nection with this charge. In it, the judicial procedure is abbreviated
 in favor of the Faith, in that the accused does not see the witnesses
 swear their oath and their identity is not revealed to him in a situation
 where they could be seriously endangered, as is explained in Chapter
 “Statuta” (Liber Sextus, “Heretics”), and hence the accused cannot
 guess who they are. Instead, the judge is obligated by virtue of his
 office to conduct a thorough examination of the enmity of the wit
nesses himself, since enemies are excluded, as will be explained below.119
 116 I.e., of beginning the proceedings; see 195D–196B.
 117 The reference should be to Code of Justinian 4.19.25 (“Sciant”).
 118 This is actually a paraphrase of the law, which refers to “those who are discovered, even through
 a trivial demonstration, to deviate from the judgment and path of the Catholic religion.”
 119 Q. 12 (208A–209D).
Part III 197B–C
 509
 If their testimony about the reason for their knowledge is individual, 197B
 he will question them a second time, which he can do (Liber Extra,
 “Witnesses” “Per tuas” and Pandect, “Questionings,” “Repeti” [Digest
 48.18.16]). For the more that every path of defense is taken away from
 theaccused,themoreitisincumbentuponthejudgetoconductacareful
 inquisition.
 Therefore, in a situation where two concordant, lawful witnesses are
 found against someone, I120 would still not wish to condemn him for
 such a crime on that basis. Rather, I would want to impose purgation
 if he was of bad reputation, or have him make an abjuration because
 of the strong suspicion that arises from the statements of two witnesses,
 or to question him under torture, or to postpone sentence. For it does
 not seem safe to condemn a person of good repute on the words of two
 witnesses (it is otherwise if the person is of bad reputation).121
 Regarding this the Archdeacon speaks more fully at the beginning of
 Chapter “Ut officium” §“Verum”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”) on the word
 “testium” [“of witnesses”] and Chapter “In fidei” at the end of the gloss
 on that chapter; so too John Andreae on the same passages. In Chapter
 “Excommunicamus itaque”(Extra, “Heretics” §“Adiicimus”) it says that
 the Bishop should make three or more men of good testimony swear 197C
 an oath about telling the truth if they know in the parish that there are
 such heretics there.
 On the same topic. If it is asked whether the judge can justly
 condemn someone for this heresy with only three individual witnesses,
 at any rate whenthedefendant has a badreputation, the answer is no, he
 can do so neither with three individual witnesses nor when the accused
 has a badreputation (Extra, “Witnesses,” “Cum litteris”), especially since
 in criminal charges the proofs should be clearer than daylight, as was
 explained above, and in this charge no one is to be condemned on the
 basis of presumption (Extra, “Presumptions,” “Litteras”).122 Therefore,
 purgation is imposed on such a person on account of the bad reputation
 and abjuration on account of the strong suspicion that arises from the
 statements of the witnesses. But when three individual but concordant
 120 This “I” comes from Eymeric.
 121 This passage indicates the view that in the case of a person of “bad reputation” the testimony
 of two people is considered sufficient for condemnation.
 122 This interpretation is different from the one given in his Memorandum to the bishop of Brixen.
 There Institoris asserts (466) that someone can be condemned for heresy on the basis of having
 a bad reputation for this and one witness. This is legally false, and he appears to have realized
 this in the interim.
510
 The Hammer of Witches 197C–198A
 witnesses agree on the essence of the deed and the evidence of the deed,
 in this case the burden is placed on the judge’s conscience.123
 In the Directorium is contained the question of how many times the
 witnesses can be examined.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 2:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.71, 72]
 197D
 198A
 question three
 IF it is askedwhether124 the judge can force the witnesses to swear
 an oath about telling him the truth in a case involving the Faith or
 sorceresses, and also whether he can examine them several times, the
 answer is that he can, especially an ecclesiastical judge, as was explained
 above125 regarding Chapter “Ut officium” §“Verum,” and that witnesses
 in ecclesiastical cases are to be forced to give truthful testimony by
 means of an oath (Extra, “Compelling Witnesses,” Chapter “Pervenit”).
 Otherwise, the testimonywill notbevalid. In Extra, “Heretics,” Chapter
 “Excommunicamus itaque” §“Adiicimus” it says that the archbishop or
 bishop should go through the parish in which the heretics are rumored
 to dwell and compel three or more men of good testimony or, if he
 thinks it useful, the whole vicinity to swear the oath. Below it goes on,
 “If any of them with damnable obstinacy spurn the religious obligation
 of the oath and are unwilling to swear, from this very fact they should
 be considered to be heretics.”
 That they can be examined several times is stated by the Archdea
con on the word “testium” [“witnesses”] in the Chapter “Ut officium”
 §“Verum,” where it says, “The inquisitor” (in this case the judge) “ought
 to make sure that if the witnesses have given conflicting testimony and
 have not been asked fully about the reason for their knowledge, he will
 renew the inquisition with126 them.” This can be done legally (Extra,
 “Compelling Witnesses,”127 as was discussed above,128 and Pandect, Title
 “Questioning,” “Repeti”).
 123 I.e., the judge may condemn, but the responsibility for doing so lies within his own conscience.
 124 The heading to this question should be: “Whether they can be forced to give an oath,” as
 indicated by the introductory list (194A).
 125 This topic has not been discussed before, but perhaps the quotation of this chapter in 195Cis
 meant.
 126 I.e., “as the subject of the investigation.”
 127 Presumably, a reference to Chapter “Per tuas” has been accidentally omitted here (cf. 197B).
 128 197B.
[Note on Sources
 Part III 198A–B
 511
 Major identified sources for Q. 3:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.62]
 question four: the status of the witnesses
 QUESTION about the status of the witnesses. Note that
 excommunicates are allowed to litigate and give testimony in any case
 involving the Faith, as are participants and associates in the charges, and
 the infamous,129 and criminal serfs against their masters. Also, a sorcerer
 is allowed to give testimony against a sorcerer in the same way that a
 heretic is allowed to do so against a heretic, though in default of other
 proofs and always against and never for. This is also the case with his
 wife, children and friends (demonstrated by Chapter “Filii,” Liber Sex
tus, “Heretics”).130 The reason for this is that their testimony is more
 effective as proof.
 The first group is explained in Chapter “In fidei” (“Heretics” in the
 same place): “In favor of the Faith We grant that, in the business of the
 inquisition of heretical depravity, excommunicates and participants or 198B
 associates in the charges should be admitted in default of other proofs
 against heretics and their believers, harborers, abettors and defenders, if,
 on the basis of plausible conjectures and the number of witnesses or the
 quality of both the persons deposing and those against whom the case is
 lodged and the depositions given or on the basis of other circumstances,
 those giving this testimony are presumed not to be speaking falsehoods.”
 When it is presumed that perjurers are deposing through zeal for the
 Faith is explained in the cited Chapter “Accusatus” §“Licet,” where it
 says, “Although perjurers are debarred, nonetheless, if those who, in the
 presence . . . ” and below, “...if on the basis of manifest indications it
 appears that it is not through fickleness of spirit or the instigation of
 hatred or corruption by money but through zeal for the Orthodox Faith
 that these people wish to correct their statement and to reveal now what
 they previously concealed, then in favor of the faith, unless there is some
 obstacle, their attestations should be upheld, both against themselves
 and the others.”
 As for the admission of the infamous and of criminals and of serfs
 against their masters, the Archdeacon says the following on the word
 129 A technical term in the law for someone who is debarred from giving testimony because of a
 disreputable profession or a prior conviction.
 130 This expansion of the list of those whose testimony can be used against suspects to include
 family members and friends has been added to Eymeric.
198C
 512
 The Hammer of Witches 198C–D
 “exceptum” in the cited Chapter “Accusatus,” §“Licet.” “So great is
 the stain of the charge of heresy, that to prosecute it even serfs are
 admitted against their masters, and so is any criminal and even the
 infamous against anyone, as it says in 2,Q.7 [Decretum 2.2.7.22] §‘Huic
 opponitur.’”
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 4:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.64, 65, 66]
 question five: whether mortal enemies are
 allowed to give testimony
 IF it is askedwhetherthe judge can allow mortal enemies of some
one denounced in such a case to give testimony or to litigate against
 him, we respond that he cannot. Hence, the Archdeacon (cited above)
 says, “You should not, however, understand that in this charge a mor
tal enemy is allowed to litigate (3,Q. 5, Ch. 2 [Decretum 2.3.5.2] and
 “Simony,” Chapter “Licet Heli” at the end). Hostiensis also has a note
 about this in his Summa [5.1.2] (“Accusations” §“Quis posset”).
 198D
 Whoare called mortal enemies? Note that someone is debarred only
 by reason of enmity, and that not just any enemy but only a mortal one
 is debarred. Hence, it is understood that a death has in fact beeninflicted
 among them131 or one was intended or those things that are conducive
 to deathor a means for it or serious or fatal wounds ensued and similar
 things that are manifestly indicative of the perversity and ill-will of the
 perpetrator against the victim. For this reason, it is presumed that just
 as he intended bodily death against him by that method, that is, by
 inflicting a wound, he would also intend to do so through this method,
 that is, by foisting upon him the crime of heresy, and that just as he
 wished to take away his life, he would wish to take away his reputation.
 Hence, such mortal enemies are excluded by law from giving testimony.
 As for other enmities, especially serious ones, in consideration of
 the fact that women are in fact easily moved to enmities, although
 these enmities do not completely debar, nonetheless, they weaken their
 statements to some extent, so that full faith should not be placed in their
 attestations. Still, with other supporting evidence and the statements of
 other witnesses, they can provide full proof, especially when the judge
 questions the person denounced as to whether he thinks that he has
 131 Presumably, this refers to a murder that resulted in a blood feud.
Part III 198D–199B
 513
 an enemy who would dare out of enmity to foist upon him such an
 accusation to cause his death.132 If he says yes, the judge will ask who
 that person is, and then he should note whether he has indicated that
 personabout whomthereis asuspicion that he has made his deposition 199A
 out of enmity. For in the situation where the judge is also informed
 of the reason for the enmity by respectable third parties and no other
 supporting evidence or statements of other witnesses come to his notice,
 he will be able to debar such a witness safely. If, on the other hand,
 the denounced person will say, “I do not expect that I have some such
 enemy,althoughIhavesometimeshadquarrelswithwomen,”orwillsay,
 “I have an enemy” and not mention the witness properly but someone
 else who perhaps has not given a deposition, then, even if others have
 said that this witness gave the deposition as a result of enmity, the judge
 ought not to debar his statements but should keep them for full proof
 along with other supporting evidence.
 Very many insufficiently foresightful and circumspect men are found
 who seek to refute and invalidate women’s depositions of this kind, say
ing that they should not be upheld because women, being quarrelsome,
 commonlymakedepositionsoutofenmity.Because these menareigno
rant of the cunning tricks and stratagems of judges, they speak like the
 blind about colors. (These cunning tricks will be explained in Questions
 Eleven and Twelve.)
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 5:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.67 and “On lines of defense for defendants” (de
 defensionibus reorum)]
 part two:133 how the proceedings | aretobe
 continued (question six), and how the witnesses
 are to be examined in the presence of four other
 persons, and the two ways in which the
 denounced woman is to be questioned
 NOW Question Six is how proceedings of this kind against
 sorceresses in a case involving the Faith are to be continued. The first
 consideration is that in a case involving the Faith the proceeding is sum
mary, straightforward and informal, without the screeching and pos
turing of advocates in courtrooms, as is explained in Chapter “Statuta”
 132 For this procedure, see also 208C–D.
 133 As laid out in 193D–194A.
 199B
514
 The Hammer of Witches 199B–D
 199C
 199D
 (Liber Sextus). How these words are to be understood is explained in
 Extra, “Meaning of Words” and in Chapter “Saepe contingit” inthe
 Clementines, where it says, “It often happens that We delegate cases,
 and in connection with some of them We order the proceeding to be
 straightforward and informal, without the screeching and posturing of a
 courtroom. Many people dispute the meaning of these words, and there
 is doubt as to howtheproceedingsshouldbecarried out. Desiring, then,
 to settle such doubt as far as possible, We ordain by this eternally valid
 decree that a judge to whom Wehavedelegated a case in this way should
 be obligated not to demand a petition or to require a formal joinder of
 the suit,134 and should be entitled to carry out lawful proceedings during
 a holiday indulged to men because of their needs, should cut out delay
 and curtail as far as possible the subject matter of the suit, debarring
 the exceptions,135 appeals and delays that thwart justice, and restraining
 the disputes and squabbles of the parties’ advocates and legal representa
tives136 and the pointlessly large number of witnesses. The judge should
 not, however, throttle the case by not admitting the necessary proofs. It
 is also Our understanding that this sort of delegation does not exclude
 the act of summoningandthepresentation of an oath aboutnotmaking
 a false accusation and about telling the truth so that the truth will not be
 concealed.”
 As was seen above,137 the proceedings are to be started in three ways,
 because of the insistence of an accuser, the zeal of a denouncer or the
 outcry of worked-up rumor, and the judge ought not to undertake
 proceedings on this topic at the insistence of an accuser, since deeds
 of sorceresses are hidden by the working of demons, and the accuser
 cannot,asisthecasewithothercharges,instituteproceedingsanddefend
 himself through the evidence of deed.138 Instead, the judge ought to
 look after the interests of the accuser by removing the word “accusation”
 and putting down “denunciation,” because of the serious danger to the
 accuser. Therefore, in the second method, which is the usual one, and
 134 This phrase is used here to translate the Latin litis contestatio, a term of Roman civil law that
 signified the procedure by which the litigants of a case thrashed out before a magistrate the
 terms under which the decision would be reached.
 135 Another Roman legal term, an “exception” was a clause in a law that exempted certain people
 from its application.
 136 ThisphraserepresentstheLatinprocurator,whichisatermfromRomanlawsignifyingsomeone
 who is authorized by a person to make legally valid decisions on his behalf in his absence.
 137 194C–D.
 138 Cf. the anecdote in 138D–139B, in which a man happens to observe satanic rites, but must take
 extreme measures to compel the culprit to reveal herself in front of witnesses, because he had
 made his initial discovery alone.
Part III 199D–200A
 515
 similarly with the third, in both of which the proceedings are instituted
 officially and not at the insistence of a party, it should be noted that
 it was said in the foregoing that the judge ought to ask the denouncer
 specifically about which people are knowledgeable about this case along
 with him or can be, and therefore the judge will have those witnesses
 whomthedenouncerhasmentionedandwhoseemtobeknowledgeable
 about the deed summoned.
 The scribe will continue the protocol by writing as follows. “After
 this, the judge noted that the aforementioned heretical acts denounced
 to him were by their nature such and so great that they cannot and
 should not be tolerated with conniving eyes, since they result in insult
 to the majesty of God and damage both to the Catholic Faith and to the
 commongood,andheresorted to informing himself and examining the
 witnesses in the following manner.”
 List of questions for the witnesses
 “Witness Such-and-Such,fromSuch-and-Suchplace,wassum- 200A
 moned and put under oath. Questioned as to whether he knew Such
and-Such (the name of the denounced being stated), he said yes.
 “Item.139 Questioned aboutthereasonforthis knowledge,hesaidthat
 he saw and spoke to him several times (or in such-and-such way or oth
erwise), because they were associates.” (The reasons for the knowledge
 will be stated.)
 “Item. Questioned about the time of the knowledge, he said that it
 has been ten years (or however many).
 “Item. Questioned about the denounced person’s reputation, espe
cially with reference to matters of the Faith, he said that in terms of
 character he is a man of good (or bad) reputation, but as for matters of
 the Faith he said that there is a story in Such-and-Such place that he
 follows certain practices contrary to the Faith as a sorcerer.
 “Item. Questioned about what the story is, he said....
 “Item. Questioned as to whether he saw or heard Such-and-Such
 doing such-and-such things, he said...
 “Item. Questioned as to where he heard the aforementioned things
 said, he said, in Such-and-such place.
 139 Though the word item literally means “likewise,” the appearance of the Latin word at the start
 of each article in interrogatories drawn up in the vernacular shows that the word was used
 merely as a formulaic way of dividing the individual “items” (hence the meaning of the English
 derivative).
516
 The Hammer of Witches 200A–C
 “Item. Questioned as to in whose presence, he said, in the presence
 of these.
 200B
 200C
 “Item. Questioned as to whether any of those related to him by blood
 had in the past been burned to ashes because of acts of sorcery or been
 considered suspect, he said...140
 “Item.Questionedastowhetherhemaintainedfamiliarrelationswith
 suspected sorcerers, he said . . .
 “Item. Questioned about the manner in which and the reason why
 these statements were made, hesaid for this reason and in such-and-such
 way.
 “Item. Questioned as to whether he thought that Such-and-Such said
 or did these things in jest or in mimicry or unwittingly or, on the other
 hand, assertively and wittingly, he said that he believes that he did the
 aforementioned things jokingly and jestingly or in mimicry and not in
 a spirit of holding such beliefs or assertively.
 “Item. Questioned about the reason for this belief, he said that he
 believes this because the man who was making the statements did so
 laughing.” A very careful investigation about these statements should be
 made, because sometimes people say the words of others in mimicry or
 in jesting or in the course of a discussion, so that they can draw others
 outorurgethemon,thoughsometimestheydoinfactdosoasassertions
 or affirmations.
 “Item. Questioned as to whether he is making a deposition about
 these matters through hatred or a grudge or is making any omission
 through love or bias, he said that...”
 And so on.
 It continues: “He was ordered to keep this secret.
 “The transactions were conducted in Such-and-Such place on such
and-such day in the presence of the witnesses Such-and-Such, called and
 requested, and of my notary (scribe).”
 Here it should always be noted that in such an examination at least
 f
 ive persons should be present: the inquisitorial judge, the respondent
 (the witness or the denouncer or the denounced person, who appears
 later), the third is the notary (or scribe when a notary is unavailable,
 in which case the scribe should avail himself of the services of another
 respectable man and the two of them will fill in for the notary, as was
 mentioned above,141 by the Apostolic authority of which they make
 140 This question and the next are added to the source material from Eymeric.
 141 195C.
Part III 200C–201A
 517
 use in that act, explained above on the topic of Chapter “Ut Officium”
 in Liber Sexus, “Heretics”), and two respectable men as witnesses to
 those giving depositions. It should likewise be noted that a summoned
 witness should also be under oath, that is, that he should give an oath
 in the manner mentioned above142 about telling the truth. Otherwise,
 the notation “summoned and put under oath” would be false.
 The other witnesses should be examined in exactly the same way.
 After their examination, if the judge sees that the deed has been fully
 proven, or if it is not fully proven, that there are very great indications
 and strong suspicions (note that what we are speaking of is not the light
 suspicion that arises from light conjectures, but the fact that she143 has 200D
 a very bad reputation concerning the acts of sorcery committed against
 children, domestic animals and so on), then if the judge has fears about
 the flight of the denounced man or woman, he should have the person
 arrested. Whether or not he is arrested, the judge should first have his
 house searched unexpectedly and all the cabinets opened and the boxes
 in the corners and all the implements that are found removed.144 After
 this has been arranged, the judge should compile all the matters about
 whichthepersonhasbeenaccusedandallthoseaboutwhichhehasbeen
 convicted by witnesses, and then draw up a list of questions about these
 matters. Then he should conduct the inquisition, having the notary
 (and so on, as above) with him, after the denounced person has given
 a bodily oath on the four Gospels of God about telling the truth both
 about himself and about others (in the following manner). The details
 should be written down.
 List of general questions concerning a sorceress or sorcerer (Step One)
 “The denounced Such-and-Such from Such-and-Such place
 bodily touched the four Gospels of God and swore to tell the truth both
 about himself and about others, and then, questioned as to where he
 is from or where he originated from, he answered from Such-and-Such
 place of the diocese Such-and-Such.
 “Item. Questioned as to who are his parents and whether they are
 living or dead, he answered, living in Such-and-Such place (or died in
 Such-and-Such place).
 142 195D–196A.
 143 Here in an addition to Eymeric’s original text, the adjectival agreement makes it clear that a
 woman is meant, but in this passage Eymeric’s generalizing masculine is retained.
 144 For examining the dwelling, see 166A, 175A.
 201A
518
 The Hammer of Witches 201A–B
 “Item. Questioned as to whether they died by a natural death or were
 burned to ashes, she145 said that they died by such-and-such a death.”146
 Noteherethatthisisaskedbecause,aswasexplainedinPartTwo147 ofthe
 work, sorceresses generally offer their own babies to demons or instruct
 them, and commonly the whole progeny is tainted. In a situation where
 those giving depositions affirmed this and she denied it, she would now
 be suspect.
 “Item. Questioned as to the place in which he was raised and, as is
 the case with many, lived, he said in Such-and-Such place or Such-and
Such.” If the judge sees that he left his own area, not perhaps because
 his mother or anyone from his family was suspect, yet lived in a foreign
 area, especially in areas where sorceresses generally flourish, he will be
 asked as follows.
 “Item. Questioned as to why he left the area of his birth and moved
 to stay in Such-and-Such place or places, he said for such-and-such
 reason.148
 201B
 “Item. Questioned as to whether in these areas or elsewhere she heard
 talk on the subject of sorceresses,” for example that storms were stirred
 up or domestic animals affected with sorcery or cows deprived of the
 liquidofmilkandsoonwithreferencetothecontentofthedenunciation
 against her. If she says yes, she should be questioned as follows.
 “Item. Questioned as to what she heard said,” and the details that she
 says should be written down.
 If she denies it and says she heard nothing, then as follows.
 “Item. Questioned as towhethershebelieves that sorceresses exist and
 that such things as are reported can happen”– like stirring up storms,
 contaminating domestic animals and humans– “she said...”
 145 Eymeric conceived of the accused as a male (the “default” gender for generalizing statements
 in Latin) since he was writing about heretics in general. The gender of the introductory word
 “questioned” (interrogatus) makes this clear, but when questions that do not appear in Eymeric
 are addedtothelist,anabbreviatedformofthewordthatleavesofftheending(anditsindication
 of gender) is usually used (this sort of word would not normally be abbreviated in the published
 text of the Malleus). Thus, since Latin verbs do not indicate gender unless the subject is overtly
 stated or modified by some adjectival form, the Latin does not make it clear what the gender
 of the accused is conceived to be in these instances, but a few forms and comments later on
 in the questions indicate that a female is intended in the added questions and I have decided
 to assume that all questions beginning with the abbreviated form refer to women. This is as
 confusing in the Latin as it is in the English here, since such questions are intermingled with
 questions about males deriving from Eymeric.
 146 This question has been added to the material from Eymeric.
 147 Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch. 13 (137B–141D).
 148 The point of this question in Eymeric is to determine if the suspect has intentionally moved
 to an area where heresy is flourishing. Here the questions makes no sense, since the sorceresses
 supposedlywereabletoattendthedistantassembliesconvenedbySatan,eitherthroughinvisible
 transport of their bodies or through a sort of mental telepathy (104A, 105A–B).
Part III 201B–C
 519
 Note that for the most part sorceresses initially make a denial, and
 hence a greater suspicion arises than if they responded, “Whether they
 exist or not I leave to my betters.”149 Hence, if they say no, then they
 should be questioned as follows.
 “Item. Questioned,‘Whataboutwhentheyareburned?Aretheythen
 condemned though they are innocent?’ she said...”150
 List of specific questions concerning these same people
 The judge should take care not to put off the following ques
tions, but should set them out without delay.
 “Item. Questioned as to why the common people feared her, she
 said . . .
 “Item. Questioned as to whether she knew that she had a bad repu
tation and that she was hated, she said...
 “Item. Questioned as to why she had cast in his face the words, ‘You
 will not pass with impunity,’ she said...151
 “Item. Questioned as to what evil that person had done to her so that
 she uttered such words to his harm, she said...”
 Note that this line of questioning is necessary in order to reach the
 foundation of the enmity, because in the end the denounced woman
 will allege enmity. But when the enmity is not mortal but merely the
 kind stirred up in the female fashion, it forms no hindrance, since it
 is characteristic of sorceresses to stir up such enmity against themselves
 either by pointless152 words or by deeds. For instance, she asks to have
 something given to her as a present or inflicts some harm on the other
 woman in her garden and similar acts, for the purpose of gaining an
 opportunity.153 Theymanifestthemselvesinwordorwork,beingobliged
 to make this manifestation at the insistence of the demons, in order that
 in this way the sins of the judges will be aggravated when the sorceresses
 remain unpunished.154 Note also that they do this in the absence of
 149 This assumption that those who deny the existence of sorcery must be sorceresses brings to
 mind the accused sorceress Scheuberin’s rejection of Institoris’s preaching (see Pt. ii n. 433).
 150 Note how expressing doubts about the justice of previous burnings of sorceresses is taken as
 evidence that the doubter is a sorceress.
 151 This quote brings to mind the threat of the old sorceress to the rude parish priest (100A).
 152 The sense of this is not entirely clear. Perhaps what is meant is that at Satan’s behest sorceresses
 intentionally make unreasonable (“pointless”) requests in order to cause strife 210A–B, 232B).
 The expression here may well be a Latin version of the German unnutze Worte (literally, “need
less” or “useless words”), which was used to describe speech considered to be impudent, coarse
 or spiteful.
 153 Compare the story (136A–D) of a woman whose neighbor supposedly walked carelessly across
 her garden in order to cause a legal case.
 154 Here is one of the “fixes” necessary to remedy the internal illogic of the construct of Satanism.
 If the purpose of the “cult” is to inflict unmotivated harm, then there should be no reason for
 201C
520
 The Hammer of Witches 201C–D
 witnesses so that if a person giving a deposition wished to produce
 witnesses, he would not be able to. Note also that they are egged on by
 the demons, as we have learned from many sorceresses later burned to
 ashes, so that they have to cause trouble and inflict harm with sorcery
 against their own will.155
 201D
 “Item. Questioned as to how the effect that the child or domestic
 animal was so quickly affected with sorcery could have followed after
 the threats, she said...
 “Item. Questioned, ‘And how is it that you said that she would never
 have a healthy day, and this is what happened?’ she said...156
 “Item. If she denies everything, she should be asked about other acts
 of sorcery that were inflicted on other witnesses, for instance in their
 domestic animals or children.
 “Item. Questioned as to why she was seen in the fields or in the barn
 with the domestic animals, touching them in the way that sorceresses
 do, she said...
 “Item. Questioned as to why it was that she touched the child, and
 later it was not well, she said...157
 “Item. Questioned as to what she was doing in the fields at the time
 of the storm,” and so on about many other events.
 “Item. What caused the fact that while she had one cow or two, she
 had a larger supply of milk than the neighboring women with four or
 six?158
 “Item. Why does she remain in a state of adultery or as a concubine?”
 Although these questions have nothing to do with the issue, they
 nonetheless generate suspicion more than is the case with denounced
 women who are upright and respectable.159
 the harm-doer to reveal herself. If that were the procedure, however, there would be no way to
 discover the perpetrator, and since there was often somepre-existingenmitybetweentheaccuser
 andaccused that led to the accusation, this fact was seized upon as an indication of the existence
 of the supposed sorcery, a specious reason being concocted to explain this illogical proceeding,
 namely that the demons insist that the sorceresses reveal themselves in order to aggravate the
 sins of the irresponsible judges who let these supposedly obvious crimes go unpunished.
 155 For demons compelling the sorceresses to act malevolently against their will, see 99A.
 156 Compare the similar threat made by the jilted girlfriend against the new bride in 94A.
 157 Compare the anecdote about an abortion caused by mere touch in 114D.
 158 Such peasant envy is a long-standing custom. The law of the Twelve Tables (a Roman legal code
 of the fifth century bc) prohibited the use of magical incantations to take away the fertility of
 one’s neighbors’ fields and put it into one’s own.
 159 The very practice of asking irrelevant questions about the sexual behavior of the accused
 sorceresses was one of the legal abuses that led to opposition to Institoris when he conducted
 his unsuccessful inquisition in Innsbruck in 1484.
Part III 201D–202B
 521
 Note that she should be questioned several times about the articles
 for which she was denounced to see whether or not she maintains her
 story.
 After theconfessioniscompletedandtranscribed,whetherinnegative
 or positive vein or ambiguously, it should state: “These transactions were
 conducted in Such-and-Such place” and so on (as above).
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 6:
 Eymeric, Dir. “Methods 1, 2, 3 of conducting and continuing the
 process in a case involving the faith” (de modo prosequendi et
 continuandi processum in causa fidei)]
 question seven, in which various doubts are
 explained about the previous lists of questions
 and negative answers, whether the denounced
 woman should be imprisoned, and when she
 should be considered to be manifestly caught in
 the heresy of sorceresses (step two)
 202A
 THE first question raisediswhatshouldbedoneif,asis gen
erally the case, the denounced person denies everything. The response
 is that the judge has to consider whether or not three things– bad
 reputation, the indications of the deed, and the statements of the wit
nesses– all point in the same direction. If they do, this is generally the
 case because sorceresses are immediately branded with a bad reputa
tion because of crimes in some village or city. Indications of the deed
 are obvious, for instance in the form of children affected by sorcery or
 domestic animals, which are quite often diseased or deprived of milk.
 Thenumberofwitnessesisalsowrittendown.160 Althoughthewitnesses
 are individual, one for instance making a deposition that she affected
 his son with sorcery, the second saying this of a domestic animal, the
 third mentioning bad reputation, and so on with other instances, they
 nonetheless agree on the essence of the deed, that is, on the subject of 202B
 acts of sorcery and the fact that the sorceress is suspect. These witnesses
 are not sufficient for condemnation in the absence of a bad reputation
 or even with it, as was discussed above in Question Three,161 but with
 the addition of indications of the deed she could, on the basis of these
 160 Presumably this refers to Q. 2.
 161 197C (in Q. 2).
522
 The Hammer of Witches 202B–C
 three elements together, be considered to be not a strongly or violently
 suspected sorceress (about these suspicions there will be an explanation
 below),162 but to be manifestly caught in the Heresy of Sorceresses, pro
vided that suitable witnesses (ones not acting on the basis of enmity
 and sufficient in number, for instance six, eight or ten) coincide under
 oath. Consequently she would be subject to the penalties in Chapter
 “Ad abolendam” §“Praesenti” (“Heretics”) and in the second Chapter
 “Excommunicamus” (whether she has confessed the crime or not).
 202C
 These statements are proven as follows. When it was said that, in the
 situation where all of the three elements mentioned before coincide, she
 ought to beconsidered as manifestly caught in the Heresy of Sorceresses,
 it shouldnotbeunderstoodthatallthreemustcoincideatthesametime.
 This is proven by a fortiori arguments. If either the indication of the
 deedorthelawfulproductionofwitnessescanbyitself result in someone
 being considered to be manifestly caught in heretical depravity, how
 much more is this the case when both proofs coincide together? When
 the jurists ask the number of methods by which someone is by law
 considered to be caught manifestly in heretical depravity, they answer
 “three,” as BernardnotesintheOrdinaryGlossontheword“Deprehensi”
 [“caught”] in Chapter “Ad abolendam,” §“Praesenti”(Extra, “Heretics”),
 and as was discussed above163 in Question One in the beginning of the
 work. The first proof is the evidence of the deed, for instance that he
 preached heresy publicly. In this category we place the indication of
 the deed consisting of public threats that she made by saying, “You
 will never have healthy days” or the like, and the subsequent effect.
 Next (Bernard continues) comes the method consisting of lawful proof
 through witnesses, or, third, that of her own confession. Hence, if any
 of these proofs by itself makes and renders someone manifestly suspect,
 how much more is this the case when at the same time bad reputation
 and the indications of the deed are combined with the deposition of the
 witnesses? Though “evident deed” is mentioned there and “indication
 of the deed” here, the reason for this is that the Devil does not work
 manifestly but secretly, and the losses and the devices for sorcery that are
 foundgiveanindicationofthedeed.Hence,whiletheevidentdeedalone
 wouldbesufficientintheotherformsofheresy,herewecombinethree.164
 162 Q. 19 (221A–224D).
 163 12A–B.
 164 This paragraph represents an attempt to subvert the normal standards for proof used in con
temporary courts because the usual proofs were inapplicable to a crime that took place at
Part III 202D
 523
 The second point (that although the person caught makes a denial, 202D
 he should still be punished according to those chapters) is proven as fol
lows. Thepersoncaughtbytheevidenceofthedeedorthroughwitnesses
 either confesses or does not. If he confesses and is penitent, according
 to Chapter “Ad abolendam” (cited above) he should be handed over
 to the secular arm to be stricken with the ultimate penalty;165 accord
ing to the second Chapter “Excommunicamus” he should be cast into
 life imprisonment.166 If, on the other hand, he does not confess but
 maintains his denial, he should be handed over as an impenitent to
 the authority of the secular court to have the due penalty inflicted
 on him, as Hostiensis notes in Summa, “Heretics,” Chapter “Qualiter
 deprehendatur.”
 In this way, then, it is concluded that if the judge adopts such a
 procedure concerning the list of questions and the depositions of wit
nesses, since the proceedings in cases involving the Faith can, as has been
 stated, be summary, straightforward and informal, and if he remands the
 denounced woman to prison temporarily or for several years in case she
 will be worn down by the misery of prison and confess her crimes, his
 proceeding would be not unjust but just. Yet, to avoid the appearance of
 anticipating the sentence and to seem rather to be proceeding according
 to every form of fairness, the question is raised as to what should next
 be done.167
 some distance from the infliction of harm on the victim and was normally incapable of
 being seen by any eyewitnesses (apart from the perpetrators). This seemingly insoluble prob
lem is circumvented by equating “indications of the deed” (that is, circumstantial evidence)
 with the “evidence of the deed” (that is, direct proof) that would normally be needed for
 conviction.
 165 I.e., execution.
 166 This passage is a misrepresentation of what Eymeric correctly states about the legal situa
tion. In Eymeric, the topic is whether an inquisitor can release under surety someone who
 has been “caught” in heresy and arrested for this. The answer Eymeric gives is no: “For he
 is either caught by his own confession or he is not. If he is and is impenitent, he should
 be handed over to the secular court to be stricken with the ultimate penalty according to
 Chapter ‘Ad abolendam’ §‘Praesenti’; if he is penitent, he is to be cast into life imprison
ment according to the second Chapter ‘Excommunicamus.’” Here, in the case of the accused
 who has confessed, the if-clause that goes with the result consisting of execution is changed
 to state that he is penitent instead of impenitent, and the removal of the if-clause that
 introduces the punishment of life imprisonment changes the meaning to indicate that in
 the case of penitence, two decretals provide for different punishments, one execution, the
 other life imprisonment. Since the legal situation is correctly reported in 207B and 224B
C, the garbling here, which involves more than simply leaving out a clause, is presumably
 inadvertent.
 167 Note that at this point the accused is considered guilty and worthy of execution, and the rest of
 the preceding consists of nothing but a lot of legal mummery to give the appearance of fairness.
524
 The Hammer of Witches 202D–203B
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 7:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.72, 89, 90]
 203A
 203B
 question eight (which is related to the
 preceding one): whether she should be
 imprisoned and the method of arrest
 (and the judge’s third step)
 AS to whether in a situation of negative responses the sorceress
 should beplacedinprisonfordetention whenthethreeelementsalready
 mentioned (bad reputation, indications of the deed and the production
 of witnesses) coincide, or she should be released under the guarantee of
 sureties that she will respond when summoned back, an answer can be
 given on the basis of three views.
 First, there is the pronouncement of some that she should be put
 in prison and should by no means be released under a guarantee. In
 this they rely on the reasoning mentioned in the preceding question,168
 namely, that she is considered to be manifestly caught when those three
 elements coincide.
 Others feel that before imprisonment she can be released under the
 guarantee of sureties, so that if she takes flight, she is then considered
 convicted. She should not, however, be released under a guarantee or
 pledge after imprisonment in a situation of negative responses, that is,
 whenthe three elements mentioned above coincide, because in that case
 she could be sentenced and executed. In this they rely on custom.
 The third group consists of those who think that no inflexible rule
 should be given, and that it should rather be left to the judge to decide
 according to the statements of the witnesses and the bad reputation of
 the person– all the more severely if the indications coincide– acting
 on the basis of local procedure and upholding custom. They conclude
 that if she could not get noteworthy sureties, perhaps being suspected
 of wishing to flee, then she should be put in prison.
 This third pronouncement seems the more reasonable one, provided
 that the appropriate procedure consisting of three elements is main
tained. First, her house should, as far as possible, be searched under
neath and above, in all corners, holes and cupboards. If she is in fact a
 sorceress, then without a doubt various devices for sorcery will be found
 168 202B–C.
Part III 203B–D
 525
 in the way discussed above,169 unless they were previously concealed by
 her. Second, if she has a maid or companions, they should be locked up
 separately, even if they are not denounced. It is presumed that they are
 not unaware of certain secrets of the denounced woman. Third, if at the
 time of arrest she is not arrested in her own house, she should be given
 no time to enter her room, because in that case they get certain devices
 for sorcery and take them with them to cause silence.170
 Mention of this silence raises a doubt as to the lawfulness of the
 method that certain men follow in arresting sorceresses. In this method,
 she is raised off the ground by the judge’s staff and carried in a basket
 or on their shoulders to prevent her from touching the ground.171 It can
 be responded on the basis of the pronouncement of the canonists and
 certain theologians that this is lawful in consideration of three things.
 First, as was explained in the introductory question of the present Part
 Three,172 it is the opinion of very many Doctors– of those Doctors,
 in fact, whose statements no one dares to censure, like Hostiensis and
 Gofridus– that it is lawful to smash vanities with vanities. Also expe
rience, and indeed the confessions of sorceresses, show that quite often
 they have lost the sorcery of silence through such a method of arrest.
 How many of those who were to be burned to ashes have asked to be
 allowed to touch the ground with just one foot! When this was denied
 to them and at the end they were asked why ever they had wished to
 touch the ground, they answered that if they had done so, they would
 have freed themselves, killing many people with bolts of lightning.
 Another reason is that it is manifest, as was explained in Part Two173
 203C
 of the work, that in public justice all the strength in sorcery is bro- 203D
 ken in respect to the past, but as for the future, unless she is suc
coured anew by the Devil in the sorcery of silence, she confesses all
 her crimes. Let us therefore say with the Apostle: “Whatever we do in
 word or work, let it all be done in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ”
 [Coll. 3:17]. If she is in fact innocent, this kind of arrest will do her no
 harm.
 169 200D.
 170 That is the sorcery of silence (210C).
 171 The letter from the burgermasters and city council of Ravensburg directly attests that the
 inquisitor who visited them (almost certainly Institoris) directed that when suspects were being
 arrested, they should be raised off the ground and not allowed to touch it.
 172 Actually, the relevant discussion (153A–154B) is in the introductory question of Pt. ii,Q.2. This
 reference seems to derive from an earlier draft of the work in which Pt. ii,Q.2 formed part of
 Pt. iii.
 173 87A–C.
526
 The Hammer of Witches 203C–204B
 The third consideration is that if, according to the Doctors, it is
 lawful to break acts of sorcery through vain works– they all agree on
 this point,althoughtheydisagreeaboutwhethersuchvanitiesshouldnot
 be unlawful, and hence Hostiensis’s statement that it is lawful to smash
 vanities with vanities is glossed by other people: “Note that he says ‘with
 vanities’ but not ‘with unlawful means’”– afortiori it is lawful to impede
 acts of sorcery, and in this situation it is such an impediment and not
 the practice of some illegal act that is being taken into consideration.
 204A
 204B
 In addition, the judgenotesthattherearetwokindsofimprisonment.
 One is penal, when criminals are put in it. The other is merely for
 detention, and this one is implemented in the city hall. (These two
 kinds of imprisonment are mentioned in Chapter “Multorum querela”
 (cited above). Hence, she should be imprisoned at least for detention.)
 If the acts for which she is accused are trivial, so that she does not
 have a bad reputation and there are no indications of a deed concerning
 children or domestic animals, then she should be sent back home. In
 the situation where she happens to have familiarity with sorceresses and
 knows their secrets, she should give sureties, and if she cannot get any,
 she should not leave home unless summoned, being boundbyoathsand
 attendant penalties.
 The servants and friends mentioned above174 should be imprisoned
 for detention and not for punishment.
 question nine: what should be done after
 the arrest, and whether the names of those
 giving depositions should be made known
 to her (step four)
 TWOthings are doneafter the arrest (which of them first is left
 up to the judge): the granting of arguments in defense and examination
 in the torture chamber (without the use of torture). The first is not
 granted unless she seeks it. The second is done only after the maids and
 associates, if she has any at home, are examined. Let us proceed in the
 order given here.
 If theaccusedwomansaysthatsheisinnocent,thatshehasbeenfalsely
 denounced, and that she would gladly look at and hear her accusers,
 this is a sign that she is seeking arguments for defense. As to whether the
 judge is bound to make known to her those making depositions and to
 174 203B.
Part III 204B–C
 527
 bring them into her presence, at this point the judge should note that
 he is obligated to do neither of these things, that is, make the names
 known or bring them into her presence, unless those giving depositions
 themselves voluntarily offer to do this, that is, be brought into their
 presence and to cast into the faces of the sorceresses the things about
 which they have given depositions.
 That the judge is not obliged to do this (because of the danger to
 those givingdepositions) is provenasfollows.AlthoughvariousSupreme
 Pontiffs have given different pronouncements, none has ever given the
 pronouncement that a judge was obligated in such a case to make
 known to the accused the names of those giving depositions or of the
 accusers (though wearenotusingtheproceedingbyaccusation).Rather,
 some held the opinion that this was not lawful in any situation, others
 that it was in some. Finally, Boniface VIII ordained, as is explained in
 chapter “Statuta” §“Inhibemus175 (Liber Sextus): “We forbid the bishop
 and inquisitor” (note in place of the inquisitor and bishop any judge
 undertaking proceedings against sorceresses by consent of the bishop 204C
 or inquisitor, because the meaning is the same and the bishops and
 inquisitors can delegate their roles, as was explained in the introduc
tory question,176 and hence any such judge, even a secular one, carries
 out the proceedings under Apostolic and not merely Imperial author
ity) “to make the names of these people public if they see that accusers
 or witnesses who participate or give depositions in cases of heresy are
 endangered if it happens that their names are made public.” Below it
 continues, “But when the aforementioned danger ceases, the names of
 the accusers or witnesses should be made public as is done in other
 courts.”
 A circumspect judge should also make note of the power of the per
sons, which consists of three kinds: power of birth and family, power of
 money, and power of evil. The last of these is to be feared more than
 the other two, because it can endanger the witnesses more seriously if
 their names are made known to those against whom the witnesses have
 given depositions. The reason is that it is a greater danger to make their
 names known to some denounced poor person who has as accomplices
 in his evil acts rebels and murderers, who have nothing to lose but their
 lives, than it is to make them known to a well born person or a rich one
 abounding in temporal goods.177
 175 This word appears as iubemus in the official text of the canon.
 176 184B–193D.
 177 This naive exhibition of class prejudice derives from Eymeric.
528
 The Hammer of Witches 204C–205A
 204D
 205A
 What “serious danger” is and what constitutes it is explained by
 John Andreae on the word “periculum” [“danger”] mentioned above.
 He says, “‘Danger’: the fear of the death or maiming of themselves
 or their children or parents or the devastation of their property or the
 like.”
 Thejudge should also note that his proceedings in these matters have
 Apostolic authority based on the decision of the bishop, because both
 the judge himself and also all the assessors who attended the depositions
 of the witnesses or will possibly later attend the passing of sentence are
 obliged not to reveal the secrecy of the names of those giving testimony
 under penalty of excommunication; if they do otherwise the bishop
 will be able to fulminate178 against them. (He fulminated to this effect
 at least implicitly from the beginning of the proceedings.) Then, in
 the cited Chapter “Statuta” §“Et ut eorundem” it says the following.
 “In order to obviate more effectively the dangers to these accusers and
 witnesses and to make the proceedings in the business of the inquisition
 more cautious, by the authority of the present decree We allow the
 bishop and inquisitors” (understand as above) “to impose secrecy upon
 those to whom, as has already been stated, they will explain proceedings
 of this kind, and, if without their permission any people reveal to
 others the secrets of the council or the protocol revealed to them by
 this bishop or inquisitors, to promulgate, if they see fit, the sentence of
 excommunicationthatthesepeoplehaveipsofactoincurredbyviolating
 the secret.”
 It should be further noted that just as there is an attendant penalty
 in a situation where the names of the witnesses are improperly revealed,
 there is an attendant penalty in a situation where they are improperly
 concealed. This is when the names are concealed from those to whom
 they should be revealed, namely the legal experts and assessors on whose
 advice sentence shouldbeproceededwith,orwhentheydonotmakethe
 names known in a situation where they do not reveal the names when
 they could be revealed without danger to the witnesses, as in the cited
 Chapter “Statuta.” There it continues at the end: “In any case, in all
 regards We order that both the bishops and inquisitors should earnestly
 andcarefully make sure not to say that the situation is dangerous when it
 is safe in order to suppress the names of the witnesses, or claim safety in
 178 “Fulmination” is a technical term for the forceful expression of an ecclesiastic threat.
Part III 205A–C
 529
 a situation of risk to them, and We burden their consciences with this.”
 Here the Archdeacon says the following. “As for you who are serving as
 a judge in such a case, pay close attention to these words. He does not 205B
 mean ‘small danger’ if he says ‘serious.’ Do not, therefore, deprive the
 accused of the procedure of the law without a significant justification,
 since this cannot be done without offending God.”
 The reader should note that because all the foregoing and also what
 follows downtothemethodsofsentencingwithoutthepenaltyofblood,
 in which an ecclesiastical judge may pass judgment,179 can be done by
 a secular judge with the consent of the diocesans, the reader should
 not find it problematical if in the chapter it is an ecclesiastical and not a
 secular judge who is mentioned. The secular judge will base his methods
 of passing sentence of blood on the ordinaries’ methods of sentencing
 and imposing penance.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 9:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.75, 76, 81]
 question ten: how lines of defense are to be
 granted along with the assignment of an
 advocate (step five)
 IF, then, she seeks lines of defense, how can this be granted when
 the names of the witnesses are altogether concealed? It should be said
 that the defense consists of three elements. The first is the assignment of
 an advocate to her.180 The second is not making the names of the wit
nesses known to that advocate, not even under an oath to maintain the
 secret, though he should be informed of the specifics contained in the 205C
 protocol.181 The third is putting the better interpretation, as far as possi
ble, on the case of the denounced person, though without scandalizing
 the Faith or harming justice, as will be explained.182 The same applies to
 the legal representative, to whom a copy of the entire protocol is given,
 179 The phrase “down to...judgment” is not expressed very clearly. The sense is explained in 193C
 (also see 251B), and what is meant is that the ecclesiastical judge may not pass a sentence of
 execution but should be involved in the “sentences to penance.”
 180 Only this topic is discussed in the present chapter.
 181 This topic is discussed in the next chapter.
 182 Seemingly there is no subsequent discussion of this topic.
530
 The Hammer of Witches 205C–D
 though with the names of the witnesses and of those giving depositions
 suppressed. The advocate will also be able to conduct proceedings as a
 legal representative.
 As for the first point, it is noted that an advocate is not assigned
 according to the pleasure of the denounced person, for instance because
 he wasinclined to have one particular person. What judges should make
 every provision against is granting a litigious, evil-spirited person, who
 could easily be corrupted by money, as such people are often found to
 be. Rather, he should grant to the accused an upright person who is not
 suspected of being fussy about legal niceties.
 205D
 The judge should note four practices in an advocate.183 If these are
 followed by anadvocate, the judge should allow his advocacy; otherwise,
 he has to reject the advocate. The advocate should first examine the
 character of the case, and if it seems just to him, he should take it on if
 he wishes to. If, on the other hand, he thinks it unjust, he should refuse
 it. Hence, he should be very careful not to take on a case that is unjust
 and hopeless. It is true that if unwittingly in the beginning he accepted
 the case as well as a fee but in the proceedings realized that the case was
 hopeless, then if he did not consult his little client, that is, the person
 denounced, about his withdrawal, he is obligated to return the retainer
 he received, according to Geoffrey, who thinks he proves this with “Rem
 non nova” in Chapter of the Code “Trials” [Code of Justinian 3.1.14].
 Hostiensis [Summa 1.40.5], on the other hand, says the opposite, that
 the retainer should be returned only if he did this on purpose. Hence, if
 a wicked advocate knowingly urges upon his little client the defense of
 an unjust case, he is liable for the losses and expenses, (Chapter of the
 Code “ManagementbyGuardians,”“Nonest ignotum”[Code of Justinian
 5.37.6]).184
 The second practice that he ought to follow is to maintain three
 procedures in his advocacy. The first is restraint, so that he does not
 hold forth insolently or insultingly or clamorously (same Chapter of
 the Code,“Quoniam”).185 The second procedure is truthfulness, that is,
 he should not lie by dragging in false arguments and proofs or false
 183 Apparently these four consist of the topic of the present paragraph plus the threefold division
 of the topic of the next one.
 184 Thelawinquestionactuallypenalizes guardians for taking advantage of their right to lodge suits
 in the names of their wards in order to lodge false claims for their own benefit, a circumstance
 of no relevance to the issue at hand.
 185 There is no such law in that title, but suitable provisions are laid out in Code of Justinian 2.6.6
 (“Quisquis”).
Part III 205D–206B
 531
 witnesses or rights (if he is a legal expert). He should also not seek
 delays, especially in connection with such a case, where the proceedings
 are summary, straightforward and informal, as was discussed above186 in
 Question Six and is stated in 3,Q.7,“Haec tria.” The third procedure
 concerns the retainer, which he should keep reasonable according to 206A
 the custom of the region (this topic is treated in 3,Q.7, §“Arcentur”
 and §“Tria” [Decretum 2.3.7.1, §8 of quotation of Digest, §1 of
 commentary].
 Back to the matter at hand. The judge should explain the con
ditions described above and should at the end enjoin him not to
 incur the charge of abetting heresy, because in that case he would be
 excommunicate according to the first Chapter “Excommunicamus” §
 “Credentes.”
 It is not valid if he says to the judge that he is defending not the
 error but the person, because he ought not to present a defense in
 any way at all that prevents the proceedings from being summary,
 straightforward and informal, which he would do if he wanted in any
 way to ask for delays or to interpose appeals (which are all rejected,
 as is recounted there187 in Question Six). Although he is not defend
ing the error, since in that case he would be more damnable than the
 sorceresses themselves and a heresiarch rather than a heretical sorcerer,
 as is explained in 24,Q. 3,“Qui illorum,” nonetheless, by improperly
 defending someone suspected of heresy, he makes himself similar to an
 abettorofheresy,beingnotmerelylightlybutseriouslysuspectedbecause
 of the defense that he has mounted, and he ought to make a public
 abjuration before the bishop according to the frequently cited Chapter
 “Accusatur.”
 Thesepointshavebeensetdownatlength–andthejudgeshouldnot 206B
 underestimate their importance– because very many dangers arise from
 an advocate (legal representative) who strives to conduct the proceeding
 falsely. Hence, when the advocate is worthy of censure, the judge should
 byallmeansrejecthimandproceedaccordingtowhathasbeenprovenin
 thetransactions. Nonetheless,ifthejudgehasanirreproachableadvocate
 for the denounced person, that is, a zealous man who loves justice, he
 will be able to indicate the names of the witnesses to him, but under an
 oath to keep the secret.188
 186 199B–C.
 187 199C.
 188 Whatthisall meansisthattheaccusedshouldonlybeallowedan“advocate”whowillnotinfact
 obstruct the swift progress of the proceedings in the manner in which the presiding magistrate
532
 The Hammer of Witches 206B–C
 question eleven: what the advocate will do when
 the names of the witnesses are not revealed to
 him (step six)
 206C
 IFit is askedwhattheadvocate will then do for the denounced per
soninhiscapacityaslegalrepresentativewhenthenamesofthewitnesses
 are revealed neither to him nor to his client (what the denounced person
 hankers after most is for them to be revealed), the response is that he
 should receive information from the judge about the specifics contained
 in the protocol. If he does wish to have a copy, it should be handed over
 to him, with the names of the witnesses suppressed. Being informed
 in this way, he should approach the denounced person and set out the
 specifics to him. If the content so dictates, that is, because it is quite
 prejudicial to the denounced person, then the advocate should urge him
 to endure.189 When the denounced person again and again insists that
 thewitnessesshouldbemadeknowntohim,he190 cananswer,“Fromthe
 deedsdenouncedagainstyou,youwillbeabletoconjecturewhothewit
nesses are. For Such-and-Such had a son (or domestic animal) affected
 by sorcery.” Or “You said to Such-and-Such man (or woman), because
 the person was unwilling to provide you with such-and-such a thing
 that you were asking for, ‘You will realize that it would have been better
 for you to have lent the thing to me.’ After these words, Such-and-Such
 suddenly fell ill. Your deeds shout out as testimony, and this testimony
 is given more weight than is the testimony of words.”191 Or “Even you
 know that you have a bad reputation and have for a long time been
 suspected of many acts of sorcery and of losses inflicted on humans.” By
 repeating words of this kind the judge will finally reach the point where
 she will either allege enmities, claiming that the reproaches cast at her
 derive from enmity, or say, “I admit that I said these words, but with no
 intention of causing harm.”
 At this point the advocate has to set out for the judge and assessors
 the first point, namely enmity, and the judge has to investigate it. If
 thinks they should be proceeding. Presumably, this protracted elaboration on Eymeric derives
 from Institoris’s unhappy experience in Innsbruck, where Johann Merwait the advocate for
 the accused, obstructed the inquisition through the outrageous demand that the proceedings
 adhere to legal procedure.
 189 Apparently the zealous advocate’s role is to thwart the client, whom he thinks guilty; for this
 endurance, cf. 240B.
 190 I.e., the judge.
 191 Note how the conclusion from the supposed evidence outweighs any subsequent explanation
 on the part of the accused.
Part III 206C–207A
 533
 in fact the enmity is found to be mortal, that is, that death had been
 intended or had resulted among spouses or blood relations, or that
 someone was implicated in a crime for which that person would be
 liable to punishmentbypublicjustice,orthattherewereseriouswounds 206D
 inflicted as a result of disputes or quarrels, then the foresightful judge
 will discusswithhisassessorswhethertheworseningoftheenmitywason
 the part of the woman denounced or the person giving the deposition.
 An example would be that her husband or friends unjustly prevailed
 over people associated with the person giving the deposition. In that
 case, if there are no indications of the deed in terms of children or
 domestic animals or if there are no other witnesses or because general
 rumor is not worked up, then it is presumed that the deposition was
 made against her for the sake of vengeance, and the woman denounced
 should by all means be absolved and granted her freedom, with due
 warning about not seeking vengeance and so on, as is the custom of
 judges.
 The following question is raised. Katherine has a son affected by
 sorcery or is herself affected by it or has received very many losses in
 terms of domestic animals, and she suspects the woman whose husband
 orbloodrelationspreviouslyprevailedoverherhusbandorbloodrelation
 unjustly in a public court. Hence, there are two kinds of enmity on
 the part of the woman giving the deposition, in that she is an enemy
 on account of the sorcery that has been inflicted192 and on account of
 the infamy unjustly cast upon her husband or blood relation. Is her
 deposition to be debarred or not? In fact, it seems on the one hand that 207A
 it should be, since there is enmity in this situation, and on the other that
 it should not be, since she offers indications of the deed.193 The response
 is that in a situation where no one else is present to give depositions and
 the general rumor is not worked up about the denounced womaneither,
 then her deposition alone is not relied upon and instead is debarred.
 Yet, the denounced woman is rendered suspect if and to the extent that
 the disease was caused by sorcery and not natural defect (how this can
 be determined will be explained below),194 so that she is to be purged in
 the manner prescribed by the Canon.
 192 It is taken for granted that the person accused by Katherine did in fact commit sorcery, but that
 of course is precisely the issue in question.
 193 But the offering of circumstantial evidence has nothing to do with whether the testimony
 should be debarred on the grounds of bias. In any case, this “evidence” is merely the fact that
 the deponent has suffered some sort of misfortune, which has nothing to do with the question
 of whether it was the accused who committed it.
 194 207D–208A.
534
 The Hammer of Witches 207A–B
 207B
 If a further question is raised as to whether others have to give depo
sitions first about the things that happened to them or to others or only
 about bad reputation, the response is that if they give depositions about
 certain indications of the deed, fine, but if they do so only about bad
 reputation and such is in reality the case, then although the judge debars
 the person giving a deposition because of enmity, he will nonetheless,
 onthebasis of the other witnesses who195 gave depositions about the bad
 reputation, take as a sign of strong suspicion the indication of the deed
 that she mentioned and proved. Onthebasis of this suspicion, the judge
 will be able to pass judgment on the denounced woman in detention
 withreference to three sorts of punishment:canonicalpurgationbecause
 of bad reputation according to Chapter “Inter sollicitudines” (Extra,
 “Canonical Purgation”), abjuration because of suspicion according to
 the beginning of Chapter “Accusatus,” and various kinds of abjuration
 associated with various suspicions, as will be explained on the topic of
 Method Four196 of passing sentence.
 If he197 confesses the crime and repents, because of the indications of
 the deedheisnotlefttotheseculararmforthepunishmentofblood,but
 he is sentenced to life imprisonment by an ecclesiastical judge. Nonethe
less, despite the fact that he has been sentenced to life imprisonment,
 the secular judge can consign him to the flames because of the temporal
 losses according to Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Praesenti” and the sec
ond Chapter “Excommunicamus” (“Heretics”). (All these matters will be
 explained below in the part on Method Six198 of passing sentence.)
 In summation. The judge should first take care not to be ready to
 believe the advocate in a situation where the denounced woman alleges
 mortal enmity, because it is very seldom the case with such a charge
 that someone makes a deposition without enmity, since sorceresses are
 always considered loathsome by everyone.199
 Second, he should note that there are four200 methods by which a
 sorceress can be convicted: by witnesses, by the evidence of the deed,
 195 The form of the relative pronoun indicates that these witnesses are conceived of as female.
 196 Q.23 (228A–230A).
 197 Adjectival agreement in the Latin shows that the author has reverted to the generalizing mas
culine, presumably because the canon law cited discusses heretics in general and not sorceresses
 in particular.
 198 Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 199 The reasoning is, of course, circular: someone is reputed by her enemies to be a sorceress and
 therefore the evident enmity that ought to debar their testimony is ignored because she has a
 reputation as a sorceress.
 200 In 210A only three methods are mentioned, because in that passage the evidence of the deed
 and the indications of the deed are considered alternatives.
Part III 207C–D
 535
 by the indications of the deed, and by her own confession, either in 207C
 a situation merely involving bad reputation, so that it would happen
 merely through witnesses, or in a situation of suspicion, and in that
 case it happens through the evidence of the deed or indications of the
 deed, on the basis of which the suspicion can be judged to be light or
 strong or violent. All these factors are separate from her own confession,
 and if they coincide, then the proceedings would follow the method
 mentioned.
 Third, he should apply the foregoing to his intention regarding the
 person under detention in order to thwart the advocate, but this should
 happen only in the case of a denounced woman of bad reputation or
 when certain indications coincide in the case and hence she is rendered
 strongly or lightly suspect. In this case, he will be able to respond to the
 advocate with reference to the alleged enmity.
 These statements apply to the situation where the advocate for the
 denounced person has alleged enmity on the part of those giving depo
sitions. In the situation where he makes the second allegation, that is,
 when, withreference to the words that she uttered against the one giving
 the deposition (“You will soon realize what is going to happen to you,”
 or “You will have no more healthy days,” or “It will soon happen that
 youwill wish youhadlent(orsold) such-and-such thing to me,” and the
 like), the advocate retorts that although some evil then ensued to the 207D
 detriment of the person giving the deposition in terms of possessions or
 bodies, it does not follow that this denounced woman was the cause of
 this evil as a sorceress, because illnesses can happen in many ways, and
 he also pleads that it is a common trait of women to recriminate against
 each other with words of this sort, and so on, the judge can thwart such
 claims in the following way. If the illness did in fact happen as the result
 of a natural defect, then the excuse could be relevant, but the signs and
 the experimenta lead to a general agreement to the contrary, because the
 victim could not be healed with any natural remedy. Or maybe it was
 the judgmentofthephysicians that the disease was one of sorcery (called
 “Nachtschaden” [“nocturnal harm”] in the vernacular). Or such was the
 judgment of other enchantresses201 who assert (or asserted) that it was
 a disease caused by sorcery. Or it came on suddenly without any prior
 201 In the Nuremberg Handbook the term “enchantress” (incantatrix) is used to describe those
 practitioners of magic who are not included in the Heresy of Sorceresses and who, while they
 are worthy of punishment, are not subject to the savage penalties of heretical sorcery. The
 corresponding German text does not give a translation of the term, but does refer to the action
 of such people as Zauberei (“magic”), and the following chapter refers to the people intended
 here as Zauberer (“magicians”).
536
 The Hammer of Witches 207D–208B
 208A
 208B
 weakening, despite the fact that natural illnesses regularly cause progres
sive debilitation. Or maybe she was healed by finding certain devices
 for sorcery under her bed or clothing or other places, and when these
 were removed, she was suddenly restored to health, which is very often
 the case, as was explained in Part Two202 of the work, where remedies
 were discussed. By these and similar arguments the judge can very easily
 make the counter argument that such an illness happened as a result of
 sorcery rather than a natural defect. He can also suspect sorcery because
 of the threats she hurled. For instance, by analogous reasoning, if some
one says, “I hope your granary burns down,” and this effect ensues, this
 clearly raises the violent suspicion that the person who uttered the threat
 set the fire, although perhaps it was someone else who burned it down
 and not the person who uttered the threats.
 question twelve follows on the same topic,
 further explaining how mortal enmity is to be
 investigated (step seven)
 ITbeing noted that,whileonlymortalenemiesaredebarredfrom
 bearing witness, as was discussed above in Question Five, it perhaps
 seems to a judge to be too murky or difficult a matter to determine such
 enmity on the basis of the discussions in the preceding chapter, and that
 the accused person or his legal representative would not be willing to
 acquiesce readily in his determination about this topic, that is, what is
 or is not mortal enmity, other methods should be described by which
 a judge comes to know of such enmity, so that he will by no means
 condemnaninnocentperson in this way, but will punish the guilty with
 duejustice. These methodsmaybecraftyorevendeceitful,butthejudge
 cannonetheless follow themforthesakeoftheFaithandofthecommon
 good, since even the Apostle says, “Being cunning, I caught them by
 deceit” [2 Cor. 12:16]. In particular, these are methods followed in the
 case of those denounced people who have a bad reputation or those who
 do not even have the finger pointed at them by some indication of the
 deed, although the judge may follow them concerning any denounced
 people when they allege enmity against those giving depositions and
 want to learn the names of the witnesses by any means.
 Thefirstmethodisthatthepersondenouncedorhisadvocateisgiven
 a copy of the protocol on one side, that is, separately, and the names
 202 See esp. 175A (the notion is mentioned several times).
Part III 208B–D
 537
 of those giving depositions or making denunciations on the other, but
 not in the order in which they give the depositions. Instead, they are
 listed in such a way that the name of the witness who is first in the copy
 is sixth or seventh in the list and the second in the copy is next to last
 or last. Hence, the denounced person will not to be able to recognize 208C
 who gives this or that deposition and who is the first or second in his
 copy. Given this, he will either claim them all as enemies or not. If all,
 the denounced person will all the more quickly be censured for lying
 when the reason for the enmity is examined by the judge. If he claims
 certain ones as enemies, then the reason for the enmity will be more
 easily investigated.
 The second method would be analogous. Here, the advocate would
 be given a copy of the protocol on one side and the names of those
 giving depositions on the other, with the addition of extraneous crimes
 that were committed by sorceresses elsewhere and were not mentioned
 in the depositions of those who are written down as the givers of the
 depositions (witnesses). In this way, the denounced person will not be
 able to state as a fact that this or that one is a mortal enemy, because he
 will not know what depositions were given by them against him.
 The third method was also treated in Chapter Five.203 When the
 denounced person is examined at the end of the second examination,
 beforeheasksforargumentsindefenseandbeforeanadvocateisassigned
 to him, he should be questioned as to whether he considers that he has
 mortalenemieswhowoulddisregardallfearofGodandfalselyfoistupon
 him the stain of the Heresy of Sorceresses. In that case, through lack of
 premeditation and foresight and without seeing the attestations of those 208D
 giving depositions, he perhaps responds that he does not consider that
 he has such enemies. Or if he says, “I think that I do,” and then names
 them, they shouldbewritten downalongwiththereasonfortheenmity,
 so that the judge may later on conduct an investigation that is all the
 more certain when the copy of the protocol and the names are handed
 over separately in the manner treated above.204
 Thereis also a fourth method.Thisisthat for a secondtimeattheend
 of the second examination (confession) (which is treated in Question
 203 198D–199A.
 204 Since this is clearly the favored method, the comment on it made by Eymeric is salutary (450
 1A): “This method is crafty since the denounced person gives his response without forethought
 at a time when lines of defense have not been given and the depositions of the witnesses have
 not been shown, (though the method is not dangerous for those giving depositions). Hence, it
 does not seem that it should be advocated much, being harmful to the denounced person.”
538
 The Hammer of Witches 208D–209B
 209A
 209B
 Six205 on the topic of the second list of questions), before the lines for
 defense are given to him, he is questioned about the witnesses who have
 given more serious depositions against him in the following manner.
 “Do you know Such-and-Such?” (one of the witnesses who made a
 deposition about more serious charges is named). To this he says either
 yes or no. If he says no, then later on, when the lines for defense and the
 advocate are given to him, he will not be able to set down that person
 as a mortal enemy, since he said that he did not know him. If, on the
 other hand, he says yes, then he should be questioned as to whether he
 knows or has heard that he (or she) did something contrary to the Faith
 in the waythatsorceresses do. If he says, “Yes, he did such-and-such and
 such-and-such,” he is questioned as to whether this person is his friend
 or enemy. He will immediately say friend (in order that his testimony
 should be relied upon), and in that case from then on he cannot give
 this person as a mortal enemy through his advocate, since under oath he
 previously called him a friend. If he answers that he knows nothing206
 about the person, then he is questioned as to whether he is his friend
 or enemy, and he will immediately answer friend, because it is pointless
 to claim as an enemy someone about whom he knows nothing bad.207
 Hence, he will say, “I am his friend. Yet, if I knew anything, I would
 not fail to reveal it.”208 In this case, then, he will not be able to set him
 downlater on as an enemy. At any rate, if he cites reasons for the mortal
 enmity from the start, the advocate can be trusted.
 The fifth method is that the denounced person or the advocate is
 given a copy of the protocol with the names of those giving deposi
tions suppressed, and when the advocate informs him of the specifics,
 he conjectures which person or persons made such-and-such deposi
tions against him. He frequently figures the matter out, and then if
 he says, “Such-and-Such is a mortal enemy, and I wish to give proof
 through witnesses,” the judge has to consider whether he named him in
 205 Presumably, 201B–D.
 206 I.e., nothing about heretical statements made by the other person.
 207 Thelast clause has been added to Eymeric andisillogical. The mere fact that the suspect has not
 heard the deponent make heretical statements is irrelevant to the issue of whether that person
 is an enemy of the suspect.
 208 This sentence is a misunderstanding of the source material in Eymeric. There, if the suspect
 admitstoknowingthedeponentbutclaimsnottohaveheardhimmakeanyhereticalstatements,
 he is then asked if the deponent is his friend. If he says yes, “it nonetheless is not relied upon,
 since if he [i.e., the suspect] knew anything, why would he say it?” The point is that the
 suspected heretic’s claims about the deponent are disregarded, since he would not implicate his
 friend. Here, Eymeric’s rhetorical question about the suspect’s reliability has been incorrectly
 attributed to the suspect (and the sense of the question misconstrued).
Part III 209B–C
 539
 accordance with the protocol. In that case, because the denounced per
son said that he wished to give proof through witnesses, the judge will
 examine themandthereasons for the enmity, secretly convening for this
 purposeapanelofexpertsorofoldmen,sincewisdomresidesinthem.If
 in this way he finds sufficient reasons for mortal enmity, then he should
 f
 irst debar the witnesses, and the denounced person will be released if
 there are no other aggravating statements made by other witnesses. This
 f
 ifth method is quite commonly practiced.
 Sorceresses do in fact quickly gather from the copy of the protocol
 which men or women gave depositions against her. Because it very sel
dom happens that in a case of this kind some mortal enmity is found
 apart from the one that arises from their evil works, the judge can eas
ily resolve his uncertainty by means of the previous methods. It should
 also be noted that those giving depositions quite often desire to show
 themselves to the sorceresses in person and to cast into their faces the
 harmful things inflicted on them through acts of sorcery.
 Thereis also a finalmethodtowhichthejudgecanintheendresortin
 case some people happen to judge the previous methods to be deceitful
 practices of cunning (especially the first four). Therefore, to satisfy and 209C
 calm scrupulous minds and to prevent any reproach from being cast at
 the judge, he should notethat after he has learned through the preceding
 methods that there is no mortal enmity between the denounced person
 and the one giving the deposition, but wishes to reach this conclusion
 with a council of some assessors for the purpose of avoiding having any
 reproaches cast at him, heshoulddothefollowing.209 Heshouldgivethe
 denouncedpersonorhisadvocateacopyoftheprotocol,thoughwiththe
 namesofthosegivingdepositionsandmakingdenunciationssuppressed.
 Because the denounced person says in his defense that he has mortal
 enemies and perhaps claims various reasons for the enmities, whether or
 not they do in fact exist, the judge should nonetheless convene a council
 of legal experts of any faculty,210 if he can get them conveniently, or at
 least of any foresightful and respectable persons, because he is obligated
 to do so according to the frequently cited Chapter “Statuta,” and have
 the notary (scribe) read to them the whole protocol in a complete and
 209 All this talk about anticipating possible objections has been added here to Eymeric, who sets
 this sixth method on an equal footing with the others and says nothing about it being used only
 as a pretense after the truth has already been determined through one of the previous methods.
 210 Theregularfourfaculties of medieval universities were those of medicine, law, arts and theology.
 TheapparentopennessoftheprovisionhereisachangefromEymeric,whospecifiestheologians
 or legal experts. The canon cited in both texts actually specifies that the council should consist
 of “foresightful and respectable men who are legal experts.”
540
 The Hammer of Witches 209C–D
 209D
 unmodified form. First, he openly sets out the names of the witnesses or
 of those giving depositions, provided that he binds them all by the oath
 they have given to keep the secret. (He first has to inquire whether they
 are willing to do so, because otherwise the names should by no means
 be set out to them.) Next, he should say how through such-and-such
 and such-and-such method he inquired into the enmity but could find
 none. But he should add that if they agree, one of two things should
 be done. One option is for the council to reach a decision as to who
 among those giving depositions should be debarred as mortal enemies
 and how.211 The other option is that three, four or five men should be
 chosen who have a greater knowledge of the friendship and enmity of
 the denounced person and the witnesses in the village or town and who
 are not present.212 To them only the names of the denounced person
 and the witnesses should be revealed and not the articles of the protocol,
 and their judgment will be relied upon.
 On the basis of the first method, they213 could not very well debar
 the witnesses since it will have been noted that the judge has followed
 his own methods of investigation. On the basis of the second method,
 the judge will relieve himself of all responsibility and will dispel every
 untoward suspicion about himself. He is in fact obliged to follow this
 last method in a situation where the denounced person was arrested in
 a foreign place or land.214
 Let this discussion suffice for the decision about enmity.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 12:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Methods 1–6 of handing over to the person
 accused of heresy a copy of the protocol with the names of the
 witnesses suppressed” (modus tradendi copiam processus delato de heresi
 suppressis deponentium nominibus)]
 211 Eymericspecifiesthatthemembersofthecouncilaretodecidethequestionofenmitythemselves
 only if they are fully familiar with both the denounced person and the witnesses.
 212 Eymeric states that if the board members are not fully familiar with the denounced person and
 witnesses, then they are to choose people from the former’s village: one or two parish priests,
 someone under monastic vow if possible, and a respectable layman who is a zealot for the truth.
 Could the frequent complaint made in the text that ill-informed priests were undermining
 the inquisition into sorcery by denying the reality of sorcery be the cause of the omission of
 Eymeric’s specification?
 213 I.e., the assessors.
 214 The Latin patria is probably a translation of the German Land, which signifies one of the broad
 regions of Germany (e.g, the Rhineland, Thuringia or Saxony) that often formed part of an
 individual’s self-identity, despite the fact that these regions were often politically divided.
Part III 210A–B
 541
 210A
 question fourteen, concerning the things that
 the judge has to consider before setting out the
 list of questions in the prison and torture
 chamber (step nine)215
 WHATthe judgemust doiseasytoexplain. As common justice
 demands, the denounced woman is sentenced to the penalty of blood
 only if convicted by her own confession. On the other hand, she is
 considered to be manifestly caught in heretical depravity on the basis of
 the other two criteria (the evidence or the indication of the deed,216 and
 the lawfulproductionofwitnesses),aswasmentionedaboveinQuestion
 Seven.217 This second kind of denounced woman is the present topic of
 discussion, and in this case, she clearly will be exposed to questioning
 under torture to make her confess her crimes. In order to make this
 question clear, let us set down a situation that took place in Speyer and
 came to the notice of many people.
 When a certain respectable man passed by a certain woman and was
 unwilling to gratify her wish in the sale of a certain item for sale, she
 was outraged and shouted at his back, “Soon you would wish that you
 had agreed.” (Sorceresses have a customary practice of speaking in this
 way or with a similar meaning when they wish to inflict sorcery with 210B
 prior notification.)218 The man was then outraged and not unreasonably
 turned his face around to see in what spirit she had uttered these words.
 All of a sudden, he was stricken with sorcery, his mouth being pulled
 sideways as far as his ears in a horrible disfigurement. He could not pull
 it back, and this disfigurement persisted for a long time. At this point
 the evident deed was laid out before a judge.
 215 At this point, a disordering of the numeration of the questions begins as the result of the
 omission of a chapter that had been planned and an incompletely executed attempt to revise
 the numbering. This section was no doubt to have been based on Eym. (451 2C–452 1D), which
 discusses “the recusal of the inquisitor.” Basically, the section states that the accused may recuse
 the inquisitor if the latter has “really and in fact burdened him by such acts as refusing to grant
 lines of defense when the defendant has requested them or an advocate.” Naturally, it is the
 inquisitor himself who is to decide the validity of the demand,andmostofthesectionisactually
 devoted to explaining how the inquisitor can refuse if he thinks the request unmeritorious (as
 no doubt he was bound to do). There is no way of knowing what caused Institoris to think
 better of including such a section. Perhaps, given the high opinionhehadofthemethod’sability
 to divine the truth, he decided that even the remote possibility of a meritorious recusal was
 excluded, or perhaps he thought it best not to be putting ideas in the heads of the sorceresses,
 whom he thought capable of thwarting the course of secular justice even without recourse to
 such pleas.
 216 Here the “evidence of the deed” and “indications of the deed” are taken to be alternatives, but
 in 207C they were treated as separate indications.
 217 202A–D.
 218 For an elaboration of this idea, see 232B.
542
 The Hammer of Witches 210B–D
 210C
 210D
 Nowthat we have set down this situation, the question is raised as to
 whether she should be considered to be manifestly caught in the Heresy
 of Sorceresses. On the basis of Bernard’s words in the Ordinary Gloss on
 Chapter “Ad abolendam,” as is discussed above in the question already
 cited,219 the response should be that she is, because, as is mentioned in
 that passage, there are three methods by which someone is judged to be
 caught in this way. These three do not have to coincide concomitantly,
 that is, all three at the same time. Rather, each by itself (the evidence of
 the deed, the lawful production of witnesses, and her own confession)
 causes a sorceress to be considered as manifestly caught. An indication
 of the fact differs from evidence of the fact in that while it is inferior
 to such evidence, it is derived from the words and works of sorcerers,
 as is mentioned in the cited Question Seven, and is judged on the basis
 of acts of sorcery that are not inflicted suddenly but over the course of
 time (with preceding threats).
 Let us conclude as follows. Our question now concerns similar
 denouncedsorceressesandthosewhohavefailedintheirlinesofdefense,
 as has already beendiscussed (or didnotfail becausesuchlines ofdefense
 were not allowed since they were not asked for). What, then, should the
 judge do and how should he proceed to questioning in order for her
 to tell the truth in furtherance of the punishment of blood?220 In this
 regard, there are quite a fewpointsthatthejudgeshouldnoteonaccount
 of the vast struggles involved in fighting the sorcery of silence, and these
 points will be recounted one after the other in the following chapters.
 The first is that he should not be readily inclined to examine the
 sorceress under torture but should pay attention to certain signs that
 will be described. The reason why he should not be readily inclined
 is that, unless God’s compulsion through a holy angel co-operates in
 making the Devil’s sorcery cease, her sensitivity is so dulled in the midst
 of her pain that she will be torn apart limb by limb before she is able to
 confess anything of the truth. Nor, however, should torture be neglected
 for this reason, both because they are not all equally entangled in acts of
 sorcery ofthiskind,andbecausesometimestheDevilallowsthesorceress
 to confess her crimes of his own accord without being forced by a holy
 angel. (To understand this point, the discussion above in Part Two221
 219 202CinQ.7.
 220 Note that the torture is not being used to force the accused to make statements of fact that
 could be verified (as normal legal theory would dictate), but to provide the judge, who has
 already decided on the guilt of the accused, with a confession that will allow him to impose the
 death penalty.
 221 99A–C.
Part III 210D–211B
 543
 of the work about the method of doing homage to the Devil should
 be noted.) There are some women who campaign in the Devil’s service
 for some years (six, eight or ten), before they do homage to him, that
 is, by dedicating themselves to them222 in body and soul, while others
 do homage to him immediately when they make the profession of their
 renunciation of the Faith to him in the beginning.
 Why does the Devil accept this requested delay? Clearly, the reason
 is so that in the interval he may test the sorceress as to whether she
 is renouncing the Faith in her mouth alone and not in her heart and
 is doing homage to him in the same way. Since the Devil can know
 the inner feelings of the heart only through conjecture based on outer
 actions, as was discussed in Part One of the work in the difficulty as to
 whether demons can turn humans’ minds to hatred or love,223 quite a
 numberofwomencanalsobefoundwhoareinducedbysomenecessity
 or by poverty to become apostates from the Faith in whole or part
 through other sorceresses and who hope that they will confess or escape.
 Such women he clearly abandons without any compulsion on the part 211A
 of a holy angel. Hence, they readily confess their crimes, while others,
 who adhered to him in their hearts just as they did in their mouths, are
 protected by him to the best of his abilities and become obdurate under
 the influence of the sorcery of silence.
 This discussion makes clear the solution to the question about the
 cause ofthefactthatwhilecertainsorceresses confess easily, others hardly
 do so. Even when the Devil is not warded off by God, he still abandons
 the first group of his own accord, so that through their temporal shame
 and horrible death he may bring to desperation those whom he could
 never entice in their hearts. These facts are also made clear from their
 Sacramental Confessions, in which they claim that they never adhered
 to him voluntarily and that it was under the compulsion of demons that
 they had inflicted their many acts of sorcery.
 There is also another distinction. It is clearly seen that after confessing
 their crimes some women have attempted suicide in order to end their
 own lives with a noose or hanging, and this work is clearly performed
 by the infamous Foe224 to prevent them from receiving Grace from God
 through Sacramental Confession. This is particularly the case with those
 who did not adhere to him voluntarily, but after those who did adhere
 to him voluntarily confess the crimes, he alsomakes an attempt against 211B
 222 I.e., the demons.
 223 52A.
 224 I.e., the Devil.
544
 The Hammer of Witches 211B–C
 them. In this case it is clearly seen that the Devil has to abandon the
 sorceress under compulsion.
 Let us conclude that since an equal or even greater amount of labor
 is presupposed in questioning a sorceress under torture to make her tell
 the truth than in exorcizing someone possessed by a demon, the judge
 ought to be neither willing nor inclined to such acts unless, as has been
 said, it is for the purpose of furthering the penalty of blood. Yet, in
 this case too he should act carefully, first imposing the sentence in the
 following way.
 question fifteen: the method of sentencing the
 denounced woman to questioning under torture,
 how she is to be questioned in this way on the
 first day, and whether the judge can promise to
 spare her life (step ten)225
 NEXT, what the judge must note in the second226 place. The
 step next227 consists of his passing sentence in the following manner.
 211C
 “We, the judge and assessors, noting (or considering) after a careful
 examination of the merits of the proceedings carried out by us against
 you and of everything, find that you, Such-and-Such of Such-and-Such
 place of Such-and-Such diocese, are inconsistent in your confessions
 in that you uttered such-and-such threats but without the intention of
 causing harm,228 yet there nonetheless are various indications of the deed
 that are sufficient for you to be exposed to questioning under torture
 so that the truth will be had from your mouth and you will no longer
 offend the ears of the judges. Hence, as an interlocutory229 decision,
 we make the declaration, judgment and sentence on the present day
 at such-and-such an hour that you should be subjected to questioning
 under torture. Sentence was passed” and so on.
 Second, this step consists of his still not being eager to question under
 torture, as has already been discussed.230 Rather, with the denounced
 person placed in a form of imprisonment that is penal and no longer for
 225 For the misnumbering of this question, see n. 215.
 226 Continuing the series of things that the judge should take into account, as laid out in 210C.
 227 Conceivably this should be emended to read “first” on the basis of the subsequent divisions of
 this step, but there is no readily apparent reason to explain such a mistake here.
 228 It is hard to see how these words, which were added to the source material in Eymeric, are an
 example of being varying in confession unless one denies the existence of idle threats.
 229 On the meaning of this expression, see below, 220A–B.
 230 210C–211B.
Part III 211C–212A
 545
 detention as was the case before, and with his friends called in, the judge
 should point out to them that the denounced person could escape the
 penalty and perhaps not be executed (though he would be punished in
 some other way), if he tells the truth, and the judge should urge them
 to agree to advise the denounced person to do so. For constant reflec
tion amidst the misfortune of imprisonment and the repeated advice of
 upright men create an inclination to tell the truth, and it has been our
 experience that sorceresses were so emboldened by urgings of this kind 211D
 that as a sign of defiance they spat upon the ground as if in the face of
 the Devil and said, “Get out, accursed Devil! I will do what is just,” and
 then confessed their crimes.
 If, after a suitable period of time, fittingly extended, has been given
 to the denounced person and he has been advised repeatedly, the judge
 believes in good faith that the denounced person is denying the truth,
 they231 should question him with moderate torture, that is, without
 shedding blood, knowing that questioning under torture is misleading
 and quite often, as has been discussed, ineffective.
 The method of beginning is as follows. When the assistants have
 gotten themselves ready, they should strip him (or if it is a woman,
 she should, before being brought to the penal prison, be stripped
 by respectable women of good reputation). The reason for this is to
 remove232 any device for sorcery that may have been sewn into his cloth
ing. (On the instruction of demons, they often carry out this practice
 with the limbs of a child not yet baptized in order that the children
 should be deprived of the Beatific Vision.)233 When the implements are
 ready, the judge should, in his own person and through other goodmen 212A
 who are zealots for the Faith, advise the person to be questioned under
 torture to confess the truth freely. If he is unwilling, the judge should
 order the assistants to tie him to the strappado234 or fasten him to other
 implements. They should obey without joy, as if they are upset.235 After
wards, he should be released at the request of certain people,236 dragged
 231 In Eymeric, this plural refers to the “bishop and inquisitor” who are the agents in this procedure
 and have been replaced by the “judge” here.
 232 This word was inadvertently omitted from this clumsy addition to the original text of Eymeric,
 but the sense is clear enough.
 233 I.e., the sight of God; for the concept, see 138A and 97C.
 234 This is the standard method for extracting confession.
 235 Executioners (who also carried out the torture in examinations) were considered disreputable,
 and presumably it was felt necessary to enjoin them not to ruin the solemnity of the occasion
 with any undue expressions of pleasure in their duties.
 236 The zealots for the faith in attendance?
546
 The Hammer of Witches 212A–B
 to the side, and again advised. In this advice, he should be informed that
 he will not be executed.
 At this point the question is raised whether in a situation where
 a denounced person of bad reputation has been legally convicted by
 witnesses and the indications of the deed, and all that is lacking is that
 the person should confess the crime with his own mouth, it is legal for
 the judge to promise to save his life, even though if he confesses, the
 person will be punished with execution. The response is that different
 pronouncements are given by different people.
 212B
 Some pronounce that if the denounced woman has a very bad rep
utation and is violently suspected on the basis of indications of the
 deed, and even if she could cause great harm as the mistress237 of other
 sorceresses, she could even in that case be guaranteed her life under
 the following circumstances. She should be sentenced to life imprison
ment on bread and water, provided that she reveals other sorceresses
 by certain and very true signs. This penance in prison should not be
 made known to her in the way that is set down here, and the only
 thing that should be guaranteed to her is the preservation of her life. A
 woman to be punished with some sort of penance should be punished
 with banishment or something else.238 Without a doubt, in the case of
 notorious sorceresses, especially those who deal in medicines involving
 sorcery and use superstitious actions to heal those affected by sorcery,
 they ought to be saved in such a way that they will either help those
 affected by sorcery or betray sorceresses. Even then, because the Devil is
 a liar, no reliance should be placed on their betrayals unless at the same
 time other indications of the fact in conjunction with witnesses also
 coincide.
 Others hold a view to the same effect. In the situation where she has
 been sent to prison, the promise should be kept temporarily but after a
 period of time she should be burned to ashes.
 A third group consists of those who say that the judge can with
 impunity promise to spare her life but later relieve himself of the task of
 passing sentence and substitute another in his place.239
 Amongthesemethods,thefirst seems beneficial because of the curing
 of those affected by sorcery. Nonetheless, it is not lawful to break acts
 237 I.e., head of the sect.
 238 It was a common practice that suspects (including suspected sorcerers) about whom there was
 insufficient evidence to warrant more drastic measures were driven out of town and told not to
 return (often first suffering flogging or some other comparatively minor corporal punishment).
 239 For a different method of lying, see 216D.
Part III 212B–D
 547
 of sorcery through acts of sorcery (unlawful works), although, as was
 explained in the first, introductory question240 of the present Part Three,
 it is the view of very many that it is lawful to break acts of sorcery 212C
 through vain and superstitious acts. Still, in these matters it is experience
 and practice in the differing circumstances of various cases rather than
 someone else’s art (training) that instructs a judge, and therefore this is
 left up to the judge. As experience has many times taught, it is certain
 that many people would confess the truth but are held back by the fear
 of death.241
 Third, this step consists of the assistants carrying out the sentence that
 has been passed if neither threats nor these promises persuade him to
 confess the truth, and in his being questioned under torture by the usual
 methods and not by novel or new-fangled ones,242 lightly or strongly
 according to the dictates of the malefactor’s crime. When he is being
 questioned under torture, he should be asked about certain articles in
 connection with which he is being tortured. This should be done often
 and repeatedly, starting with the lesser charges because he will sooner
 grant the lesser than the greater ones.
 While this is being done, the notary should write the entirety
 in the protocol, including how he is being questioned under
 torture, the questions about which he is being asked, and how he
 answers.
 Note that if he confesses under torture, he should afterwards be
 brought to a different place, so that he will confess anew and will not
 merely have confessed under the force of the torture.243
 Fourth, the step consists of other kinds of torture devices being laid 212D
 out before him if the person questioned under torture is unwilling to
 make an appropriate confession, and in his being told that he will have
 to endure themif hedoesnotconfess the truth. If even this cannot bring
 him to feel terror or tell the truth, then sentence to a second or third
 day of questioning under torture will be passed in his presence in the
 following manner (as a continuation and not a repetition of the torture,
 240 203D.
 241 Another way to look at it is that many confessed to false accusations in the attempt to avoid
 torture and execution.
 242 It was thought that coming up with new methods of torture was indicative of an unseemly
 pleasure in the activity.
 243 Thelegal mindswhoworkedoutthetheoryfortheuseoftorturebelievedthatifsomeonemade
 a second confession without being tortured, this showed the veracity of the first confession,
 despite the fact that the accused knew full well that if he retracted the confession, he would
 simply be tortured again.
548
 The Hammer of Witches 212D–213A
 since it cannot be repeated unless new indications come to light).244
 “We, the aforementioned judge (as above), assign to you such-and-such
 a day for the continuation of the questioning under torture, so that the
 truth should come from your own mouth.” The whole should be put
 into the protocol by the notary.
 213A
 Before the time that has been assigned, the judge will, in his own
 person and through other upright men, advise the denounced person to
 confess the truth in the manner mentioned above,245 with a guarantee
 of his life, if this seems expedient. The judge should also make sure that
 guards will stay with her before that time, so that she will not be left
 alone, since she will be visited by a demon to make her kill herself, if
 and to the extent that the Devil intends to abandon her or is compelled
 to do so by God. For the Devil knows how to do this much better than
 anyone can reveal in writing.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 15(1):
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 3 of ending the process in a case involving
 the Faith, through torture” (de tertio modo terminandi processum in
 causa fidei per tormenta)]
 question fifteen, concerning the continuation
 of the torture and the stratagems and signs
 by which the judge can recognize a sorceress,
 and how he ought to forearm himself against
 their acts of sorcery, and how they should be
 shaved, and the situation where they have hidden
 devices for sorcery, along with various
 explanations of how to block the sorcery of
 silence (step eleven)246
 WHATthenremains forthejudgetodowithreferencetocon
tinuing the torture? It should first be noted that just as there is no single
 medicine for all diseases but rather separate and specific medicines for
 244 A person could be tortured only once on the basis of a given set of evidence, and only the
 discovery of new evidence would justify a “repetition” of the torture, but it was permissible to
 “continue” the “same” instance of torture over the course of several days. Thus, the distinction
 between “continuing” and “repeating” torture was more theoretical than substantive.
 245 211C–D.
 246 For the misnumbering of this question, see n. 215.
Part III 213A–C
 549
 separate and specific diseases, no single method of questioning, investi
gating and examining with reference to the articles should be followed
 for all heretics or all those denounced for heresy, and instead a different
 method of examining that varies according to the reality of the sects
 and persons should be followed. Therefore, like a physician who strives 213B
 to cut out gangrenous limbs and separate the mangy sheep247 from
 the healthy, the prudent judge can now surmise that the denounced
 woman is infected with the sorcery of silence, but no single, unfail
ing rule or method can be described for wrenching out this silence.
 Indeed, it would not be safe to give one, because if that method became
 a commonpractice and general rule, then, when the sons of darkness248
 foresaw it, they could more easily avoid it as a trap for their damnation
 or take precautions. The prudent and diligent judge should therefore
 develop an opportune method of questioning from the answers of the
 witnesses or their attestations or from the procedures that experience
 has otherwise taught him or from the ones that the keenness of his own
 intelligence has discovered, while making use of the stratagems set out
 below.
 If the judge’s aim is to investigate whether she is enveloped in the
 sorcery of silence, he should note whether she can cry when standing
 in his presence or being exposed to torture. The ancient accounts of
 trustworthy men and the teaching of our own experience have demon
strated that this is the most certain sign, so that even if she is urged and
 compelled with conjurations to cry, if she is a sorceress she does not 213C
 have this ability (to shed tears).249 To be sure, she will emit plaintive
 sounds and attempt to dab her cheeks and eyes with spit as if she were
 crying, and those present should pay close attention to this.250
 The following or a similar method of conjuring her to genuine tears
 if she is innocent and of restraining false tears can be followed by the
 judge (or priest) in the sentence. Putting a hand over the head of the
 denounced man (woman), he says, “I conjure you by the loving tears
 247 This reference to sheep has been added to the medical imagery borrowed from Eymeric, but
 no corresponding reference to shepherds is made.
 248 I.e., heretics. The phrase is adapted from 1 Thess. 5:5 (“You all are sons of light and sons of
 the day. We are not [ones] of night or of darkness”). (Note that this chapter is overtly cited in
 218C.)
 249 The letter from the burgermasters and city council of Ravensburg directly attested that the
 inquisitor who visited them (almost certainly Institoris) informed them of the “remarkable fact”
 that “if one questions (tortures) them and they don’t cry, they are such witches or sorceresses.”
 250 Hence,whentheinquisitorknowsthattheaccusedisguiltybutshecriescontrarytoexpectations
 when she is being tortured to extract a confession, such tears can be ascribed to malfeasance on
 her part.
550
 The Hammer of Witches 213C–D
 shed on the Cross for the salvation of this world by Our Savior, the
 Lord Jesus Christ, and by the most passionate tears of His mother, the
 Most Glorious Virgin Mary, which were sprinkled over His wounds at
 eventide, and by all the tears shed here in this world by all the Saints
 and the Elect of God, from whose eyes He has now wiped every tear,
 that you should shed tears to the extent that you are innocent, but not
 at all if you are guilty. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of
 the Holy Ghost.” (Sign of the Cross.) “Amen.”
 213D
 Experience has taught that the more they were conjured, the less they
 could cry, though they would vigorously goad themselves to cry and
 dampen their cheeks with spit. It is, however, possible that afterwards,
 in the absence of the judge and outside of the place and time for torture,
 they can cry in front of the guards.251
 If there is a question about the reason for the impediment to crying in
 the case of sorceresses, it can be said that in the case of the penitent the
 GraceofTearsisascribedtospecificgifts,Bernardassertingthatahumble
 tear can reach heaven and conquer the Unconquerable One,252 and
 therefore, no one should doubt that this is known to be very displeasing
 to the Enemy of Salvation.253 Hence, no one doubts that he expends
 the greatest effort to hinder these women in order to produce a final
 impenitence instead.
 What if with God’s permission it happens that a sorceress does cry
 through the Devil’s cunning, since women are said to be characterized
 by crying, spinning and deceiving?254 It can be responded that since the
 judgments of God are secret, if she could not otherwise be convicted
 by legal witnesses in a situation involving some indications of the deed,
 so that she would not even be seriously or violently suspected, then she
 wouldclearly have to beabsolved. Inlight of the light suspicion to which
 she would then be subject because of the bad reputation about which
 the witnesses gave depositions, she would have to abjure the Heresy of
 Sorceresses, as will be discussed on the topic of MethodTwo255 ofpassing
 sentence.
 251 While an inquisitor might be able to explain away to his own satisfaction the apparent tears
 shed by the accused in the torture chamber, it would be more difficult to convince guards and
 others who saw her crying at other times. Hence, the “fix” of ascribing the sorceress’s inability
 to cry to the torture chamber conveniently restricts the amount of apparent crying that needs
 explanation.
 252 Ultimate source unknown.
 253 I.e., the Devil.
 254 A common medieval aphorism.
 255 Q. 21 (225D–227B).
Part III 213D–214B
 551
 The second precaution, which should not only be followed after the
 f
 irst one but should be observed at all times by the judge and all the 214A
 assessors, is that they should not allow themselves to be touched by
 her physically, especially on the naked wrist. Rather, they should by
 all means carry with them salt that was exorcized on a Sunday and
 a Blessed Palm and Blessed Plants. These objects, along with Blessed
 Wax that is wrapped up and worn on the neck at the same time, as
 was explained above256 in Part Two of the work in the section on the
 remedies for illnesses and defects caused by sorcery, are wondrously
 effective at keeping a person safe. This statement is based not only on
 the testimony of sorceresses but also on the usage and custom of the
 Church, which practices such exorcisms and blessings for this purpose,
 as is made clear in the exorcisms of sorceresses, in which the purpose of
 the words is said to be “to put to flight all the power of the Foe” and so
 on.
 A discussion of the touching of the wrist or limbs would not seem
 to be out of place. With God’s permission, they can, especially at the
 time when they are being exposed to questioning under torture, affect
 people with sorcery by the working of the Devil, sometimes through
 touch, sometimesthroughsightorthehearingofwordsutteredbythem.
 Through the teaching of experience, we know of certain sorceresses kept
 under detention in castles who kept importuning the castellans to allow
 them, upon the arrival of the judge or of the other authority in charge 214B
 of them, just to direct their first glance at the judge before they were
 seen by him or the others. From this glance they achieved the result
 that this judge or the others (his assessors) were so transformed in the
 loyalties of their hearts that they lost whatever outrage, if any, they had
 had. They would not presume to harass the sorceresses in any way, but
 let them go free. This is the true testimony of a man who has knowledge
 from experience,257 and would that they were not able to bring about
 such things! Judges should not undervalue these warnings and remedies,
 since underestimating the importance of such matters after such great
 warnings will result in their eternal damnation according to the Savior’s
 statement: “If I had not found258 and spoken to them, they would have
 no sin. Now, however, they have no excuse for the sin” [John 15:22]. The
 judge should therefore protect himself with the foregoing suggestions
 according to the Church’s ordinance.
 256 87D–88D.
 257 Presumably Institoris.
 258 Regular text: “come”
552
 The Hammer of Witches 214B–D
 214C
 214D
 If it is convenient to dothis, she shouldbebroughtinbackwards,with
 her back turned towards the judges and assessors (not merely in this step
 but in all the preceding and following ones). When he protects himself
 with the Sign of the Cross and assails her in manly fashion, all strength
 of the Ancient Serpent259 will be broken with the help of God.No one
 should think bringing her in backwards is superstitious, since, as has
 often been mentioned, the canonists permit the breaking and hindering
 of greater acts of sorcery, saying that it is always lawful to smash vanities
 with vanities.
 Thethird precaution to be taken in the present Step Eleven is that the
 hair should be shaved from every part of the body.260 The reasoning is
 the sameasinthestrippingoffoftheclothingabove.261 Forthesorceryof
 silence they sometimes keep superstitious amulets consisting of certain
 objects in their clothing or in the hair of the body or sometimes in the
 most secret places, which cannot be named.
 If in objection it is asked whether the Devil could not harden the
 mind of the sorceress even without such amulets, so that she would
 be unwilling to confess her crimes, just as certain other criminals are
 frequently found to be, despite the greatest tortures of every kind, even
 though they have been convicted through indications of the deed or
 through witnesses, the response is that it is clearly true that the demon
 is able to bring about such silence without any objects at all, but he
 uses such objects in order to cause the damnation of their souls and to
 increase the insult to God.
 In order to explain this more clearly, a certain sorceress in the town
 of Hagenau, who was mentioned in Part Two262 of the work, knew how
 to bring about the following variety of the sorcery of silence. A newborn
 male baby that was not yet baptized and in addition was a firstborn was
 killed, roasted in an oven, burned up with other objects which it is not a
 good idea to mention, and reduced to ashes. If any sorceress or criminal
 carried any of this stuff with him, he would not confess his crimes in
 any way at all. In this case, it is clear that if one hundred thousand
 children were used, they could never achieve such silence as a result
 259 I.e., the Devil.
 260 The letter from the burgermasters and city council of Ravensburg directly attests that the
 inquisitor who visited them (almost certainly Institoris) directed that they shave the suspects.
 TheMemorandum(475)andtheNurembergHandbook(8v)agreewith the statement here about
 shaving the entire body, but below this is emphatically rejected on the grounds that shaving the
 genitalia is considered shameful in Germany (215B–C).
 261 211D.
 262 99B–C.
Part III 214D–215A
 553
 of natural tendency. Rather, as is clear to anyone with intelligence, the
 Devil makes use of these practices to damn their souls and offend God’s
 majesty.
 As for the further allegation that it is often criminals and not sorcerers
 whokeepsuchmeansofsilenceonthem,itshouldbesaidthatthissilence
 can result from three causes. The first is a hardness of the mind that is in
 somewaynatural. While certain people are so soft in the heart or crazed,
 that underlighttorturetheygrantanythingatall,evenanylies,othersare
 so hard that however muchtheymaybetormented,thetruthcannotbe 215A
 got fromthem.Thisisespecially true of those whohavebeenquestioned
 under torture on a different occasion, since their arms quickly bend in
 the waythattheyarepulled.263 Thesecondisthatthesilenceresultsfrom
 a device for sorcery kept onthem,eitherintheirclothing orinthehairof
 the body, as has been said. The third is that sometimes when they do not
 keepontheirpersondevicesforsorcerythataresewninorattached,they
 are still affected with sorcery byothersorceresses, howeverdistant.Injust
 this way, a certain sorceress in Innsbruck used to boast that when she had
 just a thread from the clothing of someone in detention, she could bring
 it about that however much he was tortured, even to the point of death,
 he would confess nothing.264 Hence, the response to the objection is
 obvious.
 Whatcircumstance is said to have happened in the diocese of Regens
burg?265 When certain heretics were convicted by their own confessions
 and were sentenced to death not merely as impenitents but as defenders
 of that breach of the Faith, it happened that they remained unharmed
 in the flames. When they were eventually sentenced to drowning, this
 too was of noavail. Everyone was also amazed at their faith. When some
 263 Presumably, what is meant is that having previously been loosened, the joints now offer less
 resistance when pulled.
 264 InadepositiongivenonOctober8,1485,duringInstitoris’sinquisitioninInnsbruck,Margaretha
 Gr¨ unepachin stated that one of the suspects, Barbara Hufeysen, had told her that she could get
 any thief or robber out of jail and ensure that he could make no confession, so long as she had
 four threads from the criminal’s clothing, even if he had worn it only once. A statement is also
 attributed to an unknown protocol drawn up by a vicar that Hufeysen told someone that she
 could free her husband from arrest if she had three threads from his clothing; her husband’s
 statement is also said to agree with this. There is no direct indication in the surviving protocol
 that the threads would be used to ensure silence during torture, but that is presumably the
 circumstance envisaged for the forestalled confession.
 265 Thisisamuchearlierliterarystorythathasbeenascribedbyrumorto(apparentlycontemporary)
 Regensburg. At any rate, Caesarius of Heisterbach relates the story with much more detail
 (Dialogue of Miracles 5.18), setting it in the French city of Besanc¸on on the authority of an aged
 fellow-monk who claimed to have been there at the time of the events (presumably in his youth
 in the mid to late twelfth century).
215B
 554
 The Hammer of Witches 215A–C
 people endeavored to defend it as the proper faith, the bishop became
 worried and enjoined a three-day fast on his flock. When this was
 devoutly fulfilled, it came to the knowledge of a certain person that in a
 particular part of the body (under onearm),theyhadadeviceforsorcery
 sewn between the skin and flesh. When this was found and removed,
 they were immediately consumed by the fire. It is the view of others that
 a certain nigromancer betrayed the secret after consulting a demon who
 told it to him.266 However this was done, it is probable that the Devil
 revealed this information under the compulsion of God’s power, since
 the Devil is always scheming to overturn the Faith.
 Similarly, when such a circumstance happens to a judge, what he
 would have to do can be gathered (if, that is, he resorts to the protection
 of God). In a situation where neither changing their clothes nor shaving
 their hair can bring them to confess the truth under torture, this sort of
 demonic force should be driven off from the sorceress through the fasts
 and prayers of devout persons.
 215C
 In the regions of Germany, this sort of shaving, especially around
 the secret places, is considered very degrading, and for this reason we
 inquisitors267 also make no use of it. Rather, we shave the hair on the
 head, and then we put a drop of Blessed Wax in a chalice or cup of
 Holy Water and give it to them to drink three times on an empty
 stomach in the name of the Most Holy Trinity. By the Grace of God we
 have removed the sorcery of silence from many in this way.268 In other
 kingdoms, however, inquisitors order this shaving to be carried out over
 the entire body. The Inquisitor of Como269 in fact told us that last year,
 which was 1485, he ordered forty-one sorceresses to be burned to ashes
 after the hair was shaven off over their entire bodies. This was in the
 district and county of Bormio (Wurmser Bad in the vernacular) within
 the territory of the dominion of the Archduke of Austria in the direction
 of Milan.
 266 According to Caesarius, when the bishop became worried about his inability to burn the
 heretics (and the bad effect this had on the morale of the faithful), he asked a priest who
 was an old hand at nigromancy to compel the Devil to reveal the heretics’ secret. The author
 here (Institoris) is uncomfortable with this detail because it derives from the old conception
 of learned nigromancy by which someone knowledgeable in that art could force the demonic
 powers to do his bidding, an idea that did not at all fit in with the satanic conception of sorcery
 as a heretical sect dominated by Satan himself.
 267 Apparently German inquisitors, which presumably includes Institoris.
 268 Institoris outlines his own procedure at length in Nuremberg Handbook 2.7 (8v), though there
 he does advise shaving the entire body “above and below,” just as is the case in 214C. He also
 specifies (9r) that the wax should be given for drinking in water that had been blessed on the
 Easter vigil.
 269 See 64A.
Part III 215C–216A
 555
 If it is asked whether at a time of necessity, when the sorcery could not
 be removed through any of the suitable remedies in the ways described
 above, it would be lawful, for the removal of such sorcery, to consult
 female diviners, who cure and break spells of sorcery, the response is
 that whatever may be the case with the business that took place in
 Regensburg, we urge in the name of the Lord that in no case, however
 pressing, should female diviners be consulted for the common good
 (because of the great insult to God’s majesty), since we havebeengranted
 so many other remedies by which we will certainly be able to achieve
 our goal, either in the proper form of a prayer or in the equivalent, so 215D
 that either the complete truth will be learned from her mouth, so that
 she may be burned to ashes, or God will get rid of her by granting some
 other death in her case.270
 These remedies have been set out by us, so that a person should first
 do what he can by his own diligence and the use of his own resources,
 pressing onwiththemethodsdiscussedabove,especiallyoncertaindays,
 as will soon be explained271 in the following question (“You will be filled
 for every good work” 2 Cor. 9[:8]). Second, if he fails, he should appeal
 for advice to other people, who would perhaps share with him a remedy
 that he had not thought of, since there are various methods of breaking
 spells of sorcery. Third, if the foregoing methods fail, he should appeal to
 devout persons in accordance with the passage in Ecclesiasticus 37[:15]:
 “Youshouldconstantlyattendtoanysaintlypersonwhomyourecognize
 aspracticingthefearofGod.”Also,theSaintsintheHeavenlyHomeland
 should be summoned by them.272 If all these suggestions fail, the judge
 andtheentirecongregationshouldimmediatelyappealtoGodwithfasts
 and prayers that this sorcery be ended by His piety, just as Jehoshaphat
 did (“When we do not know what we ought to do, all that we have left 216A
 is to turn our eyes to You” [2 Chron. 20:12]).273 Without a doubt God
 will not fail in our times of need. Hence, Augustine says (this is quoted
 in 26,Q.7,“Non observabitis”), “Whoever practices or heeds or agrees
 to these and any acts of divination or fates or auguries at all, or believes
 in those who practice them and similar people,” that is, by attending
 their work, “or goes to their houses or brings them into his own or
 consults them, should know that he has defrauded the Christian Faith
 270 Notethat at this point in the proceedings, the only conclusion foreseen for the accused is death.
 271 216B.
 272 This sentence has been clumsily adapted from the original text of Nider’s Praeceptorium, and it
 should read “by him.” Also, this is the fourth in Nider’s original list of five things that should
 be done.
 273 The fifth item in Nider’s list.
556
 The Hammer of Witches 216A–B
 and Baptism, and that as a pagan, apostate and enemy of God he forever
 incurs the grievous anger of God, unless he is corrected through the
 Church’s penance and is reconciled to God.” The judge would therefore
 not fail if in accordance with the foregoing he always makes use of the
 lawful remedies and the final stratagems written below.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 15(2):
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Practices to be observed by inquisitors in the
 examination of heretics” (observanda ab inquisitoribus in examina
tione hereticorum)
 Nider, Praec. 1.9]
 question sixteen: the time and method two of
 questioning (step twelve), concerning the final
 stratagems to be observed by the judge274
 216B
 A few things should274 be noted about the foregoing. The first
 is that they should be questioned on more holy days and during the
 rites of the Mass. In this way, the congregation may also be urged to
 pray for God’s help in general (no specification should be made except
 that the Saints should be invoked against all harassment on the part of
 demons). The second are the notes made above about Blessed Salt and
 other things in combination with writing down on a sheet of paper the
 Seven Words275 uttered by Christ on the Cross. These should be bound
 up together and attached to her neck, and Blessed Wax the length of
 Christ’s body276 (if such a length can be conveniently obtained) should
 be bound to her naked body. Experience has shown that the sorceresses
 are disturbed in a wondrous way by these things and can barely keep
 them on, especially Relics of the Saints.
 After these preparations have been made and the Holy Water offered
 for drinking, she should again be made ready for the questioning under
 torture, being constantly urged as before. When she is raised from the
 ground (if being tortured in this way),277 the judge should read (or
 have read) the statements of the witnesses with the names supplied,278
 speaking as follows. “Look, you are convicted by witnesses.” If the
 274 For the misnumbering of this question, see n. 215.
 275 See Pt. ii n. 596.
 276 See Pt. ii n. 608.
 277 See n. 234.
 278 Given the care with which the names have hitherto been concealed, it seems surprising that
 so little is made of the change of procedure, but the fact that the text immediately goes on to
Part III 216C–D
 557
 witnesses wish to confront her face to face, then the judge would ques- 216C
 tion her as to whether she would be willing to confess if the witnesses
 are brought before her. If she agrees, the witnesses would have to be
 brought in and put in her presence, in case she would confess something
 through shame or embarrassment. Finally, if he sees that she is not will
ing to reveal her crimes, he will question her as to whether she is willing
 to undergo the judgment by glowing iron to establish her innocence.
 They all are eager for this, knowing that they will be kept from harm by
 demons, and they are thereby recognized to be truly sorceresses.279 The
 judge will reply by asking what rashness could lead her to subject herself
 to such dangers. All this should be written down. (It will be explained
 below280 that that judgment by glowing iron should not be granted to
 them.)
 Thejudge should also note that they have often confessed on Fridays,
 particularly until the ringing of the bells for the Last Breath of Our
 Savior.281
 We should proceed to the final situation, that is, one of complete
 denial on her part. If she persists in this denial, the judge will release
 her (he should still make use of the following stratagems) and take her
 from the penal prison to another (well fortified) one for detention. He 216D
 should, however, ensure by every means that she is not handed over to
 pledges or sureties or otherwise released through a grant of bail, because
 when they are given to a surety, the truth is never had from them, and
 in fact they are made worse.282
 What he should first see to is that she should be treated humanely in
 terms of food and drink, and that in the meanwhile respectable people
 whoarenotsuspectshouldentertospeaktoherfrequentlyaboutvarious
 irrelevant matters andeventuallyadviseherinconfidencethatsheshould
 confess the truth, promising that the judge will grant her grace283 and
 that they are willing to act as intermediaries. To this end, the judge will
 enter and promise to grant grace, understanding “to himself” or “to the
 allow the possibility of directly confronting the accused with the witnesses indicates that it is
 in fact intended that the witnesses are now to be identified.
 279 219C–D.
 280 Q. 17 (218A–219D).
 281 With a false equation of the ancient method of reckoning the daylight hours (twelve hours of
 variable length with the hour after dawn counted as the first) with the fixed hours of 6 a.m.
 to 6 p.m. as counted by a clock, it was thought, on the basis of Luke 23:44 (“And it was now
 [at the time of the crucifixion] about the sixth hour, and a darkness came over the whole land
 until the ninth hour”), that the death took place at 3 o’clock in the afternoon.
 282 Presumably, this statement reflects Institoris’s experience with the deleterious effects of releasing
 suspects from his clutches.
 283 I.e., a pardon.
558
 The Hammer of Witches 216D–217B
 state,” for whose preservation everything that is being done is a kind of
 grace.284
 217A
 217B
 If he promises her her life (these matters were treated above in Ques
tion Fourteen on the topic of the three methods),285 the details should
 be written down by the notary, along with the verbal formula and the
 spirit in which the mercy was promised. If the denounced woman does
 in fact ask for mercy in this way and reveal deeds, general words should
 be spoken to the effect that she will get more than she asks for, the
 purpose of this being to make her speak with greater confidence.
 Thesecondprecaution in this step is that if she is altogether unwilling
 to reveal the truth, then if her accomplices, who have been examined
 withoutherknowledge,aswasdiscussedabove,286 havegivendepositions
 of such a kind that she could be convicted with them, the judge should
 set out these statements and investigate the details carefully. Similarly, if
 any devices or ointments or boxes were found in the house, these should
 be shown to her. She should be asked the purpose for which she used
 them, and so on.
 The third stratagem is that if she still persists in her obstinacy, he
 should take the companions who have been examined and given depo
sitions against and not for her, or if he does not have any, he should find
 some trustworthy person whom he knows to be not unwelcome to the
 detained womanbutratherafriendorabettor.Thispersonwillenterher
 cell one evening and draw out the conversation. Eventually, the person
 should, if not one of the accomplices, pretend that it has got too late to
 leave and stay with her in the cell, and they should talk together during
 the night. If the person is one of the accomplices, then they will eat and
 drink together, discussing the crimes they have committed. In this case,
 an order should be given for spies to stand outside the cell in a suitable
 place in order to overhear them and collect their words. If necessary, a
 scribe should accompany them.
 The fourth stratagem is that if she then begins to tell the truth, the
 judge should not under any circumstance stop taking her confession,
 even in the middle of the night, but should continue as far as possible. If
 it is during the day, he should not care if he puts off lunch or dinner, but
 should press on until she has told the truth, at least in terms of the main
 284 This form of giving a false promise is different from the two versions given in 212B. And to
 think that Satan is called the “contriver of a thousand deceits”!
 285 212A–C. This cross reference gives the correct (reduced) numbering for the chapter, in light
 of the decision to abandon the originally planned eighth question, rather than the incorrect
 number that appears in the text (and in another cross reference in 220D).
 286 203B.
Part III 217B–D
 559
 accusations. It has frequently been found that when the proceedings
 are broken off or interrupted, they return to their vomit, and adopting
 worse counsel they do not disclose the truth that they had begun to
 reveal.
 The judge should also note that after her confession to the injuries
 inflicted on humans or domestic animals, he should ask for how many
 years she had the incubus demon, and how long ago she renounced the
 Faith, because they never confess about these matters unless they have
 f
 irst confessed the others, and so they should certainly be questioned
 about them at the end.287
 The fifth precaution is that if all the foregoing suggestions fail, then
 if possible, she should be taken to some castle and put in detention 217C
 there for a few days. The castellan should then pretend that he will
 be traveling far away. In the meanwhile, some close acquaintances or
 respectable women should visit her and promise her that they288 are by
 all means willing to let her go free, provided that she informs them289
 about certain experimenta. The judge should note that they have very
 often confessed and been convicted in this way.
 Veryrecently,inthedioceseofStrasburginthecastleofK¨ onigsheim290
 near the city of Schlettstadt no torturing and questioning could bring
 a sorceress in detention to confess her crimes. Eventually, the method
 mentioned above was followed by the castellan (he was present but the
 sorceress thought that he was away). Three close acquaintances came in
 and promised that she would be given her freedom, provided that she
 informedthemaboutcertainexperimenta.Sheatfirstrefused,explaining
 that they were dealing with her in a deceitful manner, but eventually,
 when she asked what they wished to be informed of, one mentioned
 stirring up a hailstorm, another sexual acts, and in the end, she was 217D
 willing to inform them about the hailstorm. When a dish full of water
 was brought to her, the sorceress told him to set the water in motion a
 little with a finger. After she uttered certain words, suddenly in the place
 mentionedbythespy(awoodadjacenttothecastle)agreater downpour
 of hail than had been seen for many years took place.
 287 The logical explanation of this is that such “renunciations of the faith” are figments of the
 inquisitorial imagination that are extracted from the accused only after they have already been
 forced by the torture to admit to whatever falsehood the inquisitor has already decided they
 committed. Note in particular how leading the suggested questions are.
 288 Presumably, the authorities.
 289 Both the male and the female forms of the pronoun are used, so the friends are meant.
 290 No present site near Schlettstadt is known by this name. Perhaps what is meant is the now
 famous castle at (High) K¨ onigsburg.
560
 The Hammer of Witches 217D–218A
 It remains to be explained, with reference to the situation where
 everything fails, or one where she confesses the crimes, what more the
 judge shoulddobymeansofhissentencetofinishthewholeproceeding,
 and with this topic the last part of the work will be completed.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 16:
 Eymeric, Dir.,Pt. 3 “Inquisitors’ stratagems against heretics’ quibbles
 and deceits” (cautele inquisitorum contra hereticorum cauillationes
 et fraudes)]
 Part Three of this last part of the work follows: how these proceedings
 involving the Faith are to be brought to a proper end by means of the
 definitive sentence
 Now that by thegraceofGodthemeansofrecognizing the pecu
liarities that relate to the Heresy of Sorceresses have been explained
 along with the manner in which proceedings involving the Faith should
 be started and continued against the sorceress, it remains to discuss how
 such proceedings should be brought to a proper end through passing
 the due sentence.
 218A
 At this point, it should first be noted that as was discussed in the
 beginning of this last part,291 in comparison to the other, straightforward
 formsofheresy,thisonecanbecharacterizedasnothavingapureessence
 but being a mixture of ecclesiastical and civil crime, as is self-evident.
 Therefore,intreatingthemethodsofpassingsentence,theremustfirstbe
 a treatment of a certain sentence to which sorceresses commonly appeal
 and which a secular judge can deal with by himself without requesting
 the involvement of the ordinary. Second is a treatment of the matters
 with which he cannot deal without the ordinary. Third, in this way it
 will be explained how ordinaries can relieve themselves of the business.
 question seventeen: the vulgar form of
 purgation, and especially the examination by
 glowing iron, to which sorceresses appeal
 [TT] WHETHER a sorceress should be purged in a tempt
ing292 manner by means of the vulgar form of purgation mentioned in
 3,Q.4,“Consuluisti” and “Monomachiam,” and whether she should be
 291 193C.
 292 I.e., by “tempting” God (see next note).
Part III 218A–B
 561
 obliged or allowed bythesecular judgetoundergothetrial293 by glowing
 iron if she appeals to it.294
 [AG 1] The answer seems to be that she should. Like the duel, the
 judgment by touching glowing iron or by drinking boiling water is
 ordained for the preservation of the defendant’s own life in a criminal
 case or for the preservation of his property in a civil one. The duel is 218B
 lawful in certain situations according to St. Thomas in Secunda Secunde,
 Q. 95, at the end of the last article [Summa 2/2.95.8.Ra3]. There he says
 that the duel can be lawful in a situation where it resembles the common
 methodofcasting lots,295 and therefore the trial by glowing iron can also
 be lawful in a certain situation.296
 [AG 2] Also, it was practiced by many rulers of a saintly way of life
 whoemployed the counsel of good men, such as the emperor St. Henry
 who used it in the case against his wife, the virgin Kunigund, whom he
 suspected of adultery.297
 [AG3]Also,justasajudge,wholooksaftersociety,canlawfullypermit
 lesser evils in order to avoid greater ones, such as allowing prostitutes in
 cities to prevent everything from being thrown into confusion through
 lust, as Augustine states in Free Will (“Get rid of the prostitutes and
 you will throw everything into confusion with lust”), the same is the
 case with such a judgment in a situation where someone could be freed
 from the insults and injuries associated with some society arising from
 a criminal or civil case.298
 293 An earlier form of adjudicating criminal charges. The necessary ecclesiastical cooperation was
 prohibited in the early thirteenth century on the grounds that this procedure was tantamount
 to a temptation of God, but the practice continued nonetheless.
 294 This disputed question is defectively conceived. Though the title, the initial arguments, the “sed
 contra” section and the response are readily identifiable, the formal rebuttals of the arguments
 are omitted at the end. In addition, the initial arguments are feeble, and while the response
 deals with the content of AG 1 without addressing it directly, the others are completely ignored.
 295 I.e., the random drawing of lots without any sort of magical interference.
 296 This is a misrepresentation of Aquinas’s view. He holds the judgment by glowing iron or boiling
 water to be illicit because it expects a miraculous intervention from God. He then says the same
 applies to duels except to the extent that they are more like the procedure of drawing lots in
 that nothing miraculous is expected of God except when the contestants are very unequal in
 bravery and skill.
 297 The Holy Roman Emperor Henry II (972–1024), later canonized, had an empress named
 Kunigund. According to the Golden Legend (Ch. 209), with Henry’s consent, she took an oath
 of chastity, and when her virginity was called into question, he had her walk over red-hot
 ploughshares in a form of the judgment by red-hot iron.
 298 This rather feeble argument is based on a play on the Latin word communitas (translated
 as “society” here in an attempt to preserve this verbal play). With reference to the judge’s
 supervision, it signifies what we would call civil society, while with reference to the litigant it
 signifies his “association” with the case. Apart from the common word, the two situations are
 not logically comparable. While the judge is said to tolerate a lesser evil for the sake of the
 “society,” the litigant uses the lesser evil to escape from his “society.”
562
 The Hammer of Witches 218B–D
 [AG 4] Also, the harm to the hands from the glowing iron is less
 important than the taking of a life in a duel. Therefore, if the duel is
 allowed when such is the custom, then a fortiori so is the examination
 by glowing fire.
 218C
 218D
 [SC] Thecontrary position is held in 2,Q.5,“Monomachiam,” where
 it says,“Thosewhofollowtheseandsimilarpracticesseemtobetempting
 God.”Here the Doctors say that it is necessary to note that one should
 keep away not only from what is evil according to the Apostle (1 Thess.
 5[:22]) but from what brings a suggestion of evil, and therefore, it does
 not say in that chapter, “All who follow these practices are tempting
 God,” but “seem to be tempting.” Hence, it should be understood that
 even if it is granted that someone following such practices has in mind
 some purpose that perhaps is right, it is nonetheless necessary to take
 precautions because the appearance is bad.
 [CO]Response.Theunlawfulnessofsuchajudgmentorexamination,
 especially the one by the glowing iron, is demonstrated on two grounds.
 The first is that these procedures are ordained for passing judgment
 on a secret matter, but such matters are reserved for God’s judgment.
 The second is that a judgment of this sort is not sanctioned by the
 authority of God or by the teachings of the Holy Fathers. Hence, it
 says in Chapter “Consuluisti” (2,Q. 5), “What is not sanctioned by
 the teaching of the Holy Fathers is presumed to have been sanctioned
 by superstitious invention,”299 and in the same chapter Pope Stephen
 says,300 “The crimes have been left to be judged by your government
 through unprompted confession or the proof of witnesses. For hidden
 andunknownmattersshouldbelefttoHimWhoaloneknowsthehearts
 of men.”
 There is a difference between a duel and an examination by glowing
 iron or the drinking of boiling water, in that duels are closer to the
 common method of casting lots than is the examination by glowing
 iron, since the duelists are completely equal in manliness and skill.301
 Each form of judgment is ordained for investigating some hidden deed
 throughadeedofman,butbecausesomewondrousoutcomeisexpected
 299 Such is the sense of the text here, which has omitted a negative from the original (“One should
 not presume [to use] in superstitious invention what has not been sanctioned by the teaching
 of the Holy Fathers.”).
 300 Clearly the author never read the original text of this canon, since the whole thing is a single
 decision of Pope Stephen. Aquinas quotes only this part, overtly attributing it to Stephen, and
 some intermediate source has added the earlier quotation from the same canon, in the process
 giving the erroneous impression that it is from a separate decision.
 301 The notion that the opponents in a duel are completely equal is a rather nonsensical recasting
 of what Aquinas did say (se. n. 296).
Part III 218D–219A
 563
 in the judgment by glowing iron, which is not the case with the duel,
 whereonlythekillingofoneorbothtakesplace,theformerexamination
 is altogether unlawful, although the duel is not so unlawful.302
 As an incidental topic for the sake of rulers and secular judges in a
 situation where a duel is allowed, it should be noted that in connec
tion with the words of St. Thomas in which he makes this distinction,
 Nicholas of Lyra, in his Postil 303 on the Bible (on 1 Sam. 17), wishes
 to conclude in connection with the duel (combat) between David and
 the Philistine304 that a duel could be lawful in certain situations, on
 the grounds that this305 was not the meaning of Thomas the Doctor.
 But Paul of Burgos proves the opposite against Nicholas, and rulers and
 secular judges would do well to note his proof. The first proof is that the
 duel, like the other kind of examination,306 is ordained to judge secret
 matters, which are reserved for the judgment of God, as was mentioned
 above.307 Neither can it be said that it was established as an institution 219A
 by David’s combat, because it was revealed to him by God through an
 inner urging that he should enter that contest and because He wished to
 wreak vengeance on the Philistine through him for the harm that had
 been inflicted on Him, as can be gathered from David’s words (“I am
 coming against308 you in the name of the living God” [1 Sam. 17:45]).
 Thus, hewasnotproperly aduelist but an executor of God’s justice. The
 second proof is one that judges in particular should note. In a duel, the
 power, or at least the authorization, to kill each other is granted to both,
 and since one of them is guilty, the power, or at least the authorization,
 to kill an innocent man is granted. Since this is simply unlawful on the
 grounds of violating the dictate of natural law309 and the command
ment310 of God, it is altogether unlawful from the point of view of both
 the challenger and the man who accepts, and also of the judge and his
 302 Aquinas does not draw this conclusion.
 303 The term “postil” signified a marginal note on a passage in the Bible, but the word was also
 used of a collection of comments in the postil format.
 304 I.e., Goliath.
 305 I.e., that a duel was unlawful.
 306 I.e., by glowing iron.
 307 218C.
 308 The normal text of the Vulgate Bible reads “towards you” (ad te) rather than “against you”
 (contra te).
 309 Natural law is a concept that derives from Romanlaw.Thefundamentalnotionwasthatcertain
 actions, like procreation, rearing children and self-preservation, existed among humans during
 the primitive period predating the development of society, when humans acted in the way that
 could still be observed in the animal world (nature). During the medieval and modern periods,
 this concept has been further developed through the influence of other lines of thought (e.g.,
 Christian ideals).
 310 I.e., “thou shalt not kill.”
564
 The Hammer of Witches 219A–C
 219B
 219C
 advisers, who are all considered murderers. Third, a duel is an individual
 combat between two men for the purpose of using the victory of one
 as if it were God’s judgment, to reveal one’s own injustice and the other
 man’s injustice. In that case God is being tempted, which renders the
 duel unlawful from the point of view of the challenger and of the man
 who accepts. In any case, since such judges could use other means to
 bring about a just judgment or conclusion for the suit, when they do
 not do this but recommend a duel or in any way permit it in a situation
 where they could stop it, they are clearly agreeing to the killing311 of
 an innocent man. It is not likely that these considerations escaped the
 notice of Nicholas the Postillator or that he was unaware of them, and
 therefore, when he says that in certain situations a duel can be engaged
 in without sin, he is speaking from the point of view of the judges and
 advisors when it is without their urging or counsel that the challenger
 and the one who accepts carry out such an examination by or in some
 other regard.312
 Because it is not germane to our inquiry to dwell on these matters but
 to discuss sorceresses, quite clearly, if such an examination is prohibited
 in criminal cases involving theft or brigandage, how much more is this
 the case when it is agreed that sorceresses bring about all the effects of
 sorcery withthehelpofdemons,whetherintermsofinflictinginjuriesor
 of healing, breaking or hindering them? It is no wonder that sorceresses
 are preserved from harm in such an examination through the work of
 demons, since, as the natural scientists relate, the juice of a certain plant
 can keep the hands from being burned when smeared on them, and
 the virtues of plants hardly escape the notice of the demon. Even if
 it is granted that he would not prevent the harm by interposing some
 body between the hands of the carrier and the iron (an effect he can
 produce invisibly), he could nonetheless achieve this effect through such
 natural properties in objects. Hence, because of the close familiarity
 that sorceresses have with demons, they should be purged by such an
 examination less than any other criminals are. Rather, by the very fact
 of appealing to it women should be considered suspected sorceresses.
 This conclusion is further bolstered by an event that is said to have
 happened in the diocese of Constance scarcely three years ago.313 In the
 311 I.e., the possibility of killing.
 312 There is no reason to think that Nicholas meant anything of the kind. This is simply an
 unjustified effort to reconcile the conflict of two recognized authorities (who by definition
 ought not to conflict).
 313 SurvivingrecordsmakeitpossibletodatethefollowinganecdotetoexactlyMarch14,1485,when
 Anna Henni of R¨ otenbach was released after an ordeal by Count Henry of F¨ urstenberg. Since
Part III 219C–220A
 565
 dominionofthecountsofF¨ urstenberg, in the region oftheBlackForest,
 there was a certain notorious sorceress who had a very bad reputation
 among the locals. She was arrested by the count at the insistence of a
 large number of people and was denounced with very many indications
 relating to various acts of sorcery. When she was eventually questioned
 under torture, she appealed to the examination by glowing iron in her
 desire to escape everyone’s hands, and the young count, being quite
 inexperienced in these matters, allowed the examination. When she was
 ordered to carry the glowing iron for only three paces, she carried it for 219D
 six and offered to carry it again for a longer distance. Hence, although
 they could have judged it a manifest indication of sorcery, since none of
 the Saints would have presumedtotempttheassistance of God in sucha
 way,shewasnonethelessreleasedfromherchainsandremainsunharmed
 to the present day, which clearly results in no little scandal to the Faith.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 17:
 Aq., Summa 2/2.95.8]
 question eighteen: the definitive sentence as
 such, and how it should be passed
 NEXT,the treatment ofthosemattersinwhichthesecularjudge
 can conduct the investigation and pass sentence by himself, while the
 ordinaries may remain unburdened if they wish. Not only is it our
 presupposition that we inquisitors are relieved of this burden without
 detriment to the Faith and justice, but it is also our desire that the bish
ops should enjoy the same propriety in being relieved. In this we are by
 no means eliminating their capacity and jurisdiction, but if they wish to
 use it, it would be necessary for us inquisitors to collaborate with them
 according to Chapter “Multorum querela” (“Heretics” in the Clemen
tines). Let them note, however, that since the charge against sorceresses
 is not purely ecclesiastical, temporal powers and lords are not forbidden 220A
 to pass judgment and sentence, as is stated in Chapter “Ut Inquisitionis”
 §“Prohibemus”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”). (He314 will in a similar manner
 the Malleus elsewhere indicates that it was finished in 1486, the dating here implies 1483, which
 conflicts with the correct date. This event is apparently also alluded to in the Memorandum
 (476), where Institoris describes the event as having taken place “just recently” (nouissime).
 Since the Memorandum dates to late 1485 or early 1486, this indicates that Institoris was fully
 aware of the correct date, so the source of the error here is hard to determine.
 314 This and the preceding sentence are not clearly composed. The flow of the present sentence
 would suggest that it is “this power” (i.e., the secular judge) who will conclude which cases
566
 The Hammer of Witches 220A–B
 determine in whose cases this power cannot pass the definitive sentence
 or conduct the investigation without the diocesans.)
 First, it is necessary to look at the sentence in its own right, second,
 how it should be passed, and, third, how many methods there are by
 which it should be passed.
 Regarding the first topic. According to Augustine, as is quoted in
 2,Q. 1 [Decretum 2.2.1.1], “We can pass sentence only on someone
 who has been convicted or has confessed unprompted,” and there are
 three kinds of sentence, “namely, interlocutory, definitive, and instruc
tional,” as the Summary Gloss says at the beginning of the question.
 Raymund says in illustration of this, “‘Interlocutory sentence’ is the
 name for a sentence that is pronounced not on the main issue but on
 other questions that crop up between the beginning and end of the case,
 such as whether to debar a witness or whether or not to grant a delay
 and the like. Perhaps it is called interlocutory because it is pronounced
 220B
 by speaking among the parties without the formality of writing.315 A
 sentence is called definitive when the main question is given a defini
tive decision (Pandect, “The Decided Issue” Law 1 [Digest 42.1.1]). The
 instructional sentence is when a superior instructs an inferior.” The
 f
 irst two are the next topic for our inquiry, especially the definitive
 sentence.
 The second316 thing to be noted is that although the gloss mentioned
 abovesays that if the definitive sentence is passed without the observance
 of the legal procedure, it is void in law (on 2,Q.6, “Si quando” §2
 “Diffinitiva”). Later on it says, “You should be aware that there are
 two kinds of legal procedure. One concerns the fundamental essence of
 courts, such as the provision that a formal joinder of the suit317 should
 take place and that witnesses should be admitted. If sentence is passed
 contrary to such procedure, it is not binding. The other kind does
 not concern the essence of courts, for instance, the provision that the
 sentenceshouldnotbepassedconditionallyorthatasentenceshouldnot
 be pronounced about possession before one is passed about ownership.
 If this procedure is not maintained,thesentenceisbinding,asisstated in
 2,Q.6, ‘Anteriorum’ §‘Biduum’.” (The present case is one that involves
 he can try without a diocesan, though apparently the subject is meant to be “the bishop.”
 Presumably, the phrase “in a similar manner” means “by consulting the canon just cited.”
 315 This statement is based on the literal meaning of the Latin verb interloqui (“to speak among”)
 from which the adjective “interlocutory” is derived.
 316 Not the second topic listed in 220A (this is discussed in 220C–D), but a second point regarding
 the first topic.
 317 See. n. 134.
Part III 220B–D
 567
 the Faith, andinachargeofheresy,thoughitismixed,318 theproceedings
 are summary, straightforward, and informal, as is explained in Chapter 220C
 “Statuta”(Liber Sextus). For the interpretation of these words you have
 the discussion above319 in Question Six.) There, the text reads, “The
 judge should not demand a petition or require a formal joinder of the
 suit . . . ,” and later it continues, “He should admit the necessary proofs,
 and likewise the summons and the presentation of an oath about false
 accusation” and so on. Hence the explanation of the other320 method of
 conducting the proceedings, which is now governed by the modern321
 legal provisions.
 Regarding the second322 topic (how the sentence is to be passed),
 note that it should be pronounced by the judge and not by someone
 else. Otherwise, it is not valid. Also, in a respectable public place, with
 the judge sitting down, as is stated in 3,Q.3,“Indutiae” §“Spatium,”
 and during the day and not at night, and so on about many matters
 noted there. Also, whereas it is stated there that sentence should not be
 passed on Holy Days and that it should be passed in writing, it is to
 be noted that the proceedings are to be summary, straightforward and
 informal, as was mentioned above, and that in “Meaning of Words,”
 Chapter “Sepe contingit” intheClementines it says that the judge can
 legally conduct proceedings during a time of the Holy Days granted
 by the law as an indulgence for the sake of men’s needs and that the 220D
 judge should cut out any delays. Hence, if he wishes, the judge will
 be able to follow those provisions. He is also not obligated to give his
 pronouncement in writing, since according to John Andreae there are
 manycircumstancesinwhichthesentencemaybevalidwithoutwriting,
 and amongthemis listed the custom of the region or court (Distinction
 11, Chapter “Consuetudinis”). Even if he is a judge, a bishop can read out
 sentence through someone else after the fashion of illustrious men.
 Also, note that in criminal cases the execution of sentence should not
 be put off, but this provision is not valid in certain situations. There are
 four in particular, but two will be taken up as relevant to the subject
 matter.First, if sentencehasbeenpassedinthecaseofapregnantwoman,
 it is delayed until the time of birth (Pandect, “Legal Regulation,” Law
 318 The point being that as a “mixed” crime it can also be handled in a secular court, which would
 have provisions different from the ecclesiastical ones discussed here.
 319 199B–C.
 320 I.e., subsequent.
 321 See n. 56.
 322 As laid out in 220A.
568
 The Hammer of Witches 220D–221A
 “Pregnantis”).323 Likewise, when someone has confessed the crime and
 later denies it (understand, “if the confession wasnotpreviouslyrepeated
 in the manner discussed above in Question Fifteen”).324
 Regarding the third325 topic (how many methods there are by which
 it is to be passed). From now on until the end of the work we will
 treat these methods, but there are some preliminary remarks to be set
 out regarding the methods by which a denounced person is rendered
 suspect, because different sentences are to be passed about the different
 kinds of suspicion.
 question nineteen: how many methods create a
 suspicion that results in the passing of sentence
 221A
 WHENitisaskedbyhowmanyandbywhichmethodspeopleare
 called suspected of heresy or another crime, and whether in a situation
 involving such a crime they are to be judged and sentenced on the basis
 of those methods, the response is that this is the case under both the
 ancient and the modern326 procedures. The gloss on Chapter “Nos in
 quemquem” cited in the preceding question327 says that there are four
 methods of convicting the accused: by law, for instance, with objects or
 witnesses;bytheevidenceofthedeed(Extra,“ClericsandWomenLiving
 Together,” Chapter “Tua”); by legal interpretation, for instance, because
 the accused has been summoned several times (3,Q.9,“Decrevimus”);
 or by violent suspicion (32,Q.1,“Dixit”).
 The canonists note that there are three kinds of suspicion. The first is
 “rash,” andaboutthisonethecanonsays,“Youshouldnotpassjudgment
 on anyone on the basis of suspicion” (2,Q.1,“Primo”).328 The second
 323 No such law.
 324 212C. Here this question, which was originally meant to be Q. 15 and ought to have been
 renumbered as the fourteenth once the originally planned question eight was omitted but was
 not, is given the erroneous original number that appears in the text. A previous cross reference
 (216D) to the same chapter gives the correct, lower number, and presumably this means that
 while that cross reference was based either on an external list that correctly numbered the
 chapters according to the later scheme (note that the independent count of the chapters of the
 section in 194A–B takes no notice of the omitted eighth chapter) or on a mental correction
 of the number in light of the omission, the present reference was determined either through
 consultation of an earlier list that still gave the original numeration (such a list was used for
 the main table of contents, which does list the omitted chapter; see 5B) or through direct
 consultation of the final version of the text.
 325 As laid out in 220A.
 326 For the distinction, see n. 56.
 327 220A (without the name).
 328 Actually, this canon makes no distinction about varieties of suspicion and says absolutely that
 no one should be condemned on the basis of suspicion alone.
Part III 221A–C
 569
 is “probable,” and this kind, but not the first, results in purgation, as is
 stated in 2,Q.4,“Presbyter.” The third kind is “violent,” which results
 in condemnation. Jerome is understood to mean this kind when he 221B
 says that a wife can be divorced because of fornication or the suspicion
 of fornication (32,Q. 1, “Dixit”). In addition, note that the second
 kind, which is probable suspicion, is admitted as a semi-full329 proof,
 as is stated in many chapters of Extra, “Presumptions” [2.23], and so it
 contributes to the proof if other aids are present. Consequently, it is not
 admitted only for the imposing of purgation.
 Regarding violent suspicion, which is sufficient for condemnation,
 note that this is of two kinds. Certain suspicion is of the law and by
 the law,330 as when the law pretends and establishes something about
 the deed and no proof is allowed against the suspicion, as in Extra,
 “Betrothals,” “Nec qui fidem,” where it says that if someone gives his
 word to a woman about contracting a marriage with her and sexual
 union later follows, it is presumed that there is a marriage and proof
 to the contrary is not admitted. Some suspicion is of the law but not
 by the law, as is the case when the law presumes but does not establish
 something.Forinstance,ifamanhaslivedwithawomanforalongtime,
 it is presumed that she has been known331 by him (32,Q. 1,“Dixit”),
 and against this proof is admitted.
 To relate this to the question at hand, which is the Heresy of Sorcer
esses and the modern procedures, we say that in the law there are held to
 be three kinds of suspicion concerning the charge of heresy: moderate,
 great and very great. The first (“moderate”) is called light suspicion in
 the law. This is stated in the beginning of Chapter “Accusatus”(Liber
 Sextus, “Heretics”), where it says, “If the suspicion was light and mod
erate, although he should be severely punished on this basis, he should
 not, however, be punished with the penalty for those who have relapsed
 into heresy.” This kind of suspicion is therefore called “moderate” or
 “light,” both because it is removed with a moderate or light defense, and
 because it arises from moderate and light conjectures. For this reason,
 it is called “moderate” from the moderate indications and “light” from
 light conjectures, for instance in simple heresy involving the Faith if
 329 This term is not in fact used in the canon. The word is part of the legal vocabulary developed
 in secular jurisprudence as part of the effort to “weigh” the value of varying sorts of evidence.
 330 The distinction is that in the “presumption of the law” a situation is assumed to result from
 certain circumstances but evidence to the contrary may be presented, while in the “presumption
 by the law” (de iure) the law itself dictates that the situation is necessarily assumed to be the
 case under certain circumstances, and no evidence to the contrary may be presented.
 331 I.e., sexually.
 221C
570
 The Hammer of Witches 221C–222A
 221D
 222A
 somepeople are found to be holding hidden conventicles332 or deviating
 in their wayoflife orhabits fromthecommonbehaviorofthefaithful,as
 is explained in the first Chapter “Excommunicamus”(Extra, “Heretics”).
 The same applies with reference to the Heresy of Sorceresses, when by
 night or day, in the fields or woods, they summon conventicles during
 the Ember Days333 or the more important holy times334 of the year, or
 when it is found that women either are keeping to themselves and not
 attending Divine Service at the customary times or in the customary
 ways or form secret friendships with suspected sorceresses. Such people
 are considered to be at least lightly suspected of heresy, because it is
 proven that heretics of this kind often do such things. This sort of light
 suspicion is mentioned in the Chapter of the Code “Heretics” at the
 end of Law 2 [1.5.2.1], where it says, “Those who are revealed by even
 a light demonstration to deviate from the judgment and path of the
 Catholic religion are classified as heretics and should be subjected to
 the sanctions promulgated against them.” Hostiensis agrees with this
 opinion in Summa, Title “Presumptions,” §“Finali,” where he says, “It
 should be noted that although heretics are revealed with light proof,
 that is, for the purpose of being considered to be suspected heretics,
 they ought not to be considered to be heretics.” (He proves this with the
 preceding arguments.)
 Thesecond(“great”)suspicionis called“vehement”or“strong”bythe
 law. This again is mentioned in the beginning of Chapter “Accusatus,”
 which reads as follows. “The person accused or suspected of heresy,
 against whomagreatandvehementsuspicionhadarisenconcerningthis
 crime...”Heretheconjunction“and”isusedtoindicatenotanaddition
 butanelaboration, asJohnAndreaenotes(samepassage):“‘Vehement’is
 the same thing as ‘strong,’ as the Archdeacon says on the word ‘vehemens’
 in the cited Chapter ‘Accusatus,’ as [Bernard] of Pavia says.335 In saying
 that ‘vehement’ is the same thing as ‘strong’ or ‘large,’ Haguccio cited336
 Gregory in Bk. 1 of Moralia: ‘A vehement wind rushes down from the
 direction of the thing that it carries.’ And the gloss on the passage ‘A
 sound suddenly was made from heaven as if of vehement spirit coming’
 (Acts 2[:2]) says, ‘That is, a strong wind.’ And in the book Catholicon,
 which is about words and their meanings, it says, ‘“Vehemens” means
 fortis [“strong”].’ Hence we say that someone has a vehement case when
 332 The standard derogatory term for the religious assemblies of heretics.
 333 For the meaning of this, see Pt. ii n. 444.
 334 Esp. the Easter and Christmas seasons (112D).
 335 Passage unidentified.
 336 Passage unidentified.
Part III 222A–C
 571
 he has a strong one.”337 Therefore, a great suspicion is called “vehement”
 or “strong.”
 It is called this because it is warded off only with vehement or strong
 defenses, and also because it arises from great and vehement and strong
 conjectures, arguments and indications, for instance, with reference to
 simple heresy, if certain people are found to be hiding those whom
 they know to be heretics, bestow favor on them, associate with them, 222B
 visit them, give them gifts, receive them, defend them, or follow similar
 practices. Such people are vehemently suspected of heresy, and with
 reference to the Heresy of Sorceresses they are recognized as such in a
 similar way, in that the suspicion arises that they are participating with
 theminthecrime,andtheyareespecially notorious. In this, men behave
 like women in that they use sorcery for the purpose of irregular love or
 hatred, though they otherwise have no propensity to harm humans
 or domestic animals. As has already been mentioned, those who follow
 similarpracticesinconnectionwithanyheresyarevehementlysuspected,
 as is explained by the cited Chapter “Accusatus”in§“Illo vero” and by
 the notes made by the Archdeacon, since there is no doubt that they are
 doing such things in favor of that kind of heretical depravity.
 The third kind of suspicion. This is the greatest kind, and in law it is
 called “violent” in Chapter “Cum contumacia” and in Chapter “Accusa
tus”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”). This is explained by the notes made by
 the Archdeacon and John Andreae on the word “vehemens” in Chapter
 “Accusatus,” where they say, “It says ‘vehement’ and not ‘violent’ (above 222C
 in the Title ‘Presumptions,’ Chapter ‘Litteras’).” The Canon speaks of
 this kind of suspicion (34,“Quorundam”).338 This presumption or sus
picion is called violent, both because by violence it forces, compels and
 obligates the judge to believe, and can be refuted with no sort of retrac
tion, and because it arises from violent, convincing and compelling con
jectures. For example, with reference to simple heresy, if some people
 are found to have worshipped heretics, that is, to have offered reverence
 to them, to have taken consolation339 or communion from them, or to
 337 The exact attribution of all these quotations is left somewhat unclear. The passage ends with
 hec ibi (“these things there”), which is a way of indicating the end of a quote, but the words
 actually refer to the end of the quote from Eymeric, which is not marked out as such. Thus,
 a reader of the Latin would be left in some doubt as to which quote was ending and who was
 citing whom.
 338 There is such a canon, but it hardly seems relevant. (It concerns the censure and possible
 excommunication of a young bishop who is overly fond of hunting and overly familiar with
 his own daughter; there is no mention of suspicion, as the pope who wrote the text is writing
 back to the archbishop who had informed him of the bishop’s malfeasance.)
 339 A technical term for a ritual in Catharism that resembled the Catholic mass.
572
 The Hammer of Witches 222C–223A
 have committed other crimes that form part of their ritual, such people
 are convicted through violent suspicion of heresy and of believing in
 heretics by Chapters “Filii” and “Accusatus”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”)
 and by the notes made by the Archdeacon on the word “Credentes”in
 Chapter “Quicumque hereticos”(Liber Sextus, same title), since there is
 no doubt that they do such things as part of their belief in heretical
 depravity.
 222D
 223A
 In the Heresy of Sorceresses, those who commit the crimes that form
 part of the ritual of sorceresses are treated in a similar way. These
 crimes are varied. For instance, they sometimes commit them only with
 insulting words, when they say, “You will soon see what will happen to
 you,” or words to the same effect, or sometimes only with touch, when
 theytouchapersonorbeastwiththeirhands,oronlybysight,whenthey
 reveal themselves during the night-time or daytime to certain people
 who are sleeping in their bedrooms (when they are striving to affect
 humans or animals with sorcery). They follow various other methods
 with reference to hailstorms, offering themselves in other ceremonies
 and engaging in different behavior by a river, as was explained340 in
 earlier sections on the topic of the methods of inflicting acts of sorcery.
 When the general rumor is worked up at the time of their discovery,
 such people are clearly convicted by violent suspicion concerning the
 Heresy of Sorceresses, especially in a situation where the effect ensued
 in terms of an act of sorcery, whether immediately or over the course
 of time. In that case, there is the coincidence of the evident deed, or of
 indications of the deed, when devices for sorcery are found deposited in
 some location. The passage of time is not, however, such an aggravating
 factor in terms of evidence of the deed, but she remains vehemently
 suspected by a fortiori reasoning to a greater extent than is the case with
 simple heresy.341
 If it is asked whether theDevilcanaffecthumansordomesticanimals
 with sorcery without the sight or touch of women, the response is that
 he clearly can if God gives His permission, but because the permission
 of Godisgreater whenbymeansofarenunciationoftheFaithacreature
 340 The topic of causing storms was treated in Pt. ii,Q. 1, Ch. 15 (144C–148A), but there is no
 mention there of activity by a river. Given the reference to “ceremonies” here, perhaps this
 reference has something to do with the sexual relations with demons which were admitted to
 by one of the accused at Ravensburg and which are noted emphatically in the text (146B).
 341 The reason why the acts leading to a vehement suspicion are a fortiori more indicative of the
 Heresy of Sorceresses compared to regular heresy is presumably that whereas the examples of
 the latter, like showing reverence to heretics, may imply heretical beliefs without actually being
 in and of themselves heretical, the supposed acts of the Heresy of Sorceresses are an inherent
 part of the heresy.
Part III 223A–C
 573
 dedicatedtoGodco-operatesinfurtherhorriblecrimes,theDevilgreatly
 prefers this method of affecting creatures with sorcery. Indeed, it can in
 fact be said that even if the Devil could do so without a sorceress, it is
 still his greatest desire to carry out such practices through a sorceress, as
 was explained in earlier sections.342
 In summationofthe issue at hand concerning the methods of passing
 judgment on the basis of presumptions, it should be said that with
 reference to the distinction mentioned above,343 those suspected of the
 HeresyofSorceressesconsistofthreekinds,somebeingsuspectedlightly,
 some vehemently, and some violently.
 Those lightly suspected are those whose practices along these lines
 are moderate or light, so that as a result of them a moderate or light
 suspicion of this heresy arises against them. Although, as has been said,
 when someone is found suspect in this way, he should not be con
sidered a heretic, canonical purgation should still be enjoined upon
 him, or abjuration for a light offense should be imposed upon him.
 In fact, that purgation can be enjoined on him is stated in the begin- 223B
 ning of the first Chapter “Excommunicamus”(Extra, “Heretics”), where
 it says, “As for those who are found worthy of censure only through
 suspicion” (Hostiensis says, “by probable suspicion, that is, by a light
 suspicion that is lightly344 visible”) “unless, in a manner consistent with
 considerations of the suspicion and the quality of their person, they
 demonstrate their own innocence with suitable purgation, they should
 be stricken with the sword of anathema345 and should be avoided by
 everyone until they provide due satisfaction. Hence, if they remain in
 a state of excommunication for a year, they should then be condemned
 as heretics.” (Note that once purgation has been enjoined on him, then
 whether he agrees or not and whether he fails or not, judgment is to be
 passed in exactly the same way as would be the case with someone with
 a bad reputation for heresy, upon whom canonical purgation is to be
 enjoined.)
 That abjuration can be imposed on such a person for being lightly
 suspected of heresy is made clear by the beginning of Chapter “Accusa
tus,” where it says, “If a person who was accused or suspected of heresy,
 because a great and vehement suspicion of this had arisen against
 him, abjured this heresy in court and later committed an offense 223C
 342 See esp. 126B.
 343 221A.
 344 In Latin, “lightly” (leviter) can also mean “easily.”
 345 Technical term for the official declaration of excommunication.
574
 The Hammer of Witches 223C–224A
 relating to that heresy, he ought by a fiction of the law to be considered
 relapsed, although before his abjuration the charge of heresy had not
 been proven against him. If, on the other hand, the suspicion was mod
erate and light, although he should not be punished on this basis, he still
 ought to be punished with the penalty for those who have relapsed into
 heresy.”
 Somepeoplearevehementlysuspect,andthesearethosewhoperform
 such vehement and strong acts that from them there arises a vehement
 and strong suspicion. These people are not heretics and should not be
 condemnedasheretics,because,asisexplicitlystatedinExtra,“Presump
tions,” Chapter “Litteras,” § “Quocirca,” no one is to be condemned for
 so great a crime in light of vehement suspicion. (The text says, “There
fore, We order that since it is not Our wish that he be condemned for
 so serious a crime because of a mere suspicion, even if it is vehement.”)
 Nonetheless, someone so vehemently suspected ought to be ordered to
 makeanabjurationofeveryheresyingeneralandinparticularagainstthe
 223D
 224A
 heresy about which he has come to be strongly suspected, according to
 the beginning of the cited Chapter “Accusatus,” as has been mentioned,
 andtheChapter“Intersollicitudines”(Extra, “Canonical Purgation”) and
 the Chapter “Litteras”(Extra, Title “Presumptions”).
 If he later relapses, into either the original heresy or another one,
 or associates with, visits or brings home those whom he knows to be
 sorcerers or heretics, or consults them by giving gifts, or sends gifts, or
 bestows favor on them, he will not escape the penalty for the relapsed
 according to the cited Chapter “Accusatus,” where it says the following:
 “As for the person who has committed an offence in connection with a
 single form of heresy or sect or has erred in terms of a single article of
 the Faith or a Sacrament, and later abjured heresy in a simple or general
 way, if he later commits an offense in terms of a different form or sect
 or a different article or Sacrament, it is Our desire that he should be
 judged as one who has relapsed into heresy. Therefore, as for a person
 about whose lapse into heresy there had been general agreement before
 the abjuration, or there now is such agreement, if after that abjuration
 he receives, takes home, visits or associates with heretics, or gives or
 sends presents to them, or bestows favor on them ...” and below it
 continues, “he should be rightly judged to have relapsed, since on the
 basis of the error previously demonstrated by him there is no doubt that
 he did this.”
 From these words it is clear that in three situations the person vehe
mently suspected of heresy in general is punished with the penalty for
Part III 224A–C
 575
 the relapsed after he has madeanabjuration.Thefirstiswhenherelapses
 into the same, original heresy for which he had been vehemently sus
pected. Thesecondiswhenhehasabjuredheresyinasimpleandgeneral
 manner and yet relapses into another heresy, even though it is granted
 that he had never been considered suspect or denounced for it previ
ously. The third is when he receives heretics, brings them home, and
 bestows favor on them. This circumstance encompasses many situations
 and has many variants, as is clear in the cited §“Eum vero” in the quite
 frequently repeated Chapter “Accusatus.”
 It is asked what should be done if such a vehemently suspected person
 does not immediately agree346 to make an abjuration at the command
 of his judge: should he be handed over to the discretion of the secular
 power for punishment with duepenalty according to the §“Praesenti”in
 Chapter “Ad abolendam”? The response is, certainly not, because that 224B
 chapter and section are explicitly speaking of those who are suspected
 but notmanifestly caught in heresy and soon,andmorestringentaction
 should be taken against those who are manifestly caught than against
 those who are merely suspected.
 If it is asked how the proceedings should be conducted against such a
 person, the response is that such proceedings will follow §“Qui vero sola
 suspicione” (cited above) of the first Chapter “Excommunicamus.”Hewill
 be excommunicated, and if he remains in this state of excommunication
 for a year, he shouldbecondemnedasahereticaccordingtothatchapter.
 Some people are violently suspected, and these are those who carry
 out such violent347 acts that a violent suspicion arises against them
 on the basis of these acts. Such a person is to be considered to be a
 heretic, and judgment should be passed against him as it would be
 against someone caught in heresy according to §“Qui vero” of the first
 Chapter “Excommunicamus”(Extra, “Heretics”), Chapter “Cum contu
macia” and the Chapter “Utofficium”(Liber Sextus). They either confess
 the crime or they do not. If they do and wish to return to the church
 and to abjure heresy under penance, they are to be received accord
ing to Chapter “Ad abolendam” and §“Finali” of the second Chap
ter “Excommunicamus.” If they do not agree to make the abjuration,
 they are to be handed over to the secular court to be punished with 224C
 the due penalty according to the first paragraph cited from Chapter
 “Ad abolendam.” If they do not confess the crime, after he has been
 346 The printed text omits the negative from Eymeric, and so reads “agrees to make an abjuration,”
 but there seems to be no reason to think this change intentional.
 347 Obviously not literally violent but violently suspicious; an unsuccessful play on words.
576
 The Hammer of Witches 224C–D
 convicted without agreeing to make the abjuration, he is to be con
demnedasanimpenitent heretic according to Chapter “Ad abolendam.”
 For violent suspicion suffices for condemnation and allows no proof to
 the contrary, as is stated in Extra, “Presumptions,” Chapters “Litteras”
 and “Afferte.”
 224D
 This discussion is relevant in the case of simple heresy without any
 evidence or indication of the deed, as will be explained on the topic
 of Method Six348 of passing sentence, where someone is condemned
 as a heretic even if he is not one in fact. How much more is this the
 case in a situation involving the Heresy of Sorceresses, where there is
 always the coincidence of either the evident deed in terms of children,
 humans or domestic animals affected by sorcery or an indication of the
 deed, for instance, the discovery of devices! In the case of simple heresy,
 those who are penitent and make an abjuration under penance or life
 imprisonment are received into the church, as has been mentioned. In
 the case of the Heresy of Sorceresses, however, although the ecclesiastical
 judge receives them, so to speak, under penance, the civil judge can
 nonetheless inflict the death penalty because of the crimes involving
 temporal losses, and the ecclesiastical judge cannot impede him.349 The
 ecclesiastical one cannot hand the person over for punishment, but he
 can abandon him.350
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 19:
 Eymeric, Dir. 2.55]
 question twenty: method one of passing sentence
 THEREFORE, the denounced person:
 is found innocent and is to be totally absolved,351 or
 is found merely to have a bad reputation in general for heresy,352 or
 is found, in addition to the bad reputation, to be subject in some way
 to being exposed to questioning under torture,353 or
 is found lightly suspected of heresy,354 or
 348 Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 349 Cf. 236D with n. 432.
 350 For an explanation of the distinction between “handing over” and “abandoning,” see n. 69.
 351 Method 1 in Q. 20 (225A–D).
 352 Method 2 in Q. 21 (225D–227B).
 353 Method 3 in Q. 22 (227B–228D).
 354 Method 4 in Q. 23 (228D–230A).
Part III 224D–225A
 577
 is found vehemently suspected of heresy,355 or
 is found violently suspected of heresy,356 or
 is found to have a bad reputation for heresy and to be at the same
 time commonly suspected of it,357 or
 is found to have confessed heresy and to be penitent but not truly
 relapsed,358 or
 is found to have confessed heresy and to be penitent but probably 225A
 relapsed,359 or
 is found to have confessed and to be impenitent but not in fact
 relapsed,360 or
 is found to have confessed heresy and to be impenitent and in fact
 relapsed,361 or
 is found not to have confessed but to be convicted of heresy through
 lawful witnesses and by other judicial means,362 or
 is found to be convicted of heresy but to be a fugitive or to be contu
maciously absent,363 or
 is found to have been denounced by another sorceress who is to be or
 has been burned to ashes,364 or
 is found not to have inflicted acts of sorcery but to have broken them
 through unlawful remedies and unsuitable means,365 or
 is foundtohaveinflictedfatalwoundsasasorcererarcherorenchanter
 of weapons,366 or
 is found to have dedicated babies to demons with a hostile curse as a
 sorceress midwife,367 or
 is found to be seeking protection through the frivolous or fraudulent
 use of the remedy of appeal.368
 355 Method 5 in Q. 24 (230A–231D).
 356 Method 6 in Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 357 Method 7 in Q. 26 (234C–236B).
 358 Method 8 in Q. 27 (236B–238A).
 359 Method 9 in Q. 28 (238A–240C).
 360 Method 10 in Q. 29 (240C–241C).
 361 Method 11 in Q. 30 (241C–242C).
 362 Method 12 in Q. 31 (242D–245A).
 363 Method 13 in Q. 32 (245B–248B).
 364 Method 14 in Q. 33 (248B–251B).
 365 Method 15 in Q. 34 (251B–252C).
 366 Treated as an incidental topic in Q. 34 (252D, 254B). Associated with this topic is a treatment
 of aiders and abettors, but no notice is taken of this here (or in the specific table of contents in
 225A).
 367 Treated as an incidental topic in Q. 34 (252C, 254B–C).
 368 Q. 35 (255A–258C); though given here (and in the introductory table of contents, 6D) as the
 last method, there is no numeration in the text.
578
 The Hammer of Witches 225A–C
 225B
 225C
 If the person is in fact found totally innocent, the definitive sentence
 should be passed on this person in the following manner. It should
 be noted at this point that the denounced person is found totally
 innocent in a situation where, after a careful discussion of the merits of
 the proceedings with a good panel of experts, she is not convicted by her
 own confession or by evidence of the deed or by the legal production of
 witnesses (because they differ on the main point) and this person was
 not otherwise suspected and did not have a bad public reputation for
 this crime (it would be different if she had a bad reputation for some
 other crime),369 and there are also no indications of the deed against this
 person. Concerning such a person the following procedure is followed,
 and the person is to be absolved by the bishop or judge with a sentence
 of the following content.
 “We, (Name), by God’s mercy Bishop of Such-and-Such town (or
 judge Such-and-Such and so on) noted that you, Such-and-Such from
 Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese, were denounced to
 us for such-and-such heretical depravity, namely that of sorceresses, and
 notedthat these charges weresuchthatweneithercouldnorshouldhave
 let them pass with conniving eyes. Therefore, we resorted to conducting
 an inquisition into whether the aforesaid charges were based upon the
 truth, receiving witnesses, examining you, and doing other things that
 werefittingaccordingtothesanctionsoftheCanon.Accordingly,having
 seen andcarefully examined all the transactions and dealings in this case,
 having held a panel of men expert both in the law and in the faculty
 of theology, and having recalled it several times, we are now sitting in
 tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment, keeping before our
 eyes God alone and the truth of the case, with the Sacrosanct Gospels
 placed in our presence so that our judgment may come forth from
 the face of God and our eyes may see fairness, and will proceed to
 our definitive sentence in the following manner, invoking the name of
 Christ. Whereas by all the things that we have seen and heard and that
 have been brought forward and offered, transacted and proceeded with
 before us, in the present case we do not find that anything has been
 legally proven against you concerning the matters for which you were
 369 This parenthetical comment has been added to the material from Eymeric. Apparently, having
 a reputation for any sort of questionable behavior is sufficient to make one a suspect in the
 Heresy of Sorceresses, unlike the situation with other heresies.
Part III 225C–226A
 579
 denounced before us, we pronounce, declare and give as our definitive
 sentence against you that no legal transaction has taken place before us
 on account of which you can and should be judged to be a heretic or
 sorcerer or should be considered to be suspected of heretical depravity
 in any way. Hence, from this moment we release you totally from this 225D
 inquisition and court. This sentence was passed” and so on.370
 Care should be taken that it is never stated in any sentence that the
 denounced person is innocent or blameless, but only that nothing was
 proven legally against him, because if he is again denounced afterwards
 in the course of time and the charge is then legally proven, he can be
 condemned regardless of the sentence that absolved him. Note also that
 someone is to be absolved in the same way when hehasbeendenounced
 for receiving, defending or otherwise abetting heretical depravity and
 nothing is proven against him legally.
 The secular judge acting by episcopal delegation will pass judgment
 after his own fashion.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 20:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 1 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de primo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-one: method two of passing
 sentence on a denounced woman who merely has
 a bad reputation
 METHODTwoofpassingsentenceiswhenthedenouncedman
 (or woman) is found, after a careful examination of the merits of the
 proceedings with a good panel of experts, to have a bad reputation for
 suchheresyinsomevillage,cityorprovince,thatis,whenthisdenounced
 person is not convicted by his own confession or by evidence of the deed
 or by the lawful production of witnesses, and there are no indications 226A
 proven against him at all except precisely this bad reputation, so that no
 act of sorcery inparticular is proven tohavebeencommitted.Suchanact
 can serve as proof in a situation of vehement or violent suspicion, when
 the person threateningly uttered words about inflicting harm, saying in
 meaning or sense, “Soon you see what things will happen to you,” and
 370 The time and location would then be added.
580
 The Hammer of Witches 226A–C
 later some effect ensued in terms of harm to bodies371 or to domestic
 animals.
 Therefore, in the case of someone against whom nothing is proven
 except precisely the bad reputation, the following procedure is to be
 followed. In such a situation, the sentence that can be passed for the
 denounced person is not one absolving him, as was discussed on the
 topic of Method One, but one imposing canonical purgation on him.
 Therefore, the bishop (or his official) or the judge should first note that
 in a case of heresy, it makes no difference that someone should have a
 bad reputation only among good men and serious persons, and instead,
 attention is paid in this case to his having a bad reputation among any
 base and simple folk. The reason is that since someone can in fact have
 a bad reputation among those by whom he can be accused on a charge
 of heresy, and a heretic can be accused by any persons at all (only mortal
 226B
 226C
 enemies are excluded, as was explained above ),372 a person can have a
 bad reputation among those people.373
 The bishop (or the judge) will, therefore, pass sentence in a situation
 involving canonical purgation in the following or a similar manner:
 “We, (Name), by God’s mercy Bishop of Such-and-Such city (or
 judge of Such-and-Such lord), consider that after a careful examination
 (andsoon)ofthemeritsoftheproceedingsconductedbyusagainstyou,
 Such-and-Such of Such-and-Such diocese, who have been denounced
 to us for such-and-such heretical depravity, we do not find you to have
 confessed or to have been convicted of the aforementioned stain, or to
 be otherwise suspected even lightly of it, except that we find that you
 legally and truly have a general bad reputation among both the goodand
 the bad people in Such-and-Such village, city or diocese. Accordingly, in
 order for this bad reputation to be purged andforyoutobeofgoododor
 among the congregation of the faithful, we impose canonical purgation
 uponyouinthelawfulway, assigning to you such-and-such day of such
and-such month and such-and-such hour of that day. At that time, you
 are to appear in person before us in order to purge your bad reputation
 with a group composed of such-and-such a number of people of your
 estate, these compurgators being people who are Catholic in faith and
 proven in way of life, who know your behavior and way of life, not
 371 I.e., of humans.
 372 Q. 5 (198C–199B).
 373 This is a clumsy attempt at a syllogism, though the unfounded first premise is really nothing
 but arestatement of the conclusion. The practice of accepting the testimony of common people
 apparently caused the author disquiet, and he felt the need to justify it.
Part III 226C–D
 581
 so much at the present time as in the past. We indicate that if you fail
 in this purgation, we will consider you convicted, as is the desire of the
 Canon’s sanctions.”
 At this point, it should be noted that when someone is legally
 found to have a general bad reputation for some heresy and nothing is
 proven against him except this bad reputation, canonical purgation is
 imposed upon him, that is, that he should get some men– seven or
 ten or twenty or thirty depending upon whether his bad reputation is
 greater or smaller, and in a larger or smaller number of places of greater
 or lesser importance– who are of his status (estate). Hence, if it is a
 manunder religious vows who has the bad reputation, those who purge
 him of the crime for which he is defamed should also be men under
 religious vows, if it is a cleric, they should be clerics, if it is a soldier,
 soldiers. These compurgators are described as men Catholic in faith and
 proven in way of life, who know both his behavior and way of life, not
 so much in present times as in the past, as is stated in Extra, “Canonical
 Purgation,” Chapter “Inter sollicitudines.”
 If he is unwilling to purge himself, he should be excommunicated,
 and if he endures this excommunication for a year with an obdurate
 mind, then he should be condemned as a heretic according to Chapter 226D
 “Excommunicamus itaque” §“Qui autem.”
 If he decides to purge himself but fails in the purgation, that is, if
 he does not find to purge him compurgators of the same number and
 status as he was ordered to, he is considered convicted and in this way
 is condemned as a heretic, as is stated in Extra, “Heretics,” first Chapter
 “Excommunicamus”§“Adiicimus,”phrase“quinonse”374 and“Canonical
 Purgation,” “Cum dilectus.”
 It should also be noted at this point that when it says that the person
 with the bad reputation is compelled to purge himself with a group of
 three or four men of his estate, the estate referred to is understood in a
 general and not a specific sense. Hence, if a bishop is to be purged, it
 is not to be denied that even though it is a bishop who is to be purged,
 374 This provision appears to be misunderstood by Eymeric. The paragraph of the canon concerns
 an order that once or twice a year every bishop or archbishop should visit a parish where heretics
 are reputed to live and compel under oath either a few respectable men or the whole populace
 to bring to his notice any heretics known to them. The phrase cited here states only that the
 bishop should then summon the accused and if they do not purge themselves, or, if they do
 so and then relapse, they are to be punished according to the canon. The next sentence then
 states that those who refuse the oath are to be treated as heretics. This sentence is presumably
 what is being referred to here, but it concerns not those who fail in purgation but the would-be
 informants who refuse the bishop’s oath.
582
 The Hammer of Witches 226D–227B
 abbots and monastic priests should be admitted; the same applies to
 others (Title “Canonical Purgation,” “Quotiens”).
 The person with a bad reputation will purge himself in the following
 manner, as is gathered from Extra, “Canonical Purgation,” “Quotiens,”
 §“Porro” and Chapter “Accepimus.”
 As for the second.375
 227A
 227B
 When the deadline assigned to the person with the bad rep
utation for purging himself in the canonical manner approaches, the
 person to be purged will appear in person along with his compurgators
 before bishop and inquisitor376 in the place where he is known to have
 the bad reputation. The person with the bad reputation will hold his
 hand over a book containing the Gospels that has been set before him
 and will say the following. “I swear over these four Holy Gospels of
 God that such-and-such heresy”– he names it– “for which I have a
 bad reputation I have never held or believed or taught, nor do I now
 hold or believe it.” That is, he will deny under oath that for which he
 has a bad reputation, whatever it may be. When this has been done,
 the compurgators will set their hands on the same book containing the
 Gospels, and each will say the following. “And I swear on these Holy
 Gospels of God that I believe that he has sworn the truth.” In that case,
 he is purged in the manner prescribed by the Canon.
 It should also be noted that the person with the bad reputation is to
 be purged in the place where he is known to have the bad reputation. If
 he has a bad reputation in many places, he should be ordered to profess
 the Catholic Faith publicly in all those places and to make a public
 declaration of his loathing of the heresy for which he is known to have
 a bad reputation (Extra, “Canonical Purgation,” “Inter Sollicitudines”).
 The person who has purged himself in the canonical manner should
 not becavalier about it. For if, after the purgation, he falls into the heresy
 that he has previously purged, he is considered lapsed and as a relapsed
 person is handed over to the secular court according to the first Chapter
 “Excommunicamus,” §“Adiicimus,” phrase “Vel si post purgationem,” and
 Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Illos quoque.”(The procedure is different if
 he falls into a different heresy about which he did not previously purge
 himself according to the cited chapter.)
 375 The sense of this heading is not self-evident (in Eymeric it reads: “Formula for the canonical
 purgation to be carried out by someone with a bad reputation for heresy”). Presumably, what is
 meant is that the actual substance of the second method of passing sentence is about to follow.
 376 Most references to the participation of an inquisitor in the proceedings have been changed to
 “judge,” but sometimes the original version has been left in by accident.
Part III 227B–C
 583
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 21:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 2 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de secundo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-two: method three of passing
 sentence on a woman with a bad reputation who
 is to be exposed to questioning under torture
 METHODThreeofbringingtoanendandfinishingproceed
ings involving the Faith is when the person denounced for heresy, after a
 careful consideration of the merits of the proceedings with a good panel
 of experts, is found to be inconsistent or to have indications against him
 sufficient for questioning, that is, for him to be exposed to questioning
 under torture, so that if the person thus questioned concedes nothing,
 he is considered blameless and innocent. This is when the denounced
 person is not caught by his own confession or by evidence of the deed
 or the lawful production of witnesses, and there are no indications suffi
cient for such suspicion that he has toabjure heresy, but heisnonetheless
 inconsistent in his confessions or else there are indications sufficient for
 questioning under torture.
 Concerning such a person, the following procedure is to be observed.
 In such a situation, because the interlocutory sentence that is to be 227C
 passed is against the denounced person and not for him, it should be
 passed in conjunctionwiththeinquisitorandnotseparatelyfromhim377
 accordingtoChapter“Multorum.”Inparticular,ifhetenaciouslypersists
 in his denial and, despite the urging of upright men, is unwilling to
 confess the truth, a sentence that seems to savor of a definitive sentence
 will be passed in the manner of the following text.
 “We,(Name), by God’s mercy Bishop of Such-and-Such city (or378
 judge in the lands subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such), note,
 after a careful examination of the merits of the proceeding conducted
 by us against you, Such-and-Such of Such-and-Such place and of
 377 TheoriginaltextofEymericherereads,“bythebishopandinquisitorjointlyandnotseparately”;
 it is not clear if the omission of the reference to the bishop here is accidental or intentional.
 378 The use of “or” here suggests a violation of normal procedure, which dictates the co-operation
 of the bishop and inquisitor, as is correctly stated in 228A. But in Eymeric the present passage
 originally said, “and the inquisitor,” and in line with the regular modification carried out in
 adapting Eymeric this was replaced here (but inadvertently not in 228A) in order to allow for
 the possibility of a secular judge operating in place of the bishop (with the inquisitor entirely
 left out of the proceedings).
584
 The Hammer of Witches 227C–228A
 Such-and-Such diocese, that you are inconsistent in your confessions
 and that there are nonetheless many indications that are sufficient for
 exposing you to questioning under torture, and therefore, in order for
 the truth to be had from your own mouth and for you to cease from
 then on offending the ears of the judges, as an interlocutory measure
 wedeclare, judge and sentence that on the present day at such-and-such
 hour you should be subjected to questioning under torture.
 “This sentence was passed...”
 227D
 228A
 If the person to be questioned is found to be inconsistent and at the
 same time there are other indications sufficient for questioning under
 torture, both will be putinthesentenceinthewaysetoutintheprevious
 sentence. If, however, these two criteria do not coincide, but there is only
 one, that is inconsistency without other indications or other indications
 without inconsistency, it will be set down in the sentence as it is found.
 The sentence passed should be carried out promptly or it should be
 pretended that it will be. The judge should not be very eager to question
 someone under torture. Such questioning is inflicted only in default
 of other proofs, and for this reason he should search out other proofs.
 If, however, he does not find such proofs and holds it likely that the
 denounced person is guilty but is denying the truth through fear, then
 after the good methods that may be considered stratagems have been
 usedinthemeanwhile,andhisfriendshaveurgedhimtotellthetruth,379
 the judge should apply his industry to getting the truth from his mouth.
 He should not hurry through the case, since constant reflection amidst
 the misfortune of imprisonment and the repeated advice of upright men
 create an inclination to teach the truth. But if, after a suitable period
 of time, fittingly extended, has been given to the denounced person
 and he has been advised repeatedly, the bishop and judge believe in
 good faith, after considering everything, that the denounced person is
 denying the truth, they should question him under moderate torture,
 that is, without the shedding of blood, knowing that questioning under
 torture is misleading and ineffective. For some people are so soft in
 heart and crazed that under light torture they grant everything, even
 any lies at all. Others are so obstinate that however much they may be
 tormented,thetruthcannotbegotfromthem.Therearesomewhohave
 experienced questioning under torture on a different occasion, some of
 them enduring it better, because their arms are immediately pulled back
 and bent, while others are weakened and thus endure it less well.380
 There are also others, who have been affected by sorcery and make use
 379 For these procedures, see 211C–212A.
 380 See 215A for a clearer presentation of this thought.
Part III 228A–C
 585
 of devices for sorcery during the questioning.381 These people would
 die before they confessed anything, since they are rendered practically
 incapable of sensation. Hence, in using torture it is necessary to act with
 the greatest prudence and to pay the greatest attention possible to the
 condition of the person to be questioned in this way.
 Whenthesentencehasbeenpassed,theassistantsshouldpromptlyget
 themselves ready for questioning the denounced person under torture,
 andwhiletheyaredoingso,thebishop(orjudge)should,bothinhisown
 person and through other good men who are zealots for the Faith, urge 228B
 the person to be questioned to make a free confession, even promising
 to spare his life if necessary, as was discussed above.382 But if even this
 method cannot bring him to feel terror or tell the truth, they will be
 able to assign a second or third day for continuing the torture, but not
 for repeating it, because torture ought not to be repeated except when
 new indications against him turn up, in which case they can repeat
 it. Continuation, on the other hand, is not prohibited.383 They will,
 therefore, speak as follows.
 “Andwe,theaforementioned (Name), bishop, and (Name), judge,”
if one is present– “assign to you, Such-and-Such, such-and-such day
 for continuing the questioning under torture, in order for the truth
 to be wrenched from your mouth.” The whole should be put into the
 protocol.
 Before the time assigned to himtheyshould,bothintheirownperson
 and through other respectable men, urge him to confess the truth. But
 if he is unwilling to confess, on the day assigned it will be possible for
 the questioning under torture to be continued. He should in this way
 be questioned with the same or other kinds of tortures, more strongly
 or lightly depending on the severity of the sins. The judges will be able
 to use many lawful stratagems both in words and deeds in order for the
 truth to be had. These precautions are taught more by experience and
 practice in the differing circumstances of various cases rather than by
 someone else’s art or training.
 When, after he has been suitably questioned and exposed to torture,
 heis unwilling to reveal the truth, he should not be tormented further 228C
 but should be set free.384 If, however, he persists in the confession and
 381 This reference to sorcery causing silence under torture is in Eymeric, which shows that the
 notion had a long pedigree and was not an innovation on the part of Institoris.
 382 212A–C.
 383 Cf. the parallel passage in 212D.
 384 At this point, there is a significant omission from Eymeric, who adds (481 2C), “And if he asks
 the judges that the matter be finished with a sentence, they will not be able to deny this to him.
 In that case, the sentence will be passed that regarding such-and-such crime for which he has
586
 The Hammer of Witches 228C–D
 reveals the truth, confessing his own sin and asking the Church for
 forgiveness, then like a person caught in heresy by his own confession
 but repentant according to Chapter “Ad abolendam,” §“Praesenti,” he
 should make an abjuration, and as the sentence he should be publicly
 condemned as one so caught in the manner in which those caught in
 heresybytheirownconfessionarecondemned,aswillbediscussedbelow
 on the topic of Method Eight385 of dealing with people caught like this
 (see that section).
 Whenhereveals the truth and is not repentant, persisting obstinately
 in heresy, he will be condemned according to Chapter “Ad abolendam”
 §“Praesenti,” and after a suitable period of time has been given to him
 and he has been fittingly advised, he will be handed over to the secular
 armto bestricken with the death penalty, in the way that is stated below
 on the topic of Method Ten.386 If he has relapsed, he will be condemned
 by the method that will be discussed on the topic of Method Eleven387
 of bringing an end to a proceedings (see that section).
 228D
 At this point it should be quite carefully noted that while some
times the person to be questioned under torture confesses nothing
 against himself before the questioning and nothing is proven because of
 which he can or should abjure heresy or be condemned for it (these are
 the people who form the subject of discussion here and were just men
tioned), at other times the denounced person is caught in heresy or else
 there are other indications proven against him that result in his having
 to make an abjuration on the grounds of being lightly or vehemently
 suspected of heresy but that do not result in his being questioned under
 torture. But if he goes on denying some things that are not proven, but
 there are indications sufficient for questioning under torture, and when
 he is questioned under torture for these matters, he confesses nothing
 because of the torture, nonetheless she388 should not be absolved accord
ing to Method One. Instead, the proceedings should be conducted in
 accordance with the matters proven against her. He (if a man)389 will
 make an abjuration as a person either suspected or caught, according to
 been denounced, after a careful consideration of the merits of the proceedings, it is found that
 nothing has been proven lawfully against him, as was stated in Method 1 of bringing an end to
 and finishing the proceedings, which should be looked at.”
 385 This cross reference is in Eymeric. See Q. 27 (236B–238A).
 386 This cross reference is in Eymeric. See Q. 29 (240C–241C).
 387 This cross reference is in Eymeric. See Q. 30 (241C–242C).
 388 At this point the generalizing masculine used in Eymeric is replaced by the feminine. The
 change is just as abrupt in the Latin as here in the English.
 389 This parenthesis is a clumsy method of indicating the return to the generalizing masculine of
 the original text.
Part III 228D–229B
 587
 thedictateofthemeritsoftheproceedings.If,ontheotherhand,because
 of the torture he makes a confession about the things that resulted in his
 being tortured or about some of them, then he will make an abjuration
 of one or the other, and sentence is to be passed against him for one or
 the other.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 22:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 3 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de tertio modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-three: method four of passing
 sentence on a denounced woman who is
 lightly suspected
 METHOD Four of bringingtoanendandfinishing proceed
ings involving the Faith is when the person denounced for heresy, after 229A
 a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings with a good panel
 of legal experts, is found to be only lightly suspected of heresy. This is
 when the person denounced for heresy is not caught by his own confes
sion or by evidence of the deed or by the lawful production of witnesses,
 and there are otherwise no strong (vehement) indications against him
 regarding that form of heresy but ones judged by the panel to be only
 moderateandlightandsuchthatbecauseofthemheshould,assomeone
 lightly suspected of heresy, abjure as such a person the heresy for which
 he has been denounced. If such a person relapses, he is not punished
 with the penalty appropriate for the relapsed, although he would in that
 case have to be punished more severely than would be the case if he
 had not previously made the abjuration according to the beginning of
 Chapter “Accusatus”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”).
 Concerning such a person the following procedure is to be followed.
 If he is publicly considered suspect, he will make the abjuration publicly
 in a church in the following manner.
 “I, Such-and-Such, of Such-and-Such diocese, inhabitant of Such
and-Such city (or place), have been placed in judgment before you, the
 Lord Bishop of Such-and-Such city, and touching with my own hands
 theSacrosanctGospelsthathavebeensetbeforeme,IswearthatIbelieve
 in heart and profess by mouth the Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Faith
 that the Sacrosanct Roman Church believes, confesses, preaches and 229B
 follows.
588
 The Hammer of Witches 229B–C
 “Also, I swear that I believe in heart and profess by mouth that the
 Lord Jesus Christ, along with all the Saints, abhors the most wretched
 Heresy of Sorceresses, and that all those who follow or adhere to it will
 be tormented with eternal flames along with the Devil and his angels,390
 unless they come to their senses and are reconciled to the Holy Church
 through penance.391
 “Consequently, I abjure, renounce and retract that heresy of which
 you, my Lords Bishop and official, hold me suspect, namely that I
 maintained familiarity with sorceresses, ignorantly defended their error,
 hated the inquisitors, and the persecutors of the sorceresses, or that I did
 not reveal their crimes.392
 “Also, I swear that I never believed or believe this heresy, or adhered
 or adhere to it, or will ever believe or adhere to it, or taught it or intend
 to teach it.
 229C
 “If I ever do commit any of these acts, which God forbid, I submit
 myself readily to the penalties of the law appropriate for one who makes
 such an abjuration, being prepared to endure every kind of penance
 which, in light of these acts or words of mine for which you justly
 consider me suspect, you will wish to enjoin upon me. I swear that I
 will carry out the penance to the best of my abilities and will in no way
 obstruct it.
 “So help me God and these Sacrosanct Gospels!”
 This abjuration should be performed in the vernacular, so that it can
 be understood by everyone. When it is finished, the judge (if present)
 or official can tell him publicly in the vernacular the following words or
 ones of similar meaning.
 “Myson(daughter), as for the suspicion which we had about you and
 for which you not unreasonably made an abjuration and by abjuring
 390 I.e., demons, who are fallen angels.
 391 In Eymeric, the abjuror has to state some article of Catholic dogma that he is suspecting of
 rejecting, and the example given is the belief that Jesus and his disciples held property in
 common in this world and were able to give away, sell and alienate it. (Belief in the absolute
 poverty of Jesus and the disciples was a tenet of the “spiritual” Franciscans, for which they
 were condemned as heretics under John XXII; see n. 64). In the Memorandum these provisions
 are changed to have the abjurors state that “all heretics who have different beliefs about the
 articles of the Faith and about the Sacraments of the Church, unless they come to their senses,
 are damned eternally” (477). The abjuror then specifically abjures the Heresy of Sorceresses,
 “which is harmful to the Catholic Faith, humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth,
 along with its other most foul and unspeakable works.”
 392 At this point in Eymeric, the abjuror simply repeats the article about the poverty of Jesus and
 the disciples. For Institoris’s run-in with a suspected sorceress in Innsbruck who rejected his
 teachings on the matter (and who may well be the inspiration for this form of abjuration), see
 Pt. ii n. 433.
Part III 229C–D
 589
 purged yourself, in future you should make sure for your own good
 that you do not fall into this heresy which you have abjured. If you
 repent, you will not be turned over to the secular arm, since you made
 the abjuration as one suspected lightly and not vehemently, but in that
 case you will be punished much more strongly than would be the case
 if you had not made the abjuration, and then you will be considered to
 be a vehemently suspected woman rather than a moderately suspected
 man.393 Then, in the situation where you made an abjuration as such
 a person and will again lapse into sin, you will be punished with the
 penalty appropriate for those who have relapsed and you will be turned
 over without mercy to the secular court to be stricken394 with the death
 penalty.”
 If he makes the abjuration in secret in the bishop’s hall or in the
 judge’s, that is, when the act is not done in public, he will make the
 abjuration in a similar manner.395
 When the things are completed, the sentence will be passed in the
 following manner.
 “We,by God’s mercy BishopofSuch-and-Such city (or judge– if 229D
 he is present– in the lands subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such),
 note that after seeing and carefully considering the merits of the
 proceedings conducted by us against you, Such-and-Such, who have
 been denounced to us for heretical depravity, we find that you have
 committed such-and-such and such-and-such acts”– these should
 belisted–“whichrenderyoulightlysuspectedofheresy.Becauseofthem
 we rightly hold you to be such and make you, as someone lightly sus
pected of the aforementioned stain, abjure that heresy. In order that the
 crimes committed by you should not remain unpunished and in order
 that you should be made more cautious in future, on the mature and
 considered advice ofthepanelofmanygreatlegalexpertsandmenunder
 religious vows that was convened regarding and concerning these mat
ters, and having before our eyes God alone and the irrefutable Truth of
 the HolyCatholicFaithandhavingplacedtheSacrosanctGospelsbefore
 393 Confusingly, at the end of this sentence one adjective (“vehemently suspected”) is converted
 to the feminine while the other (“moderately suspected”) is left in the generalizing masculine
 used in Eymeric, and the translation reflects this imperfect adaptation.
 394 Up to this point the generalizing masculine has been retained from the original, but all of a
 sudden this adjectival form becomes feminine.
 395 The adaptation of the source material makes little sense here, in that Eymeric distinguished
 between a secret abjuration in the bishop’s palace and one in the chamber of the inquisitor. The
 reference to an inquisitor has been changed to one mentioning a secular judge, but no secular
 judge passes a sentence that the accused should make an abjuration (in secret or otherwise)!
590
 The Hammer of Witches 229D–230B
 230A
 230B
 us, in order that our judgment may come forth from the face of God
 and that our eyes may see only fairness, sitting before the tribunal in the
 manner of judges passing judgment, we condemn you, Such-and-Such,
 who are placed in judgment before us, and sentence you, or rather
 sentence you to penance, in the following manner. From now on you
 should never knowingly have, associate with, defend by words, read or
 hold such-and-such396 and you should not then” and so on (the crimes
 for whichshewasconsideredsuspected of this heretical depravity should
 be listed).
 “This sentence (or sentence to penance) was passed...”
 The notary should make sure that he writes down in the protocol
 that this abjuration was made by someone considered lightly and not
 vehemently suspected of heresy. Otherwise, there could be great danger.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 23:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 4 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de quarto modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-four: method five of sentencing
 a woman vehemently suspected
 METHOD Five of bringing an end to and finishing proceed
ings involving the Faith is when the woman denounced for heresy, after
 a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings with a good
 panel of legal experts, is found to be vehemently suspected of heresy.
 This is when the woman denounced for heretical depravity is not found
 to be legally caught by her own confession or by evidence of the fact
 or by the lawful production of witnesses, but there are great and seri
ous indications proven against her, ones that are judged by the panel
 to be such that they render her vehemently suspected of heretical
 depravity.397
 Concerning such a person, the following procedure is to be followed.
 He ought to abjure this heretical depravity as someone suspected of
 such heresy, so that if he later relapses, he is punished with the penalty
 396 This clause has been garbled through clumsy adaptation of Eymeric, who wrote, “read or have
 (hold) such-and-such book.” An attempt has been made here to convert the phrase into a
 reference to association with heretics (“associate with, defend by words”), but while the word
 “book” is omitted, the verbs that went with it have been left in.
 397 In this paragraph alone the many generalizing masculine adjectives used in the original text to
 describe the accused are made feminine. The masculine is retained in the rest of the section.
Part III 230B–C
 591
 appropriate for therelapsed.Thatis,hewillbehandedovertothesecular
 arm to be stricken with the death penalty according to the beginning
 of Chapter “Accusatus”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”). He will make a public
 or private abjuration depending on whether he is publicly or privately
 considered suspect and whether among a greater or lesser number of
 people and whether they are of great or light importance, as was just
 stated398 concerning the person who was lightly suspected of heresy, and
 he has to abjure heresy as such a person.
 The method of making arrangements for the abjuration is the fol
lowing. When the Sunday for making the abjuration and for hearing
 the imposition of sentence (penance) upon the person who is to make
 the abjuration approaches, the preacher399 will make a general sermon.
 After this is done, the acts for which the person to make the abjuration is
 convicted, and the others as a result of which he is vehemently suspected
 of heresy, should be read in public by the notary or a cleric. Afterwards,
 the judge or the official will say to him, “Oyez! On the basis of the
 acts that have been read out here, you are vehemently suspected of this
 heresy in our eyes, and therefore it is necessary for you to purge yourself 230C
 and to abjure this heresy.” Then, there will be placed before the per
son to make the abjuration a book containing the Gospels, and he will
 place a hand over it. If he knows how to read proficiently, the following
 abjuration will be handed to him in writing and he will read it before
 the entire congregation. If he does not know how to read proficiently,
 the notary should read the text at a deliberate pace and the person to
 make the abjuration will repeat it in a loud and comprehensible voice in
 the following manner. The notary or cleric will say, “I, Such-and-Such
 from Such-and-Such place,” and the other will repeat it verbatim; the
 one will say, “am placed in judgment” and the other will repeat verbatim
 (in the vernacular); and so on until the abjuration is finished. He will
 make the abjuration according to the following text.
 “I, Such-and-Such fromSuch-and-Suchplace,ofSuch-and-Suchdio
cese, have been in person placed in judgment before the Lord Bishop
 of Such-and-Such city and Lord Such-and-Such, the judge in the lands
 subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such, and touching bodily with
 my own hands the Sacrosanct Gospels that have been placed in my
 presence, I swear that I believe in heart and profess by mouth the Holy,
 398 229A, C.
 399 Eymeric indicates that this sermon would be made by the inquisitor who is conducting the
 inquisition with the bishop, but since the role of the inquisitor is being eliminated here, the
 person who gives the sermon is changed vaguely into a “preacher.”
230D
 592
 The Hammer of Witches 230C–231A
 Catholic and Apostolic Faith that the Apostolic Roman Church teaches,
 professes, preaches, and holds.
 “Also, I swear that I believe in heart and profess by mouth that” and
 so on.
 The Catholic article whose violation causes him to be vehemently
 suspected should be expounded. For instance, if he is suspected of the
 HeresyofSorceresses,thetextwillbethefollowing.“IswearthatIbelieve
 that not only will simple heretics or schismatics be tormented with
 eternal flames, but above all those tainted with the Heresy of Sorceresses,
 whorenounce to demonsthe Faith that they received in the Sacred Font
 of Baptism and engage in the Devil’s disgusting acts in order to fulfill
 their base desires, inflicting injuries on humans, domestic animals and
 the fruits of the earth.400
 “Consequently, I abjure, renounce and retract that heresy, or rather
 breach of the Faith, that falsely and mendaciously claims that there is no
 sorceress on earth and that no one should believe that they can inflict
 injuries with thehelpofdemons,sincethiskindoflackofFaithexplicitly
 contradicts, as I now realize, the determination of Holy Mother Church
 and of all the Catholic Doctors and the laws of the Empire, which have
 decreed that such women should be burned up.401
 231A
 “Also, I swear that I never believed”– add “obstinately402”– “in this
 heresy and that I do not believe in it now and will not believe it, and
 that I do not adhere to it at present or intend to, and that I did not teach
 it and do not intend to do so and will not do so.
 “Also, I swear and promise that such-and-such and such-and-such
 acts”– they should be stated– “because of which you consider me
 vehemently suspected of heresy of this kind, I will never do or see it to
 that they are done.
 400 This abjuration about the Heresy of Sorceresses has been inserted in place of the example used
 in Eymeric, which concerned the “procession of the Holy Spirit from the Father and the Son.”
 Thisrefers tooneofthetwomajordisagreementsbetweentheCatholicandOrthodoxChurches
 (the other being the papal primacy). In the sixth century, the phrase filioque was inserted into
 the Nicene Creed in the West (thereby asserting that the Holy Spirit proceeded from the Son
 as well as the Father), and while this addition came to be accepted as orthodox in the Catholic
 Church, it was rejected in the East. The division between Eastern and Western Christianity
 became permanent with the schism of ad 1054, after which the Catholic Church regarded the
 Orthodox as schismatic (a schism signifies a withdrawal from the theoretically universal church
 that is motivated by adherence to heresy). A trace of this reference in the original remains here
 in the mention of “schismatics.”
 401 Once again, the theory of sorcery propounded here in the text is raised to the status of an
 indisputable article of the Catholic faith.
 402 This phrase is inserted into the original text by Institoris.
Part III 231A–B
 593
 “If I do commit any of these acts in the future, which God forbid,
 I submit myself readily to the penalties appropriate under the law for
 those who have relapsed, being ready to undergo every kind of penance
 that, in light of the acts and words of mine for which you consider me
 vehemently suspected of this heresy, you will decide to impose upon me.
 I swear and promise to carry it out to the best of my abilities and in no
 way to obstruct it.
 “So help me God and these Sacrosanct Gospels!”
 This abjuration should be performed in the vernacular, so that it may
 be understood by everyone, unless it is done only before ecclesiastical
 persons who understand the Latin language proficiently. If, on the other
 hand, he makes the abjuration privately, that is, in the palace of the
 bishop or in his hall, that is, when the act is not performed in public,
 he will make the abjuration in a similar manner.
 When this abjuration is complete, the judge will advise him, as 231B
 stated above,403 that he should not, by relapsing, incur the penalty for
 the relapsed.
 The notary should make sure that he writes down in the record how
 “such-and-such abjuration was made by Such-and-Such as by someone
 vehemently suspected of heresy,” the purpose being that if he relapses, it
 would be known how he should be punished, because it would be with
 the penalty appropriate for the relapsed.
 When these things are completed, the sentence (penance) will be
 passed in the following manner.
 “We, (Name), Bishop of Such-and-Such city, and”– if present
“Brother404 (Name), specifically delegated by the Holy Apostolic See
 as the inquisitor of heretical depravity in the lands subject to the rule
 of Lord Such-and-Such, note that you, Such-and-Such from Such-and
SuchplaceandofSuch-and-Suchdiocese,committed,asislegallyappar
ent to us from the careful examination of the merits of the proceedings,
 such-and-such and such-and-such acts, because of which we rightly
 consider you to be vehemently suspected of such-and-such heresy, so
 that we have, by the advice of our great panel of legal experts and at
 the urging of justice, made you make an abjuration as someone sus
pected in this way. In order that you should be made more cautious
 for the future, that you should not be rendered more prone to perform
 403 229C.
 404 In this instance, the change of Eymeric’s reference to an inquisitor into a reference to a judge
 (or judges), which is regularly made elsewhere, has been inadvertently neglected.
231C
 594
 The Hammer of Witches 231B–D
 similar acts and that the crimes should not remain unpunished, so that
 you may serve as an example to other criminals, by the mature and
 well-considered advice of the panel that was convened regarding and
 concerning these matters and that consisted of many great legal experts
 in lawandofmasters(doctors)405 inthefacultyoftheology,sittingbefore
 the tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment, having before
 our eyes only God and the truth of the Holy, Catholic and Apostolic
 Faith and with the Sacrosanct Gospels placed before us, in order that
 our judgment may come forth from the face of God, we condemn in
 the form that follows, or rather sentence to penance, you, Such-and
Such, who are in person placed here in our presence. You should not
 hereafterpresumetodoorsayorteachsuch-and-suchandsuch-and-such
 things.” The things he is convicted of having committed that resulted
 in him being considered vehemently suspected of this heresy should be
 set down along with any other things for which, if he commits them, he
 would easily incur relapse. Other injunctions should be imposed upon
 him as the circumstances of the case demand and dictate, such as that
 he should never knowingly maintain such-and-such practices and that
 he should not receive those whom he knows he has abjured, and the
 like.
 “This sentence was passed...”
 231D
 It should be noted that those suspected of heresy and not caught,
 whether they are suspected vehemently or lightly, should not receive
 life imprisonment (immuration),406 because this is the penalty for those
 whowerehereticsandafterwardsrepented,asis madeclearinthesecond
 Chapter “Excommunicamus” (Liber Sextus, “Heretics”), but they can,
 because of the crimes for which they are considered suspect, be relegated
 to prison for a fixed period and afterwards, as is thought fit, this may
 be dispensed with according to Chapter “Ut commissi” (Liber Sextus,
 “Heretics”).
 Thosesuspectedinthiswayshouldnotbemarkedoutwithcrosses.407
 For crosses are the sign of a repentant heretic, but those who were
 suspected were not considered heretics, and so should not be marked
 405 The title for the higher degree in theology varied from university to university.
 406 While imprisonment is not considered unusual as a form of punishment in the modern world,
 in the Middle Ages is was exclusively a form of ecclesiastic penalty. The sentence of immuration
 (literally, “walling in”) was not intended as a form of punishment per se but was meant to isolate
 the penitent from society and compel him to think about (and repent for) his crimes against
 God (and the church).
 407 I.e., forced to wear clothing with a cross sewn onto it as a public mark of being a convicted
 heretic (for this procedure, see 234B).
Part III 231D–232B
 595
 out in this way. It can, however, be enjoined upon them that they should
 stand on specific solemn days at the doors of specific churches or at the
 altar, when the Rites of the Mass are celebrated, holding in their hands a
 burning candle of a specific weight, or that they should go on pilgrimage
 and the like, as circumstances of the case require and demand.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 24:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 5 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de quinto modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-five: method six of passing
 sentence on a denounced woman who is violently
 suspected
 METHOD Six of bringing an end to proceedings involving 232A
 the Faith is when the person denounced for heretical depravity, after a
 careful examination of the merits of the proceedings with a good panel
 of legal experts, is found to be violently suspected of heresy. This is
 whenthedenouncedpersonis not foundtobelegally caught by his own
 confession or by evidence of the deed or by the lawful production of
 witnesses, but there are indications that are not merely light or vehement
 but very strong and very violent ones that rightly render the denounced
 person violently suspected of this heresy and because of which such
 a person ought to be judged as someone violently suspected of this
 heresy.
 In order for this method to be more clearly understood, let us give
 illustrations concerning both simple heresy and the Heresy of Sorcer
esses. In simple heresy, this would be the case when the denounced
 person is not found to be legally caught by his own confession and so
 on as above, but because of something that he said or did. For instance,
 whenafterbeingsummonedinacasenotinvolvingtheFaithheendured
 excommunicationforayearormore,heisnowsuspectedlightlyofheresy
 because this does not lack a disconcerting suggestion of heretical deprav
ity (“Penalties,” Chapter “Gravem”). If, when summoned to give answer
 concerning the Faith, he does not appear but contumaciously refuses 232B
 to do so, he is for this reason excommunicated. In this case, he becomes
 vehemently suspected of heresy, since the light suspicion turns into a
 vehement one. If he endures such excommunication for a year with an
 obstinate frame of mind, then he becomes violently suspected, since the
596
 The Hammer of Witches 232B–C
 vehement suspicion turns into a violent one against which no defense is
 admitted. Indeed, from then on such a person is to be condemned as a
 heretic, as is explained in Chapter “Cum contumacia”(Liber Sextus) and
 the notes on that passage.
 232C
 As for the Heresy of Sorceresses an illustration of violent suspicion
 is provided when she said or did some things that are practiced by
 sorceresses whentheywishtoaffectsomeonewithsorcery.Itisacommon
 practice that they have to make themselves manifest with threatening
 words ordeedsthroughsight or touch. (Thethree purposes408 of this are
 that thesininjudgesshouldbeaggravated,thatthesimplefolkshouldbe
 the more easily led astray, and that God should be further offended and
 give them greater ability to act with savagery against humans.) Hence,
 she becomes a violently suspected sorceress when she said threatening
 words (“I will do to you things you will soon feel” or words of similar
 meaning) and afterwards some effect ensued in the person threatened
 or someone else. In this case, the suspicion under which she falls is not
 light, as is the case with those who were suspected because of the close
 association they had with sorceresses or who wished to woo someone
 to irregular love (see above on the topic of the three kinds of suspicion,
 namely light, vehement and violent).
 Now we should look at the kind of procedure that should be fol
lowed with such people. Regarding someone violently suspected in sim
ple heresy, the following procedure is followed. He409 may not in fact be
 a heretic in that he has no error in his mind and no obstinacy in his will
 about it, as the Archdeacon notes on the topic of the cited chapter, but
 he is still to be condemned as a heretic because of the violent suspicion,
 against which no proof is admitted.
 This is how she is condemned as a heretic. If she does not wish
 to veer back and abjure heresy and render worthy satisfaction, she is
 handed over to the secular arm to be stricken with the appropriate
 penalty according to Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Praesenti.” If she is
 willing and agrees, she abjures heresy effectively and is relegated to
 life imprisonment according to the second Chapter “Excommunicamus”
 (“Heretics”).
 The treatment for the person who is violently suspected of heresy in
 this way is similar.
 The same method would have to be followed in the case of someone
 violently suspected of the Heresy of Sorceresses, though the manner
 408 I.e., on the part of the demons, who compel the sorceresses to behave in this way.
 409 The text returns to the generalizing masculine used in Eymeric.
Part III 232D–233A
 597
 of proceeding is milder. It should be noted that if she persists in her 232D
 denial, claiming, as they do, that she did not utter those words in such
 a spirit but as a result of the vehement emotion to which women are
 subject, so that the judge does not think that he can sentence her to
 the flames despite the violent suspicion, then the judge should conduct
 an inquisition while she is kept in prison, and have an announcement
 issued asking whether she had had the finger pointed at her for similar
 acts in the past, and if she did, whether she had a general bad reputation
 for this heresy. On this basis he can advance the proceedings, so that she
 should above all be exposed to questioning under torture. If indications
 about this heresy or the sorcery of silence turn up, for instance, if she
 does not shed tears and is instead found to be impervious to the torture
 in that after the torture she is quickly restored to full strength,410 then he
 should conduct the proceedings with the stratagems discussed above,411
 where similar matters are treated.
 In a situation where everything fails, he should note that if she com
mitted similar acts in the past, then she should not by any means be
 released, but should be relegated for at least a year to the miseries of
 prison and its torments, and should be examined very often, especially
 on the more holy days. If in addition she had a bad reputation, the
 judge could, according to the discussion above412 concerning simple
 heresy, sentence her to be burned, especially because of the increased
 number of witnesses and because of her having quite often had the fin
ger pointed at her in connection with similar acts or with other acts of
 sorcery, but nonetheless, since he wishes to conduct the proceedings in 233A
 a pious manner, heshould enjoin canonical purgation upon her. That is,
 she shouldgettwentyorthirtycompurgators,andheshouldconductthe
 proceedings according to the discussion on the topic of Method Two413
 of passing sentence (indicating to her that if she fails in the purgation,
 then she will be sentenced to the flames as a guilty person). This is how
 the judge can conduct the proceedings.
 In a situation where she has purged herself, she should then make
 an abjuration of all heresy subject to the penalty for the relapsed and
 perpetual penance in the manner that follows on the topic of phrasing
 the sentence. The method of making arrangements for the abjuration
 is the same as was discussed on the topics of the preceding Methods
 410 Note the use of “strength” instead of “health” as a means of emphasizing the supposed power
 of the accused sorceress.
 411 213A–216A.
 412 233B.
 413 Q.21 (225D–227B).
598
 The Hammer of Witches 233A–B
 Four414 and Five415 of bringing an end to proceedings involving the
 Faith.
 Note also that in all the following methods of passing sentence, when
 the judges wish to conduct the proceeding in a pious manner, they could
 do so in the manner just mentioned, but because secular judges make
 use of various methods of their own, conducting their proceedings in a
 way that is severe and not always fair,416 no inflexible rule and method
 can be assigned to them in the way that it can be to the ecclesiastical
 judge, who can receive the abjuration subject to penance for life in the
 following manner.
 233B
 “I, Such-and-Such from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such
 diocese, havebeenplacedinpersonbeforemyLords,theBishopofSuch
and-Such city and the judges, and bodily touching with my own hands
 theSacrosanctGospelsthathavebeensetbeforeme,IswearthatIbelieve
 in heart and profess by mouth the Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Faith
 that the Sacrosanct Roman Church holds, professes, believes, preaches
 and teaches, and I consequently abjure every heresy that rears up against
 the Holy,RomanandApostolicChurch,andrenounceandretractthem,
 whatever sect or error it belongs to.
 “Also,417 I swear and promise that such-and-such and such-and-such
 acts or words on my part”– they should be listed– “because of which
 and on the basis of my guilt you consider me violently suspected of this
 heresy, I will from now on never do or say or have them done.
 “Also, I swear and promise that every kind of penance that you will
 wish to impose upon me for the foregoing I will carry out to the best of
 my abilities and will not obstruct in any regard.
 “So help me God and these Holy Gospels!
 “If I act contrary to the abjurations that I have made, which God
 forbid, from then on I, at the present time with reference to the future,
 414 Q. 23 (228D–230A).
 415 Q. 24 (230A–231D).
 416 In the Nuremberg Handbook (12r) Institoris compares his method of convicting on the basis
 of conjecture favorably to the extraction of a confession after the fashion of secular courts (he
 cites the example of a man whose execution on the basis of a forced confession took place on
 the same day that the alleged victim returned to the town where he had disappeared). As an
 example of excessive torture he cites (8v) the placement of “glowing shoes” (i.e., metal shoes
 heated to the point of glowing) on the feet.
 417 This formula of abjuration and the immediately following note about the scribe’s procedure are
 directly afterwards repeated in a somewhat varying form. Both versions make exactly the same
 substantial omissions from the original source (Eymeric), but while the text retained in the
 second version is practically identical to the original, the first version is somewhat abbreviated.
 Perhaps there was some uncertainty as to how to handle the original, and after two alternative
 versions were drawn up, both inadvertently wound up in the text.
Part III 233B–D
 599
 bind and obligate myself to the penalties appropriate under the law for
 the relapsed, so that I will be stricken with them.”
 The notary should make sure that he writes in the records that this
 abjuration was made by someone suspected violently of heresy, so that
 if he is later proven to have relapsed, he will then be judged to be such
 and be handed over to the secular arm.
 “I,418 Such-and-Such from Such-and-Such place, of Such-and-Such
 diocese, have been placed in person before you, my Lords, Such-and- 233C
 Such, the Bishop of Such-and-Such city, and the judges in the lands
 of Lord Such-and-Such, and touching bodily with my own hands the
 Sacrosanct Gospels that have been set before me, I swear that I believe in
 heart and profess by mouth the Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Faith that
 the Sacrosanct Roman Church holds, professes, believes, preaches and
 teaches, and I consequently abjure, renounce and retract every heresy
 thatrearsupagainsttheHoly,RomanandApostolicChurch,ofwhatever
 sect or error it is.
 “Also, I swearandpromisethatsuch-and-suchandsuch-and-suchacts
 or words on my part”– they should be listed– “because of which and
 on the basis of my instance of guilt you consider me violently suspected
 of this heresy, I will from now on never do or teach or have them
 done.
 “Also, I swear and promise that every kind of penance that you will
 wish to impose upon me for the foregoing I will carry out to the best of
 my abilities and will not obstruct in any regard.
 “So help me God and these Holy Gospels!
 “If I act contrary to the abjurations or oaths that I have made, which
 Godforbid, I, in the present time with reference to the future, bind and
 obligate myself to the penalties of the law appropriate for the relapsed,
 so I will be stricken with them, when it is legally demonstrated that I
 acted to the contrary.”
 The notary should make sure that he writes in the records that this
 abjuration wasmade by Such-and-Such as someone suspected violently 233D
 of heresy, so that if it419 is later proven, he will be judged to be a relapsed
 person who had previously made an abjuration, and as such will be
 handed over to the secular arm.
 When these steps are finished, the judge should absolve him
 of the sentence of excommunication for the heresy into which he was
 418 Here the second version of the preceding text begins.
 419 I.e., relapse.
600
 The Hammer of Witches 233D–234A
 considered violently suspected of having fallen, as was the case with the
 aforementioned heresies.420 When a heretic has returned421 and makes
 an abjuration, he should be absolved of the sentence of excommuni
cation (because every heretic is excommunicate according to the first
 and second Chapters “Excommunicamus” and also the beginning of the
 Chapter“Adabolendam),andthiswouldalsobethecasewiththeperson
 being discussed here, since as a person to be condemned as a heretic, as
 was discussed before,422 he is to be absolved of the sentence of excom
munication after he makes the abjuration.
 When the abjuration has been made, the sentence or sentence to
 penance will be made in the manner of the following text.
 “We, (Name), bishop of Such-and-Such city and”– if present
“Such-and-Such,thejudgeofLordSuch-and-Such,notethatyou,Such
and-Such, from Such-and-Such place, of Such-and-Such diocese, were
 denounced to us regarding such-and-such and such-and-such matters
 concerning the Holy Faith”– these should be listed– “and that we have
 conducted proceedings to inform ourselves of these matters, as justice
 urged, and after carefully examining the merits of the proceedings and
 all the transactions and dealings in the present case, we find that you
 have committed such-and-such and such-and-such,”– these should be
 listed– “and for this reason and not unreasonably consider you violently
 suspected of such-and-such heresy”– these should be listed. “Hence,
 234A
 we have made you, as someone suspected in this way, make a general
 and public abjuration of every heresy, as the sanction of the Canon
 orders us. According to the same regulations of the Canon, every such
 person should becondemnedasaheretic,andyou,inadherencetosaner
 council, havereturnedtotheembraceofHolyMotherChurchandmade
 an abjuration of all heretical depravity”– as stated before– “and for this
 reason we have absolved you of the sentence of excommunication to
 which you were justly held to be bound as being culpably liable to the
 Church, provided that you have returned to the Unity of the Church
 with a true heart and unfeigned faith. Therefore, you are from now
 on counted among the penitent, the Sacrosanct Church receiving you
 420 This sentence is not very clearly written in Eymeric, and the insertion of “just as” (sicut),
 presumably to make sense of it, has not improved matters. The original was probably meant to
 signify, “ . . . the sentence of excommunication by which he was considered violently suspected
 of having fallen into the aforementioned heresies,” but the defective composition and the
 addition of sicut make the interpretation given to it here uncertain.
 421 I.e., to the church.
 422 The cross reference is from Eymeric; presumably 224B–C is meant.
Part III 234A–C
 601
 at present into the embrace of mercy. But it is quite inappropriate to
 let offences against God pass by unpunished with conniving eyes while
 punishinginjuries to men,sinceitisamoreseriousmattertoharmGod’s
 majesty than a human one, and therefore, in order that your crimes
 should not serve as an encouragement to others to commit wrong, and
 in order that you will be made more cautious in future and rendered less
 prone later to commit these or similar acts, so that in the future world
 you suffer more lightly, we, the aforementioned bishop and judge, 234B
 sitting before the tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment
 and having before our eyes God alone and the indisputable truth of the
 Holy Faith, in order that our judgment should come forth from the face
 of God and our eyes should see fairness, have convened regarding and
 concerning these matters a sane and mature panel of experts, and by our
 sentence as follows we condemn or sentence to penance you, Such-and
Such, who are placed in person in our presence on this day and hour
 previously assigned to you. First, you should immediately place over all
 the clothes that you are wearing a dark garment made in the fashion
 of a monk’s scapular cloak,423 without head cover and having in front
 and back crosses made of saffron-colored cloth that are three palms long
 and two wide. This garment you will have to wear over all your other
 garments for such-and-such period of time,” which should be specified:
 one or two years, or more or less, as dictated by the criminal’s guilt. “In
 any case, in addition to this garment and the crosses, you should stand at
 the entrance to such-and-such church at such-and-such time for such
and-such length of time, namely on the four main Feasts424 of the Most
 Glorious Virgin (or on such-and-such and such-and-such festivals) at 234C
 the doors of such-and-such church and such-and-such churches. And
 by our sentence we condemn you to such-and-such prison permanently
 (or for such-and-such time).” Penalties that will seem more conducive
 to the Faith’s honor should be set down, attention being paid to the
 greater or lesser severity of the guilt or to the contumacious attitude of
 the criminal. The text goes on: “On the basis of our sure knowledge
 we explicitly reserve for ourselves, as allowed by the regulations of the
 Canon, the right to lessen, increase, change or revoke this penance in
 whole or part, as often as we shall think appropriate. This sentence was
 passed . . . ”
 423 The sleeveless scapular was the normal outer garment worn by monks.
 424 Probably, Purification (Feb. 2), Annunciation (Mar. 25), Assumption (Aug. 15) and Nativity
 (Sept. 8).
602
 The Hammer of Witches 234C–235A
 Whenthis sentence has been read, he should be immediately handed
 over for the appropriate execution of sentence and should put on the
 garment with crosses that was mentioned.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 25:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 6 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de sexto modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-six: the method of passing
 sentence on a denounced woman who is suspected
 and has a bad reputation
 234D
 235A
 METHODSeven of bringinganendtoandfinishingproceed
ings involving the Faith is when the person denounced for heretical
 depravity, after a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings
 with a good panel of legal experts, is found to be suspected of heresy
 and also to have a bad reputation. This is when the denounced person
 is not found to be legally caught by his own confession or by evidence
 of the deed or by the lawful production of witnesses, but he is found
 to have a general bad reputation and indications are also found against
 himthatrenderhimotherwiselightly orvehementlysuspectedofhereti
cal depravity, that is, because he had a close association with heretics,
 like the person who is the topic of discussion in the Chapter “Inter sol
licitudines” (“Canonical Purgation”). By reason of the bad reputation,
 canonical purgation is to be enjoined upon such a person, and by reason
 of the suspicion he ought to make an abjuration of heresy according to
 the cited Chapter “Inter sollicitudines.”
 Regarding such a person the following procedure is to be followed.
 Having a general bad reputation for heresy and, in addition to the bad
 reputation, beingconsideredsuspectedofhereticaldepravityonthebasis
 of other indications, he will first purge himself in public in the method
 treatedonthetopicofMethodTwo.425 Havingcompletedthispurgation,
 the person with the bad reputation will directly, as one otherwise and
 on the basis of other indications suspected of the heresy of which he is
 considered suspected, hold the previously mentioned book containing
 the Gospels that was placed before him, and make the abjuration in the
 following manner.
 425 Q. 21 (225D–227B).
Part III 235A–B
 603
 “And I, Such-and-Such, from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and
Such diocese, have in person been placed in judgment before my Ven
erable Lords, (Name), the bishop of Such-and-Such city and the judge
 in the lands of Lord Such-and-Such, and holding bodily with my own
 hands the Sacrosanct Gospels that have been set before me, I swear that
 I believe by heart and profess by mouth the Holy Catholic Faith that
 the Roman Church believes, professes, preaches and follows, and I con
sequently abjure, renounce and retract every heresy that rears up against
 the Holy and Apostolic Church, whatever sect or error it belongs to.”
 And so on, as was stated above.426
 “Also, I swear and promise that such-and-such and such-and-such
 actions of mine, because of which I rightly have a bad reputation for
 such-and-such and, in addition, you consider me suspect”– they should
 be listed– “I will never from now on do or say or have them done.
 “Also, I swear and promise that every kind of penance that you will
 decide to impose upon me for the foregoing I will fulfill to the best of
 my abilities and will not obstruct in any regard.
 “So help me God and these Holy Gospels!
 “If in the future I act contrary to these oaths and abjurations, which 235B
 God forbid, I, in the present time with reference to the future, freely
 subject, bind and obligate myself to the penalties appropriate under the
 law for such people, so that I will be punished with them, when it is
 legally proven that I committed such acts.”
 It should be noted at this point that if the indications are of such a
 kind andsostrong that with or without the bad reputation that has been
 mentioned they render this person with the bad reputation vehemently
 suspected of heresy, then he will make a general abjuration of heresy in
 the manner described, and if he relapses into any heresy at all, he will
 be punished with the penalty appropriate for the relapsed, as is stated
 in Chapter “Inter sollicitudines” (“Canonical Purgation”) and in Chapter
 “Accusatus” (“Heretics,” Liber Sextus).
 426 230D. At this point in the corresponding section Memorandum (484–485), there is an elaborate
 renunciation of the Heresy of Sorceresses: “A) I swear that I believe in heart and profess by
 mouth that I should inviolably maintain the faith that I took up in the Sacred Font of Baptism,
 even at risk of my well-being, always being subject to obedience to the Apostolic See. B) Also,
 I swear that I believe in heart and profess by mouth that Christ the Lord is the redeemer of
 souls and savior of the soul and body of all those who adhere to Him in true faith, hope and
 charity, and as at the time of my baptism, now too I renounce the Devil and all his pomp and
 most foul works. C) Also, I swear that all sorceresses who in any way inflict harm on humans,
 domestic animals and the fruits of the earth commit these acts through God’s permission with
 the help of demons, with whom and with all the evils angels of Satan they will be tortured with
 eternal flames, being handed over to them in body and soul.”
604
 The Hammer of Witches 235B–D
 235C
 235D
 If the indications are so moderate and light that even with the bad
 reputation they render him suspected of heresy not vehemently but only
 lightly, then it will be sufficient for him to make a specific abjuration
 of the heresy for which he is considered suspect and not a general or
 simple abjuration. Hence, if he relapses into another form of heresy, he
 will not be punished with the penalty appropriate for the relapsed, but
 if he does relapse into the same heresy, by reason of the abjuration, that
 is, because he made the abjuration when lightly suspected, he will not
 be punished with the penalty appropriate for the relapsed, althoughhe
 will be punished more harshly than would otherwise be the case if he
 hadnotmadetheabjuration, all of this being explained in the beginning
 of Chapter “Accusatus” (“Heretics,” Liber Sextus”).427
 Regarding canonical purgation, it is a doubtful point whether he
 should be stricken with the penalty appropriate for the relapsed, that
 is, with the death penalty, if after the canonical purgation he relapses
 into the same form of heresy as the one for which he purged himself
 in the canonical manner. It seems that the answer is that he should be
 according to the first Chapter“Excommunicamus,”§“Adiicimus,”phrase
 “Vel si post purgationem,” and Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Illos quoque”
 (“Heretics” in the old ones).428
 Thenotaryshouldmakesurethathewritesintherecordswhetherthe
 person made the abjuration as someone suspected lightly or strongly of
 heresy, because this makes a big difference, as has frequently been stated
 elsewhere.429
 When these things have been done, the sentence or sentence to
 penance will be passed in a formula of the following content.
 “We, (Name), bishop of Such-and-Such city (or judge in the
 lands subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such), noted carefully that
 you, Such-and-Such, from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such
 diocese, were denounced to us for such-and-such heretical depravity,”
these should be listed– “and wishing, as was our obligation, to be
 judicially informed as to whether you have fallen into this condemned
 heresy, we resorted to conducting an inquisition, examining witnesses,
 summoningandquestioningyouunderoath,anddoingtheotherthings
 427 This sentence is an elaboration on Eymeric, who speaks only of relapse into another form of
 heresy.
 428 The sense of these words, which are not found in Eymeric, is not self-evident, but since there
 is a variant of “autem” for “quoque” in the text of the canon, perhaps the sense is that the latter
 reading is being ascribed to old manuscripts.
 429 230A, 231B, 233B, D.
Part III 235D–236B
 605
 that were to be done by us, conducting the proceeding as was fitting.
 Having done these things, and having seen, carefully scrutinized and at
 the same time examined the merits of the proceedings in a case of this
 kind, each and every one of the transactions and dealings being brought
 forth, and having many times convened regarding and concerning these
 matters a mature and thoughtful panel of theologians and legal experts,
 we found that you had a general bad reputation for this heresy in Such
and-Such place (or places) among good and important people, because
 of which, as ordered by the Canon’s regulations, we enjoined upon you
 canonical purgation, by which you purged yourself and at the same time
 your compurgators purged you. We also found that you committed
 such-and-such acts,”– these should be listed– “because of which we
 not unreasonably held you to be vehemently suspected”– or “lightly”;
 whether it is the one or the other should be stated– “with reference
 to the heretical depravity mentioned before. Because of these things we
 made you, as one suspected in this way of heresy, abjure the heresy.” 236A
 It should say “every heresy” if he has made the abjuration as someone
 vehemently suspected, and “the heresy mentioned above,” if he did so
 as one lightly suspected. “Because we cannot and ought not to tolerate
 in any way such things as you did, but rather are forced to shun them at
 the urging of justice, in order that you will be rendered more cautious
 in future, that crimes will not remain unpunished, that others will not
 be rendered more prone to commit such acts, and that injuries to the
 Creator will not be tolerated with indifference, we, the aforementioned
 bishop (or judge), sitting before the tribunal in the manner of judges
 passing judgment, with the Sacrosanct Gospels set before us, in order
 that our judgment should come forth from the face of God and our
 eyes should see fairness, in the following manner sentence or sentence
 to penance you, the aforementioned Such-and-Such, who have been
 purged and made an abjuration and are in person placed here before us
 in this place and hour assigned to you. You are obligated” and so on.
 Punishments considered more conducive to the honor of the Faith and
 to the extermination of heretical depravity should be set down, that is,
 that on prescribed Sundays and Feast Days he should have to stand at
 the entrance of such-and-such or such-and-such church with a candle 236B
 of such-and-such a weight in his hand while the Rites of the Mass are
 being celebrated and with his head uncovered and feet bare, and that he
 should have to fast on prescribed Fridays, and that for a fixed time he
 should not dare to leave that place but should have to present himself on
 prescribed days of the week to the bishop or judge, and similar things
606
 The Hammer of Witches 236B–C
 that it will seem to be necessary to enjoin depending on the dictates and
 nature of the instances of guilt, it not being possible to give one general
 rule.
 “This sentence was passed...”
 Whenthissentencehasbeenpassed,itshouldbecarriedout.Itwillbe
 possible for it to beremittedorlessenedorchangedaccordingtowhether
 the case, the correction of the penitent and his humility demand these
 things, since the bishop and judge have this power (according to the law,
 as is explained in Chapter “Ut commissi” in “Heretics,” Liber Sextus).
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 26:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 7 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de septimo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-seven: the method of passing
 sentence on a woman who has confessed heresy
 but is penitent
 236C
 METHODEightofbringingtoanendandfinishingproceed
ings involving the Faith and of passing sentence is when the person
 denounced for heretical depravity, after a careful examination of the
 merits of the proceedings with a good panel of legal experts, is found to
 have confessed heresy, to be penitent, and not otherwise to have relapsed
 in fact. This is when the denounced person confesses in court before
 the bishop and inquisitor430 under oath that is it true that for such-and
such length of time he remained and persisted in that sort of heretical
 depravity for which he was denounced or in another, and believed and
 adhered to it, but afterwards, at the urging of the bishop and of the
 others, wishes to veer back and return to the embrace of the Church and
 to abjure both that heresy and every other one and to make satisfaction
 in the manner that they choose to ordain, and it is not found that he
 ever made an abjuration of any other kind of heresy but is now prepared
 to make an abjuration with a ready spirit.
 Theproceduretobefollowedinthecaseofsuchapersonisasfollows.
 Granted that he remained for many years in this heresy and in any other
 ones, and believed and practiced them, and led many others to errors,
 if in the end he agrees to abjure those heresies in reality and to make
 430 Another instance of forgetting to convert a mention of an inquisitor in Eymeric’s original text
 into a mention of a judge.
Part III 236C–D
 607
 appropriate satisfaction at the discretion of the bishop and ecclesiastical
 judge, he is not to be handed over to the secular arm to be stricken with
 the death penalty, nor, if he is a cleric, is he to be defrocked, but he is to
 be granted mercy according to Chapter “Ad abolendam,” §“Praesenti”
 (Extra, “Heretics”). Having first abjured the heretical depravity, he
 is to be remanded to life imprisonment according to the second 236D
 Chapter “Excommunicamus” §“Si quis,”431 once the benefit of Abso
lution has been granted to him and what is customarily enjoined upon
 suchpeopleaccordingtoChapter“UtOfficium”hasbeenenjoinedupon
 him, provided that careful precaution is taken to make sure that he is
 not returning fraudulently with feigned pretence. Also, they may not
 impede the secular arm.432
 Themethodofmakingtheabjurationisthesameastheonedescribed
 above, with the addition, however, that he should by his own mouth
 confess his crimes in church before the congregation on a Feast Day,
 in the following manner.433 When the official asks, “Did you for such
and-such number of years persist in this Heresy of Sorceresses?” he will
 answer, “Yes.” Then, when the official asks, “Did you commit such-and
such and such-and-such acts, as you confessed?” he will answer, “Yes,”
 and so on. Then, after all the questions, he will make the abjuration on
 bended knees.
 Because the person who has in this way been caught in heretical
 depravity is excommunicate according to the first and second Chapters
 “Excommunicamus” and he has through his abjuration returned to
 431 “Si vero aliquis” according to the modern text.
 432 This last sentence is an addition to Eymeric, the purpose being to enjoin ecclesiastical judges
 involved in such cases not to interfere if the secular arm wishes to have repentant sorceresses
 burned alive on account of the “temporal losses” inflicted by them.
 433 This paragraph represents a major abridgement of the procedure in Eymeric. There the abju
ration forms part of a great ceremonial that is performed in church on a Sunday in place of the
 normal service (and thus should not take place on a major holy day). The person to make the
 abjuration sits in a prominent place while the inquisitor preaches against the heresy of which
 he is guilty. Then, if the inquisitor is confident that the person will respond as expected, he is
 to ask (at length) if he wishes to avoid going to hell and to enter heaven by abjuring heresy.
 If the inquisitor thinks that the person may balk at this, he is simply to ask if he is willing to
 make the abjuration, which then follows. At the end, the inquisitor congratulates the person
 on his decision and warns him to keep good company because if he is found to relapse, he will
 be handed over to the secular arm for execution. All this is changed here. The accused is simply
 to make a public confession of his crimes, and there is no mention of mercy because it is fully
 expected that the person will then be executed (though of course for “temporal losses”). The
 purpose of the ceremony in Eymeric is to demonstrate at once the triumph of the church over
 heresy andits mercifulness. Heretheceremonyhasbeenconvertedintoa“publicdemonstration
 of the loathing felt for so great a crime” (to borrow a phrase used often). Oddly, this addition
 uses the generalizing masculine rather than the feminine that usually appears in the provisions
 that are added to Eymeric.
608
 The Hammer of Witches 236D–237A
 237A
 the embrace of the church, accordingly, the benefit of absolution is
 to be granted to him according to the beginning of Chapter “Ut
 officium” (“Heretics,” Liber Sextus). Hence, after the abjuration he is
 to be absolved in the way that bishops can grant absolution from the
 major434 excommunication,sincetheyenjoyApostolicauthority.435 The
 sentence should be passed immediately in the following manner.
 “We, Such-and-Such, bishop of Such-and-Such city (or judge in
 the lands subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such), noted that you,
 Such-and-Such, from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such dio
cese, were denounced to us for heretical depravity by the report of pub
lic rumor and by the report of trustworthy informants. Our heart was
 very keenly wounded by the denunciation that you were tainted with
 this depravity for many years to the great detriment of your soul, and
 because it is incumbent upon us, on the basis of the task entrusted to
 us, to plant the Holy Catholic Faith in the hearts of men and to root
 heretical depravity out of their minds, we wished, as we were and are
 obligated, to be more reliably informed regarding and concerning these
 matters and toseeif the uproar that hadreachedourearswasbasedupon
 any truth, in order that if the truth was so, we might make provision for
 an opportune and salubrious cure. Hence, we resorted to conducting
 an inquisition, examining witnesses and summoning you, and, in the
 most suitable way we could, we questioned you under oath regarding
 434 Theoretically, “minor excommunication” signified simple prohibition from taking the sacra
ments, while “major excommunication” was complete exclusion from “communion with the
 faithful” (Liber Extra 5.39.59), but in practice the former was always uncommon (and the
 category has since been abolished).
 435 The sense of this sentence is borrowed from Eymeric, but in the process has been garbled. In
 Eymeric, the inquisitor makes an extended address to the abjuror at the end of the abjuration.
 He congratulates him on his abjuration and warns him of the consequences of relapse. Then,
 after a prayer, the inquisitor adds, “By the Apostolic authority that I enjoy in this regard I
 absolve you of the sentence of the major excommunication in which you were ensnared,”
 and restores him to communion. Institoris has transferred this statement to the bishop (since
 he is intentionally omitting the role of the inquisitor in the proceedings), but the “Apostolic
 authority” in question refers specifically to the fact that inquisitors of heretical depravity were
 directly appointed by the pope and therefore acted by his authority. Every year on Maundy
 Thursday the pope issued a bull excommunicating a long list of malefactors who harmed the
 Papal See (because of the date of issue, this bull was known as In cena domini, for that day’s
 feast) and reserved for himself the right to grant absolution for the listed crimes, which included
 heresy. Hence, only the inquisitors could grant absolution under such circumstances. Bishops,
 on the other hand, because they lacked such authority, could not grant such absolution to
 heretics. In adapting Eymeric, Institoris apparently lost track of who was speaking the words.
 This error is rather surprising given that in the Memorandum, he notes that “it would be a
 very good idea for me to be present, on account of the Apostolic authority, which I cannot
 transfer.”
Part III 237A–C
 609
 and concerning the denunciations made against you, and did each and
 every thing thatwas to be done by us according to the dictates of justice 237B
 and the regulations of the Canon. Since it was our wish to bring a fitting
 end to your case and to see clearly what had been discovered, that is,
 whether you were walking in darkness or in the light and whether or
 not you were tainted with the stain of heresy, we ordained that a solemn
 panelofexpertsbothinthefacultyofSacredTheologyandinCanonand
 civil law should be convened before us, knowing that according to the
 Canon’s regulations the judgment that is confirmed by the opinions of
 very many menis irreproachable. Having therefore convened a sensible,
 mature and thoughtful panel regarding and concerning each and every
 transaction and dealing in thepresentcase, andhavingseenandcarefully
 scrutinized the merits of the case and having weighed each and every one
 of the contents of it, we found that you have, by your own confession
 received by us in court under oath, been caught in many instances of
 the depravity of sorceresses”– the articles should be listed. “But since
 the merciful Lord, the Granter of Mercy, sometimes permits certain
 people to lapse into the various heresies and errors not only in order
 that Catholic men who are learned in the words of Holy Scripture
 should be trained, but also in order that those who have lapsed in the 237C
 Faith may thereafter become more humble and roused in the works of
 penitence, after carefully examining the merits of the case, we found
 that in adherence to the saner advice frequently urged upon you by
 ourselves and other upright men, you salubriously flew back to the
 embrace of Holy Mother Church and to her Unity, making a public
 declaration of the loathing you feel for these errors and heresies, and
 when you recognized the indisputable truth of the Holy Catholic Faith,
 youimposediton436 yourinnerbowels.Forthisreasonwefollowedinthe
 footsteps of Him Who wishes no one to be destroyed, and granted you
 the public warning that bestows help and consists of abjuration, causing
 you at the present time to make a public assurance by abjuring under
 oath all these heresies and every other heresy. When this abjuration was
 completed, weabsolved youofthesentenceofgreater excommunication
 in which you were ensnared as a result of the lapse into heresy, and
 in reconciling you to Mother Church we restored you to the Church’s
 Sacraments, provided that you returned to the Unity of the Church with
 a true heart and unfeigned faith, as we believe and hope that you have
 done.
 436 This is a misreading of Eymeric, who spoke of “fixing it in” the bowels.
610
 The Hammer of Witches 237C–238A
 237D
 238A
 “Since it would be very inappropriate to avenge injuries to temporal
 lords while tolerating with indifference injuries to God, the Creator of
 all the Heavens, because it would be a much moreserious thing to harm
 eternal than temporal majesty, and in order that He Who feels mercy
 for sins should be merciful to you and you should be an example to the
 others, that crimes should not remain unpunished, and that you should
 be rendered not more prone but more disinclined to commit any other
 unlawful acts, we, the aforementioned bishop and judge (or judges) in
 this case involving the Faith, sitting before the tribunal in the manner”
 and so on as above, with the provision that he should put on the dark
 clothing, and so on.
 “In our sentence we condemn you to life imprisonment, so that you
 will beconstantlytormentedtherewiththebreadofpainandthewaterof
 adversity, reserving for ourselves intentionally and explicitly the absolute
 right to lessen, increase, change or revoke this sentence (penance) in
 whole or part, if and when and as often as this will seem necessary to us.
 “This sentence was passed” and so on.
 When this has been read, the judge should go through the following
 text or one of similar meaning word by word and read it out to the
 person upon whom sentence has been passed. “My son, your sentence
 (penance) consists of your bearing crosses throughout the entire span of
 your life, standing wearing them on the stairs at the entrance of such
and-such churches, and being in perpetual imprisonment on a diet of
 bread and water. But, my son, do not take this hard, because I assure
 you that if you endure with patience, you will find mercy from us. Do
 not be doubtful or despair, but hope tenaciously.”
 When these words have been spoken, the sentence should be turned
 over for appropriate execution. The dark garment mentioned above
 should be put on him immediately, and he should be put at the top of
 the stairs so that he can be seen from afar by those leaving the church.
 The staff of the secular court should surround him. At lunch time he
 should be taken to the prison, and afterwards the other things should
 be done in the way set down in the sentence.
 While he is being clad and taken to the entrance of the church, the
 ecclesiastical judge should no longer take part.437 If the secular court is
 satisfied with the arrangements, fine. If not, it should act as it pleases.
 437 The second half of this clause and the next two sentences are changes made in Eymeric’s
 provisions. Eymeric goes on to discuss various procedural matters, since no further punishment
 is there envisioned for the accused. Here, of course, it is expected both that the secular court
 will have the sorceress executed and that their ecclesiastical colleagues will not interfere.
Part III 238A–C
 611
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 27:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 8 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de octavo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-eight: the method of passing
 sentence on a woman who has confessed heresy
 but is relapsed, though repentant
 METHODNineoffinishingandbringinganendtoaproceeding
 involving theFaithis whenthepersondenouncedforhereticaldepravity,
 after a careful consideration of the merits of the proceedings with a
 good panel of legal experts, is found to have confessed heresy and to be 238B
 repentant but to have relapsed in reality. This is when the denounced
 person confesses in court before the bishop or judges that he has under
 other circumstances abjured every heresy (this being found to beso), and
 heafterwards believed such-and-such heresy (error), or that he had made
 an abjuration of a specific heresy (the Heresy of Sorceresses) and later
 returned to it, but afterwards, adopting sounder counsel, he repents,
 holds Catholic beliefs, and returns to the Unity of the Church. The
 Sacraments of Penance and the Eucharist should not be denied to such a
 person if he makes a humble request, but however much he may repent,
 he is nonetheless to be handed over to the secular arm as a relapsed
 person to be stricken with the death penalty. (This is understood of the
 situation whenitisfoundthathemadetheabjurationassomeonecaught
 in heresy or as someone vehemently and not simply lightly suspected of
 heresy.)
 Theproceduretobefollowedinthecaseofsuchapersonisasfollows.
 If it is concluded in the mature and thoughtful panel of experts, which is
 convened several times if necessary, that the denounced person is legally
 relapsed, the bishoporjudgewillsendtothedenouncedpersoninprison
 twoorthreeuprightmen(preferablymenunderreligiousvowsorclerics)
 who are zealots for the Faith and who are not suspect or unwelcome 238C
 in the eyes of the denounced person but welcome acquaintances. These
 menwill go in to him at a suitably chosen hour and speak to him about
 contempt for this world, the miseries of the present life and the joys
 and glory of Paradise. Finally, after these preliminary remarks, they will
 indicate to him on behalf of the bishop or judge that he cannot escape
 death in this world, and that he should therefore take thought for the
 salvation of his soul and arrange for the confession of his sins and the
612
 The Hammer of Witches 238C–239A
 taking of the Sacrament of the Eucharist. They will visit him often,
 urging him to repent and to endure, strengthening him to the best of
 their abilities in the Catholic Faith. They should be eager to get him
 to confess and have the Sacrament of the Eucharist brought to him if
 he makes a humble request. For the Sacraments of this kind are not to
 be denied to such people according to Chapter “Super eo”(Liber Sextus,
 “Heretics.”)
 238D
 239A
 WhentheSacramentshavebeenreceivedandthedenouncedpersonis
 well preparedforSalvationinthejudgmentoftheuprightmen,aftertwo
 or three days during which he is strengthened in the Catholic Faith and
 urged to repent, the bishop (or judge in his stead) will give to the bailiff
 of the place or the chief magistrate of the secular court the order that at
 such-and-such day and hour (not on a Feast Day) he should appear with
 his staff in such-and-such street (place) (outside the church) to receive
 from his court a certain relapsed person whom the bishop and judge will
 hand over to him, and that on the morning of that day or the preceding
 one he should have public announcement made by crier throughout
 the city or place in the places or streets where other announcements are
 normally made by crier, namely that on such-and-such day and hour in
 such-and-such place the preacher will give a sermon for the Faith and
 the bishop and other judges will condemn a certain person who has
 relapsed into heretical depravity, handing him over to the secular arm.
 It should be noted at this point that if the person who has relapsed
 in this way is in Holy Orders, or is otherwise a priest, or is attired in
 the colors438 of an order (monastic vow), then before he is turned over,
 he should be stripped of the prerogative of every ecclesiastical Order.
 Deprived in this way of each ecclesiastical office and benefice, he should
 be left to be punished with the appropriate penalty at the discretion of
 the secular power, as is stated in Chapter “Ad abolendam” §“Praesenti”
 (“Heretics”).
 Whensuch a person is to be defrocked from his Orders and handed
 over to the secular court, the bishop should convene the prelates and
 men under religious vows of his diocese, because the bishop can now
 (though he could not in the past) by himself, along with the prelates
 and various other men under religious vows and experts of his diocese,
 defrock someone in Holy Orders when he is to be left to the secular arm
 to be immured439 for life for heretical depravity, according to Chapter
 “Quoniam”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”).
 438 The various orders of monks and friars had their own distinctively colored garb.
 439 For an explanation, see n. 406.
Part III 239A–C
 613
 Upon the arrival of the day fixed for defrocking the relapsed person
 and handing him over to the secular arm (if he is in Holy Orders) or
 for abandoning him to it (if he is a layman),440 the congregation gathers
 in some street or place outside the church and a sermon is made by
 the inquisitor,441 while the relapsed person is placed there in a high
 location with the secular court in attendance. If the relapsed person is
 to be defrocked, he is set before the bishop dressed and fitted-out as he
 should be when acting as a priest in his Order, and the bishop, wearing
 his pontificals442 and assisted by the prelates of his diocese, will defrock
 him from his Orders, beginning with the highest and continuing step 239B
 by step to the lowest. When bestowing Holy Orders, the bishop uses
 the words ordained for this by the church, and when defrocking he uses
 other words of a meaning opposite to those used for bestowing both the
 chasuble and the stole, and so on with the other items.443
 When this defrocking is finished (it should be done according to the
 manner obligatory according to law or custom), the official will order
 the notary (or man under religious vows or cleric) to read the sentence.
 Whether it concerns a layman or a defrocked cleric, the sentence will be
 passed after the fashion of the following text.
 “We, (Name), by God’s mercy bishop of Such-and-Such city, and
 the judge in the lands subject to the rule of Lord Such-and-Such, noted,
 after being legally informed, that you, Such-and-Such, from Such-and
Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese, were denounced before us”
if such was the case; or “before Such-and-Such, the bishop and judges”
“for such-and-such heretical depravity or depravities”– these should
 be listed– “in which heresies, as has been legally determined, you were
 caught by your own confession and convicted by witnesses, and that
 after persisting in them for such-and-such time with obdurate spirit”
everything should be explained– “you adopted saner counsel and made 239C
 a public abjuration of these heresies in Such-and-Such place, renouncing
 and retracting them by the formula customary in the church, and that
 because of this the aforementioned bishop and inquisitor,444 believing
 that you were truly converted to the embrace of the Holy Church of
 God, absolved you from the sentence of excommunication in which
 440 For the distinction in treatment, see n. 69.
 441 Once again, it has been forgotten to convert a mention of an inquisitor into one of a judge.
 442 Ceremonial attire for a bishop.
 443 AllofthistalkofdefrockinghereticalpriestsiscopiedtralaticiouslyfromEymericandisbasically
 irrelevant to the peasant women who are thought to be sorceresses.
 444 Another forgotten change.
614
 The Hammer of Witches 239C–240A
 you were ensnared, provided that you had returned to the Unity of the
 Church with a true heart and unfeigned faith, and imposed salubrious
 penanceonyou.Now,however,afterthepassageofsuch-and-suchnum
ber of years since these events, you have been once more denounced to
 us for having fallen into the heresies that you abjured”– they should be
 listed. “Although it was unpleasant for us to hear such things about you,
 nonetheless, under the compulsion of justice, we resorted to conducting
 an inquisition, examining witnesses and summoning and questioning
 you under oath, as well as doing each and every thing that should be
 done according to the Canon’s regulations. Since we wished to bring a
 f
 itting end to the present case, we ordered a solemn panel of experts both
 in the faculty of Theology and in Canon and civil law to be assembled,
 and having convened the mature and thoughtful panel of these men
 239D
 240A
 regarding and concerning each and every one of the transactions and
 dealings, and having looked at and carefully examined the merits of the
 case and weighed everything on level scales in the obligatory manner, we
 found legally, on the basis both of witnesses and of your own confession
 received in court, that you have fallen again into the heresies that you
 abjured. For we found that you said (or did) such-and-such things”
everything should be listed. “Because of this and by the advice of the
 panelmentionedabove,werightlyheldandholdyouasarelapsedperson
 accordingtotheCanon’sregulations.Wereportthiswithgriefandgrieve
 in reporting it. But at the urging of ourselves and of upright Catholic
 men, you have, by God’s inspiration, returned to the embrace of the
 Church and to the truth of Her Faith, publicly declaring your loathing
 of the errors and heresies mentioned above and holding Catholic beliefs
 and avowing the Catholic Faith, and we have therefore allowed you to
 take the Church’s Sacraments of Penance and the Eucharist, which you
 humblyrequested.SincetheChurchofGoddoesnotknowwhatmoreto
 doregarding and concerning you, in that She behaved in such amerciful
 way towards you, as we mentioned before, and you fraudulently took
 advantage of the Church’s trust by falling into the heresies that you
 abjured, we, therefore, the aforementioned bishop and judges, sitting
 before the tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment, with the
 Sacrosanct Gospels placed before us in order that our judgment should
 come forth from the face of God and our eyes should see fairness, hold
ing before our eyes only God, the indisputable truth of the Holy Faith
 and the extermination of heretical depravity, in this place, day and hour
 previously assigned to you for hearing the definitive sentence, by our
 sentence judge you, Such-and-Such, to be truly relapsed into heretical
Part III 240A–C
 615
 depravity, though repentant. We cast you out of our ecclesiastical court
 as someone truly relapsed, and we abandon you (hand you over) to the
 secular arm. Yet, we earnestly ask this secular court to moderate its sen
tence on you to avoid shedding your blood or endangering your life.”445
 With this, the bishop and his assessors will withdraw, and the secular
 court will carry out its duty.
 It should be noted that although the bishop and inquisitor446 should
 undertake the most vigorous efforts, both in their own person and
 through others, to cause the relapsed person to repent and convert 240B
 to the Catholic Faith, nonetheless, after he repents and it is concluded
 in the panel’s deliberations that although he is repentant, he is truly
 relapsed and as such should be handed over to the secular arm, they
 should not indicate to him in person that he is to be punished with
 such a penalty, because the face of the judge terrifies the person to be
 condemned and his words lead the person subject to punishment to be
 impenitent rather than to endure. For this reason, the judges should not
 have himbrought into their presence at this point or before the sentence
 or after it, in order to prevent his being moved in spirit against them,
 which should be avoided with particular care in a capital case like this
 one. Instead, as has been mentioned, they should send to him some
 upright men (preferably men under religious vows and clerics) who are
 not unwelcome but welcome to him. These men will indicate to him
 the coming sentence of death that will be inflicted, strengthen him in
 the Faith, urge him to endure, and stay with him until he returns his
 spirit to his Creator. Let them therefore be careful, taking heed not to
 say anything because of which the relapsed person would anticipate his
 death.447 For in that case they would be rendered irregular,448 and from 240C
 a situation where they should have acquired merit, they would take away
 with them punishment and guilt.
 It should also be noted that sentences in which someone is turned
 over to the secular court do not normally take place on a Feast Day or
 Solemn Dayorinachurch. Instead, they happen outside in some street,
 because it is a sentence that leads to death and it is more seemly for such
 a sentence to bepassed onanon-feastdayoutsidethechurch,since Feast
 Days and churches are dedicated to God.
 445 The hypocrisy of this request to avoid bloodshed is all the more repugnant on account of its
 false protestation of sincerity.
 446 Another forgotten change.
 447 Presumably, a reference to suicide.
 448 Technical ecclesiastical term for someone who has a defect that impedes his performance of
 sacred orders.
616
 The Hammer of Witches 240C–D
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 28:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 9 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de nono modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question twenty-nine: the method of passing
 sentence on a woman who has confessed heresy
 but is impenitent and yet not relapsed
 240D
 METHODTen of bringinganendto proceedings involving the
 Faith andofpassing sentence is whenthepersondenouncedforheretical
 depravity, after a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings
 with a good panel of legal experts, is found to have confessed heresy
 and to be impenitent and yet not relapsed. Such a situation is very rarely
 found,butweinquisitorshaveoccasionallyhadexperiencewiththem.449
 The bishop and judges should not be in a hurry, if they do come across
 one. Instead, they should keep him well guarded in chains, even for
 many months, and urge him to convert, explaining that if he remains
 impenitent in this way, he will be damned in body and soul. If in the
 end it will not be possible for him to be broken down with fortunate or
 adverse circumstances or with threats or blandishments, so that he will
 veer back from his errors, and if he is given the suitable length of time
 mentioned before, the bishop and judges should get themselves ready
 to hand him over (abandon him) to the secular arm. They will send
 to the messenger450 or bailiff or chief magistrate of the secular court a
 note ordering him to appear with his staff on such-and-such non-feast
 day at such-and-such hour in such-and-such place (outside the church),
 449 The sense of this is explained in a corresponding passage of the Memorandum: “This situation
 is found very seldom in the Heresy of Sorceresses, because when they confess their guilt, they
 never do this voluntarily or present themselves as being willing to defend this error, since
 common reason [communis ratio] loathes such errors. But if they are impenitent, they should
 be immediately left to the secular arm to be punished with the death penalty” (499). Eymeric’s
 original advice for the situation in which a heretic refused to recant was that the bishop
 and inquisitor should take their time and attempt to win the heretic over. This procedure
 was obviously not relevant to the Heresy of Sorceresses for two reasons. First, the (innocent)
 accused have been tortured into confessing (such must be the sense of “they never do this
 voluntarily”) and thus will not obstinately defend their views, unlike the Waldensians and other
 convincedheretics whomEymerichadinmind.(Therationalizationtoexplaintherefusalofthe
 supposed sorceresses to defend their beliefs is that this is contrary to “common sense.”) Second,
 it is clearly foreseen that these “heretics” will be promptly burned alive (for the “temporal
 losses” that they have caused), and thus Eymeric’s drawn-out efforts at inducing conversion are
 pointless.
 450 The text of Eymeric used for adaptation was apparently defective at this point. The text should
 indicate that a note or messenger was to be sent to the bailiff or chief magistrate.
Part III 240D–241B
 617
 where they will hand over to him a certain impenitent heretic, and
 to have a public announcement made by crier in the streets or places
 where announcements are normally made by crier, to the effect that
 on this day, hour and place a preacher451 will make a sermon for the
 Faith and will hand over to the secular arm a certain heretic, and that
 accordingly everyone should come and be in attendance, receiving the
 usual indulgence.452
 Whenthesethingshavebeencarriedout,hewillbehandedovertothe
 secular court in the manner of the following text. He should, however,
 be admonished, in the manner previously cited, to veer back and repent,
 but if he is completely unwilling, sentence is passed.
 “We,(Name),by God’smercy bishopofSuch-and-Such town, and 241A
 the judge in the lands of Lord Such-and-Such, noted that you, Such
and-Such, from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese,
 were denounced to us for heretical depravity”– the heresies should be
 listed– “through the denunciation of public rumor and the report of
 trustworthy informants that you persisted in those heresies and deeds
 for manyyears to the detriment of your soul. Since it is incumbent upon
 us as a result of our office to exterminate heretical depravity, and since,
 as we were obligated, we wished to be more reliably informed regarding
 andconcerningthesemattersandtoseewhetheryouwerewalkinginthe
 darkness or light, we conducted a careful inquisition into these matters,
 andbysummoningandsuccessfullyquestioning you, wefoundthatyou
 were tainted with this heretical depravity. Since above all the desires of
 our mind it is a fixed goal of our heart to plant the Holy Catholic Faith
 in the hearts of the congregations and to root out heretical depravity, we
 employed, both in our ownpersonandthroughothers, various different
 suitable methods to cause you to veer back from these heresies and
 errors in which you had stood and were standing contumaciously and 241B
 obstinately, with obdurate spirit, just as you continue to do. But since
 your heart is assisted by the Foe of the Human Race453 and he is rolling
 up and enveloping you in these errors, you were and are unwilling to
 veer back, and you prefer to incur the death of your soul in Hell and of
 your body on earth rather than to fly to the embrace of the Church and
 451 See n. 399.
 452 An indulgence was a remission of sin granted by papal authority in return for some meritorious
 activity. Eymeric often notes that those who attend the sentencing of heretics are to receive
 indulgences, but these passages are usually omitted here (and this one was probably left in
 inadvertently).
 453 I.e., the Devil.
618
 The Hammer of Witches 241B–D
 to gain the profit of your soul, since you are given over to a reprehensible
 frame of mind. Therefore, since you have been ensnared by the Holy
 Church of God in the fetter of excommunication and have been rightly
 separated from the congregation of the Lord and deprived of sharing in
 the good things of the Church, and since the Church does not know
 what more to do with you, having striven to the best of her abilities
 to convert you, we, the aforementioned bishop and judges in a case
 involving the Faith, sitting before the tribunal in the manner of judges
 passing judgment, with the Sacrosanct Gospels placed before us in order
 that our judgment should come forth from the face of God and our
 eyes should see fairness, and having before our eyes only God, the Truth
 of the Holy Faith and the extermination of heretical depravity, on this
 day, hour and place previously assigned to you for hearing the definitive
 241C
 241D
 sentence, condemn you and in our sentence judge that you are truly
 an unrepentant heretic and as truly such a person should be handed
 over and abandoned to the secular arm. In this way, we cast you out
 of our ecclesiastical court as an unrepentant heretic and turn you over
 (abandon you) to the secular arm and to the power of the secular court,
 earnestly beseeching that court to moderate its sentence on you as to
 avoid shedding your blood or endangering your life.
 “This sentence was passed...”
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 29:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 10 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de decimo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question thirty: the woman who has confessed
 heresy and relapsed and is impenitent
 METHODEleven of bringinganendtoandfinishingproceed
ings involving the Faith is when the person denounced for heretical
 depravity, after a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings
 with a good panel of legal experts, is found to have confessed heresy
 and to beunrepentant and relapsed. This is when the denounced person
 confesses with his own mouth in court that he believes such-and-such
 and such-and-such and follows such-and-such practices.
 Regarding such a person the procedure outlined above should be
 followed, and sentence should be passed in the manner of the following
 text.
Part III 241D–242B
 619
 “We, (Name), by God’s mercy bishop of Such-and-Such city (or
 judge in the lands of Lord Such-and-Such), noted that you, Such-and
Such, from Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese, were
 denouncedtous(ortoourpredecessors)454 forhereticaldepravity,”–this
 should be listed– “in which, as was legally determined, you were caught
 by your own confession in court and by trustworthy witnesses, and that
 in those heresies you hadpersisted for such-and-such length of time with
 obdurate spirit,”– the details should be stated– “but that afterwards you
 adoptedsanercounselandabjuredtheseheresiesinSuch-and-Suchplace
 in the formula customary in the church. Because of this the bishop and
 judge mentioned above, believing that you had truly veered back from
 these errors and, holding Catholic beliefs, flown back to the embrace of
 the Church, granted you the benefit of absolution, absolving you from
 the sentence of excommunication in which you had previously been
 bound and held, provided that you returned to the Unity of the Holy
 Churchwithatrueheartandunfeignedfaith.Theyenjoineduponyoua
 salubrious penance andgranted you mercy, because the HolyChurchof 242A
 God does not close her embrace to someone who returns. After all this,
 however, youweredenouncedtous,aswasunpleasantforustolearn,for
 again falling into the damned heresies that you had previously abjured in
 public” or “for committing such-and-such contrary to the abjuration”
this should belisted. “Thoughwoundedwithdispleasureathearingsuch
 things of you, under the compulsion of justice we nonetheless resorted
 to conductinganinquisition, examining witnesses, and summoningand
 questioning you under oath, as was fitting, and doing each and every
 thing that we were obligated to according to the Canon’s regulations.
 Since we wished to bring the present case to suitable conclusion, we had
 a solemn panel of experts in both the theological faculty and Canon
 and civil law assembled, and having convened and even reconvened this
 mature and thoughtful panel of experts regarding and concerning each
 and every detail of the present case, bringing forward and producing the
 transactions and dealings, and having looked at and carefully examined
 themeritsoftheproceedingsandweighedeverythinginalevelbalance,as
 rightandjusticeurged,wefoundlegally,onthebasisofbothtrustworthy 242B
 witnesses and your own confession received repeatedly by us, that you
 had fallen and relapsed into the heresies that you had abjured. We found
 that you said (or did) such-and-such and such-and-such”– everything
 should be explained. “Because of this and on the advice of the panel
 454 In case the earlier abjuration was made before a previous bishop.
620
 The Hammer of Witches 242B–C
 mentioned above, we are rightly forced by your excesses to hold you to
 be relapsed according to the Canon’s sanctions, which we report with
 grief and grieve at reporting, as He Whoisunawareofnothingandlooks
 into the inner recesses of everyone’s heart knows. Since we desired with
 all our heart, as we still do, to bring you back to the Unity of the Holy
 Church and to remove this heretical depravity from your bowels, we
 employed our efforts to make you save your soul and escape the death
 of your body and that of your soul in Hell, applying various appropriate
 methods to make you convert to salvation, but you, being given over
 to a reprehensible frame of mind through being simultaneous led and
 led astray by an evil spirit, preferred to be tortured with the savage and
 everlasting torments in Hell, and to be consumed in body by the flames
 242C
 here455 rather than to adopt saner counsel, veering back from damnable
 andbaneful errors and flying to the embrace andmercyofHolyMother
 Church. Therefore, since the Church of God does not know what more
 todowithyou,havingusedallherabilityintryingtoconvertyou,we,the
 aforementionedbishopandjudgesinthiscaseinvolvingtheFaith,sitting
 before the tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment, with the
 Sacrosanct Gospels placed before us in order that our judgment should
 come forth from the face of God and our eyes should see fairness, and
 having before our eyes only God and the honor of the Holy Orthodox
 Faith, on this hour, day and place previously assigned to you for hearing
 the definitive sentence, in our sentence we condemn you, Such-and
Such, who are placed in our presence, and in our condemnation we
 judge that you are truly an impenitent and relapsed heretic and are in
 fact to be handed over (abandoned) to the secular arm. In this way, we
 cast you out by this definitive sentence of ours from our ecclesiastical
 court as a heretic who is truly both unrepentant and relapsed, and hand
 you over (abandon you) to the secular arm and to the power of the
 secular court, earnestly beseeching that court to moderate its sentence
 on you so as to avoid shedding your blood and risking your life. This
 sentence was passed...”
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 30:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 11 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de undecimo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 455 I.e., on earth.
Part III 242D–243A
 621
 question thirty-one: the person who is
 convicted and caught, but denies everything
 242D
 METHOD Twelve of bringing an end to and finishing pro
ceedings involving the Faith is when the person denounced for heretical
 depravity, after a careful examination of the merits of the proceedings
 with a good panel of legal experts, is found to be caught in heresy by
 evidence of the deed or the legal production of witnesses, but not by his
 own testimony. This is when the denounced person is legally convicted
 of some heretical depravity either through evidence of the deed in that
 he practiced456 heresy publicly, or through legal witnesses against whom
 the denounced person could raise no legal objection, but nonetheless
 the person convicted and caught in this way firmly persists in his denial
 and without exception according to the notes made by Hostiensis in his
 Summa(Title “Heretics” §“Qualiter quis in heresim deprehendatur”) and
 to the discussion above (Question Thirty-four).457
 Theproceduretobefollowedinthecaseofsuchapersonisasfollows.
 Heistobeheldinharsh imprisonment, in fetters and an iron collar, and
 he should be frequently and earnestly warned by the officials, together 243A
 and separately, in their own person and through others, that he should
 reveal the truth to them, indicating to him that he should do this and
 confess his error in order to be granted mercy after first abjuring the
 heretical depravity, but that if he is unwilling and persists in his denial,
 in the end he will be abandoned to the secular arm and will not be able
 to escape temporal458 death.
 If, after being informed of this and given some time, he continues to
 persist in his denial, the bishop and officials should, sometimes together,
 sometimes separately, and sometimes by themselves, sometimes through
 other respectable men,bringfirstonewitness,thenanotherbeforethem
selves. Theyshouldinstructeachtoconsidercarefullythedepositionthat
 he has made and whether he spoke the truth or not, because he is not
 damning himself eternally and someone else on earth, and because he
 would be afraid to tell them at least secretly, so that this denounced
 person would not die unjustly.459 They should endeavor to say to him
 456 For this Eymeric had “preached.”
 457 This cross reference has been erroneously (and incompletely) left in from Eymeric’s original,
 where it actually refers to his “Pt. 2,Q.34.”
 458 I.e., on earth.
 459 TheprintedversionoftextattheendofthissentenceisagarblingofEymeric,andthetranslation
 is an attempt to make some sense of what is printed. (Presumably, the text of Eymeric used for
622
 The Hammer of Witches 243A–C
 such words that they can clearly see whether or not the depositions that
 they have given are true.460
 243B
 243C
 If the witnesses persist in their assertion after being urged like this,
 and the denounced person persists in his denial, even so the bishop
 and officials should not be eager to decide the case immediately by
 passing sentence and handing the person caught in this way over to
 the secular arm. Instead, they should hold him longer, urging first
 the denounced person to agree to the assertion, and then the witnesses
 (separately)461 to examinetheirconscienceswell.Inparticular,thebishop
 and officials should pay attention to the witness whom they see to be
 more inclined to good and who seems to have a better conscience,
 and they should importune him at greater length as to whether or not
 the matter happened as he stated in his deposition, laying this on his
 conscience. If they notice that one witness keeps changing his story back
 andforth or else gives indications that lead to a reasonable suspicion that
 he has told a lie, they should arrest him on the advice of the good panel
 of experts and institute proceedings as justice urges.
 It has been found time and again that after a long period of persisting
 in his denial a person who has been caught in this way by trustworthy
 witnesses comes to his senses, especially when truthfully informed that
 he will not be handedovertothesecular arm but is being granted mercy.
 Hethenreveals his depravity, freely confessing the truth that he has long
 denied. It has also frequently been found that when they are impelled
 by ill-will or overcome by enmity, witnesses have helped maintain each
 other’s resolve to foist heretical depravity upon an innocent person, and
 then, after theyareoverwhelmedbybadconsciencethroughthefrequent
 admonitionsonthepartofthebishopandtheofficials, theyareinspired
 by God to retract what they have said and confess that they maliciously
 foisted such a great aspersion upon him. For this reason, a person who is
 caught in such a way should not be finished off quickly with sentencing.
 Rather, this should be postponed, since he should be given one year or
 several before being handed over to the secular arm in this way.
 If, after this suitable length of time has passed and fitting care has
 been taken, the person denounced in this way and legally caught admits
 adaptation was defective.) The correct text of Eymeric says: “...and whether or not he told
 the truth, because if not, he is damning himself in the eternal life and another in the temporal
 one. They should tell him that he should not be afraid to tell them the truth, in secret at least,
 to avoid the unjust death of the denounced person.”
 460 I.e., the witnesses. The sense of this has been made unclear through the addition of the phrase
 “to him” to the original text without the necessary change of the verb to the singular.
 461 It is not clear whether this means “separately from the accused” or “individually.”
Part III 243C–244A
 623
 his guilt and confesses in court that he was for such-and-such length of
 time trapped in the noose of heretical depravity and agrees to abjure it
 and every heresy and to make suitable amends at the discretion of the
 bishop and inquisitor,462 then as one caught in heresy both by his own
 confession and by the production of witnesses, he should, as a penitent
 heretic, make a public abjuration of all heresy by the formula discussed
 onthetopicofMethodEightofbringinganendtoproceedingsinvolving
 the Faith (set out above).463
 If he has confessed that he had fallen into heresy but persists in it
 with obstinate spirit, he will be handed over to the secular arm as an
 unrepentantpersonandshouldbedealtwithbythemethoddiscussedon
 the topic of Method Ten464 of bringing an end to proceedings involving
 the Faith, where such people are treated.
 If the person caught persists without exception in his denial but the
 witnesses veer back from their assertion, retracting their testimony and
 admittingtheirguiltinthattheyfoistedsogreatastainuponaninnocent
 person, being impelled by a grudge and hatred or led astray by entreaty
 or bribery, then after the person denounced has been released from the
 court as blameless, they will be punished as false witnesses, accusers or
 denouncers,asPaulnotesontheword“Illos”inthebeginningofChapter
 “Multorum”(“Heretics”intheClementines), andsentence(penance)will
 be passed against them at the discretion of the bishop and judges. (They
 should certainly condemn such false witnesses to life imprisonment,
 makethemdopenanceonadietofbreadandwaterthroughoutthedays
 of their lives, and later put them on the stairs in front of the entrance to
 a church, and so on. Bishops do, however, have the power to lessen or
 to increase the penalty after a year or some other period of time.)
 243D
 If, after having been given a year or more or some longer and
 suitable length of time, the person caught in this way persists without
 exception in his denial and the lawful witnesses persist in their assertion,
 the bishop and judges should get themselves ready to abandon him to 244A
 the secular arm, sending to him some upright men who are zealots for
 the Faith (preferably people under a religious vow)465 and who are not
 unwelcomebutwelcomeacquaintancesinhiseyes.Theyshouldindicate
 to himthathecannotescapedeathonearthwhilehepersistsinhisdenial
 462 Another failure to change this to “judge.”
 463 Q. 27 (236B–238B).
 464 Q. 29 (240C–241C).
 465 I.e., monks and friars.
624
 The Hammer of Witches 244A–B
 in this way, but will be handed over to the power of the secular court on
 such-and-such day as an impenitent heretic. In any case, the bishop
 and his officials should send to the bailiff or presiding magistrate of
 the secular court the order that on such-and-such day and hour and in
 such-and-such place (outside a church) he should come with his staff
 to receive a certain impenitent heretic whom the bishop will hand over
 to him, and also that he should have a public announcement made by
 crier in those places in which other announcements are commonlymade
 by crier, namely that everyone should be present on such-and-such day
 and hour and in such-and-such place in order to hear the sermon that
 a preacher will give about the Faith and that the bishop and his officials
 will hand over a certain impenitent heretic to the secular arm.
 244B
 Upon the arrival of the day assigned for the passing of sentence, the
 bishop and officials will appear in this place, with the person to be
 handed over present in a high location and the clergy and congregation
 gathered, so that he can be seen from far off by everyone. The chief
 magistrate of the secular court will be in attendance, and the person to
 be handed over will be standing.
 After these things have been read,466 the sentence will be passed in
 the following manner.
 “We, by God’s mercybishop of Such-and-Such place (or judge in
 the lands of Lord Such-and-Such), noted that you, Such-and-Such, of
 Such-and-Such place and of Such-and-Such diocese, were denounced to
 us for heretical depravity, and wishing to be made certain as to whether
 the things spoken about and against you were based upon some truth,
 andwhetheryouwerewalkinginthedarknessorinthelight,weresorted
 to informing ourselves, carefully examining witnesses and summoning
 and questioning you quite often under oath and granting you lines of
 defense, and doing each and every thing that we are obligated to do
 according to the Canon’s sanctions. Since we wished to bring this case
 of yours to a fitting end, we had a solemn panel of experts both in the
 theological faculty and in Canon and civil law assembled, and having
 carefully examined the merits of the proceedings, with each and every
 transaction and dealing in the present case brought forward and pro
duced, by the thoughtful and likewise mature advice of this panel, we
 466 As a result of clumsy adaptation, this reference in Eymeric to the preceding section that was
 excised hasbeeninadvertentlyleftin.(Thisomittedsectionlaidouttheproceduretobefollowed
 at the handing over of the heretic to the secular arm and ended with a reading of his crimes.)
Part III 244C–245A
 625
 found that it had been legally proven against you that you were tainted 244C
 for such-and-such length of time with heretical depravity, and we now
 f
 ind that you did and said such-and-such and such-and-such”– these
 should be listed. “On the basis of this, it is manifestly apparent that you
 are legally caught in this heretical depravity. We wished, as we still wish,
 that by confessing the truth you would veer back from this heresy and
 be brought back to the embrace of the Holy Church and to the Unity of
 the Holy Faith in order that in this way you should save your soul and
 escape the death of both soul and body in Hell. To this end, we applied
 our diligence, both through our own person and through that of others,
 and waited for you for a long period of time, but you, being given over
 to a reprehensible frame of mind, disdained to acquiesce in our sounder
 counsel andinsteadpersisted and still persist in denial through obstinacy
 and contumely and with an obdurate spirit. We report this grieving and
 grieve in reporting it. The Church of God has waited for such a long
 time for you to veer back and admit your guilt, which you were and are
 unwilling to do, and has no further grace or reward to grant you, and
 therefore, in order that you should be an example to the others, that
 they should be kept back from heresies of this kind, and that such great
 crimes should not remain unpunished, we, the aforementioned bishop 244D
 and judges in a case involving the Faith, sitting before the tribunal in
 the manner of judges passing judgment, with the Sacrosanct Gospels
 placed before us in order that our judgment should come forth from the
 face of God and that our eyes should see fairness, and holding before
 our eyes only God and the glory and honor of the Holy Faith, define,
 declare, and pass as sentence on this day, hour and place assigned for
 hearing the definitive sentence, that you, Such-and-Such, who are set in
 our presence, are an unrepentant heretic to be handed over (abandoned)
 as such to the secular arm. By this sentence, we cast you forth from
 the ecclesiastical court as a truly obstinate and unrepentant heretic and
 hand you over (abandon you) to the secular arm and to the presiding
 magistrate of the secular court, earnestly beseeching the secular court to
 moderate its sentence against you in order to avoid shedding your blood
 or endangering your life. This sentence was passed...”
 Thebishop and judgeswill be able to arrange that some upright
 men, who are zealots for the Faith and who are not unwelcome but 245A
 welcomeacquaintancesintheeyesofthepersonabandonedtothesecular
 court, should stay with him until the secular court carries out its duty
 against him. They are to console him and to continue to urge him to
626
 The Hammer of Witches 245A–B
 veer back from his errors by confessing the truth and admitting his
 guilt.
 If thepersonwhohasbeenabandonedtotheseculararmfollowingthe
 sentencehappenstosay,afterhehasbeenbroughttotheplacewhereheis
 to be burned, that he wishes to confess the truth and admit his guilt, and
 if he does so and is prepared to abjure heresy of this kind and every other
 heresy, although it is presumed that he does this more through fear of
 deaththanthroughloveofthetruth,Iwouldbelievethatoutofmercyhe
 could be received as a penitent heretic and imprisoned for life according
 to the gloss on the word “Audientia” in§“Praesenti” of Chapter “Ad
 Abolendam” and according to the second Chapter “Excommunicamus.”
 In the strict interpretation of the law, however, no great faith should
 be attached to such a conversion by judges in matters of the Faith, and
 indeed they can always punish him because of the temporal losses he has
 inflicted.467
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 31:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 12 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de duodecimo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question thirty-two: the person who is
 convicted but who is a fugitive or
 contumaciously absents himself
 245B
 THEThirteenth andlast468 methodofbringing an end to pro
ceedings involving the Faith and of passing sentence is when the person
 denounced for heretical depravity, after a careful examination of the
 merits of the proceedings with a good panel of legal experts, is found
 to be convicted of heretical depravity, but is a fugitive (contumaciously
 absent) and has been given a suitable period of time. This occurs in
 three situations. The first is when the denounced person is caught in
 heresy by his own confession or by evidence of the deed or by the law
ful production of witnesses, but was unwilling to appear when legally
 summoned and has become a fugitive or absented himself. The sec
ond situation is when someone who has first been denounced and then
 considered somewhat or lightly suspect through the receipt of some sort
 467 The last clause of this sentence is an addition to Eymeric, and it refers to the secular judge and
 not to “judges in matters involving the Faith.”
 468 This word is from Eymeric, and several further methods have been added specifically to deal
 with the Heresy of Sorcery (cf. 194B).
Part III 245B–D
 627
 of information against him is for this reason summoned to answer a
 charge involving the Faith, and then, after he has been excommunicated
 for contumaciously refusing to appear, the excommunicate endures this
 excommunication with obstinate spirit, always absenting himself con
tumaciously. The third situation is when someone directly hinders a
 bishop’s or judges’ sentence or proceedings involving the Faith, or when 245C
 someone who has given help, counsel or favor for this purpose con
tumaciously absents himself. Such a person is stricken with the sword
 of excommunication, and then if he has endured this excommunica
tion for a year with obdurate spirit, he is to be condemned as a heretic
 according to §“Prohibemus” of Chapter “Ut inquisitionis”(Liber Sextus,
 “Heretics”). In the first situation, such a person is to be condemned as
 an impenitent heretic according to §“Praesenti” of Chapter “Ad abolen
dam,” and in the second and third situations he is to be judged as an
 impenitent heretic but is to be condemned like or as a penitent heretic
 according to Chapter “Cum contumacia” and §“Prohibemus” of Chapter
 “Ut inquisitionis”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”).
 The procedure to be followed in the case of any of these is as follows.
 Having been given an appropriate period of time, such a person should
 be summoned by the bishop and official in the cathedral of that diocese
 in which he committed the crime and in other churches of that region
 wherehekepthispermanentresidence, especially the region from which
 he fled. He will be cited by the formula of the following text.
 “We, (Name), by God’s mercy bishop of Such-and-Such city”
and so on– “(or judge) send the spirit of sounder counsel to Such
and-Such of Such-and-Such diocese. The Church in this diocese of 245D
 Such-and-Such is, I say, the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts, and the right
 hand of the Highest Father planted this vineyard by His virtue, the Son
 of that Father watered it abundantly with the liquid of His own life
giving blood, the nourishing Paraclete Spirit469 made it fertile within
 through wondrous and indescribable gifts, and the unfathomable and
 impenetrable Holy Trinity both endowed and enriched it in a holy way
 with very great and varied privileges.470 Every heretic can be called a
 boar, because he is in fact a boar from the forest, who destroys and ruins
 the plentiful fruits of the Faith by sowing the brambles of heresy among
 469 I.e., the Holy Spirit.
 470 Normally, the sample formulas of decrees that Eymeric provides are straightforward and legal
istic, but for some reason he decided to show off his abilities as a composer of sermons in
 connection with the topic of excommunicating a fugitive from justice. Institoris dispensed with
 this in the corresponding section of the Memorandum but decided to include it here.
628
 The Hammer of Witches 245D–246B
 246A
 246B
 the vine shoots.471 He is also called a coiling, poison-spitting snake, but
 he is actually the wicked Foe of our human race: the Devil and Satan.
 The wish that is fixed most of all in our heart, more than all the desires
 that we can conceive, is that in our times this Church should abound
 in plenty, and that the vine shoots and the fruits of this vineyard of the
 Lord should not be devoured and consumed by the heretical boar from
 the forest or poisoned by the snake’s injection of the poison of heretical
 depravity into it. May this not happen to this field of the Lord, which,
 I say, is the Catholic congregation! For God the Father’s first and only
begotten Son descended from the pinnacles of highest Heaven both to
 cultivate and to plant it through the sowing of wondrous and holy
 sermons. He roamed throughout its villages and castles, teaching with
 great care, and He chose and hired men who clearly were hard workers
 to be the Apostles, enriching them with eternal recompense. The Son of
 Godexpects that on that Final Day of JudgmentHewillgather plentiful
 handfuls from that great field and store them up in that Holy Granary of
 His in heaven by the hands of the Holy Angels. But there are Samson’s
 crafty little foxes.472 These foxes are like people depraved with the stain
 of heresy: while they have different faces, their burning tails are tied
 together, so that from their different varieties the flames unite in order
 to ruin with the bitterest bite473 the Lord’s crop, which is now ripe for
 the harvest and gleams with the splendors of the Faith. With the subtlest
 rushing about, they ruin that crop, and with the strongest assault they
 alight on and light it,474 and scatter and destroy it, subtly and damnably
 undermining the integrity of the Holy Catholic Faith.
 Accordingly, since you, Such-and-Such, fell into those damned Here
sies475 of Sorceresses, following their practices publicly in Such-and-Such
 place”– this should be listed– (or “since you were convicted of heretical
 471 The “boar from the forest” who ruins the vineyard planted by the right hand of God comes
 from Ps. 80:9–16.
 472 This image comes from Judges 15, in which Samson wreaks vengeance on some Philistines with
 whom he is unhappy (because his Philistine father-in-law had given away his wife) by setting
 their field alight with the peculiar stratagem of capturing 300 foxes, tying them together in pairs
 by the tail, attaching burning torches to the intertwined tails, and letting the beasts loose. The
 image was a popular one among ecclesiastics, appearing in the decretals “Inter sollicitudines”
 and “Vergentis.”
 473 The introduction of biting into the imagery of foxes with burning tails is seemingly out of
 place, but perhaps this is meant to recall the earlier image of the poisonous snake.
 474 The jingle “alight on and light” is an attempt to render the (more or less meaningless) Latin
 jingle accedant et accendant (“approach and set ablaze”).
 475 Theoriginal phrase inEymeric,whichread“youmanifestlyfellintodamnedheresies,preaching
 them openly in such-and-such church,” has been incompletely modified; the addition of the
 phrase “of Sorceresses” dictates that “heresies” should have been made singular.
Part III 246B–C
 629
 depravity through lawful witnesses” or “caught by your own confession
 received by us in court”) “and, after you were later arrested, you fled,
 rejecting the medicine for Salvation, wesummonedyoutorespondmore
 openly regarding and concerning these matters before us, and when you
 refused to appear, being led and led astray by an evil spirit...”
 Or:476 “Accordingly, since you, Such-and-Such, were denounced to
 us for heretical depravity and, when information was received against
 you, were otherwise lightly suspected in our eyes of being tainted with
 this stain, we summoned you to appear in person before us to make a
 response concerning the Catholic Faith, and when you contumaciously
 refused to appear when summoned, we excommunicated you and had
 your excommunication announced in public. You stayed in it for a year
 (or such-and-suchnumberofyears)withanobstinatespirit,lurkinghere
 and there, so that we have no idea where the evil spirit has taken you.
 Whilewemercifully and benignly awaited your return to the embrace of
 the HolyChurchofGodandtheUnityoftheHolyFaith,youdisdained
 to do so, being given over to a reprehensible frame of mind. We wish, as
 we are bound to by the compulsion of justice, to bring your case to an 246C
 appropriate conclusion, and we are unable to tolerate such unspeakable
 crimes with conniving eyes. Therefore, we, the bishop and judges in the
 aforementioned cases involving the Faith, both demandandsummonby
 our present edict that you, Such-and-Such, often mentioned as the one
 whois lurking as a runaway and fugitive, should appear in person before
 us on such-and-such day of such-and-such month in such-and-such
 cathedral of Such-and-Such diocese at the hour of the Terce Office477 in
 order to hear the definitive sentence. We hereby declare that whether or
 not you appear, we will proceed to the definitive sentence against you
 in the way that the law and justice will urge.
 “In order that our summonsshould cometoyournotice first and that
 you should not be able to defend yourself with the excuse of ignorance,
 it is our wish and command that this present letter of ours containing
 our demandandsummonstoyoushouldbefixedinpubliconthedoors
 of such-and-such cathedral mentioned above.
 “In witness of these specifics, we have ordered that this present letter
 of ours be validated with the impression of our seal.
 476 Here we have for the first time alternative sentences, one for sorceresses and another for regular
 heretics, but this distinction probably signifies nothing. Both versions appear in Eymeric, but
 only the first was modified (clumsily) to refer to sorceresses.
 477 One of the canonical hours for saying the office, “terce” comes from the Latin for “third” and
 originally signified the office held at the third hour of the day (i.e., around 9 am).
630
 The Hammer of Witches 246C–247A
 “Issued . . . ”
 246D
 247A
 Uponthe arrival ofthefixeddayassignedforhearingthedefini
tive sentence, if the fugitive appears and agrees to make a public
 abjuration of every heresy, asking in humble penitence to be granted
 mercy, it will, if he is not relapsed, be granted. If he was caught by his
 own confession or the lawful production of witnesses, he will make the
 abjuration and do penance as a penitent heretic according to the man
ner treated above on the topic of Method Eight478 of bringing an end to
 proceedings involving the Faith, where such people are treated.
 If he is violently suspected, in that when summoned to make a
 response concerning the Faith he was unwilling to appear, and after
 being excommunicated for this he stayed in the excommunication for a
 year with obstinate spirit, but he repents, he will be granted mercy and
 will abjure every heresy and do penance as a repentant heretic violently
 suspected of heresy according to Method Six479 of bringing an end to
 proceedings involving the Faith.
 If he appeared and did not agree to make the abjuration, he will be
 handed over to the secular arm as a truly unrepentant heretic in the
 manner mentioned above (this is treated on the topic of Method Ten480
 of bringing an end to proceedings involving the Faith).
 If he contumaciously refused to appear, then the sentence should be
 drawn up in the manner of the following text.
 “We, (Name), bishop by God’s mercy of Such-and-Such city,481
 notedthatyou,Such-and-Such,fromSuch-and-SuchplaceofSuch-and
Such diocese, were denounced to us for heretical depravity through the
 denunciationofgeneralrumor(orthereportoftrustworthyinformants),
 and as is our duty because of our office, we resorted to conducting an
 investigation and inquisition into whether the uproar that had reached
 our ears was based on any truth. After we found that you were caught in
 heresy throughthedepositionsmadeagainstyoubyverymanytrustwor
thy witnesses, we ordered you to be summoned before us and detained.”
 It should state how it happened, that is, whether or not he appeared and
 confessed under oath while being questioned. “But afterwards, fearing
 to haveyourwoundshealedforSalvationwithwineandoil,youwereled
 478 Q. 27 (236B–238B).
 479 Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 480 Q. 29 (240C–241C).
 481 As usual, the reference in Eymeric to the participation of an inquisitor in these proceedings has
 been cut out, but its replacement with “and the judge...” has been inadvertently forgotten.
Part III 247A–C
 631
 and led astray by an evil spirit and fled,” or if such is the case, it should
 say:482 “you bothbrokeoutofjailandfled,lurkinghereandthere,sothat
 we have absolutely no idea where this spirit has taken you.” Or thus:
 “But after we discovered against you” and so on as above “who were
 denounced to us for heretical depravity, that there were many indica
tions because of which we rightly considered you lightly suspected of the
 aforementioned heretical depravity, we summoned you by public edict 247B
 in such-and-suchandsuch-and-suchchurchesofSuch-and-Suchdiocese
 to appear before us in person in Such-and-Such place before a certain
 deadline established by us in order that you should respond regarding
 and concerning the depositions against you mentioned above, concern
ing the Catholic faith and its articles. But you, adopting insane counsel,
 contumaciously refused to appear, and though at the dictate of justice
 we have excommunicated you and had your excommunication publicly
 announced, you rejected the medicine for Salvation and endured and
 have been enduring this excommunication for more than a year with an
 obstinate spirit, being given over to a reprehensible frame of mind and
 lurking here and there, so that we have no idea where the evil spirit has
 taken you. Although for so long, that is, for such-and-such a length of
 time, the Holy Church of God has mercifully and benignly waited for
 youtoflybacktotheembraceofhermercy,veeringbackfromerrorsand
 doing works according to the Catholic Faith that you have professed,
 and to be nourished with the plenty of her clemency, you, being led
 astray by the counsel of evil people, refused to acquiesce, persisting in
 your obstinacy. Since we wished, as we still do and ought to under the 247C
 compulsion of justice, to bring your case to an appropriate conclusion
 through sentencing, we summonedyoutoappearinpersonbeforeuson
 this day and hour in this place to hear the definitive sentence, but you
 contumaciously refused to appear, by a reasonable standard demonstrat
ing your desire to remain in your heresies and errors for ever. We say this
 with grief and grieve in saying it. But since we cannot and do not wish to
 escape justice by stealth or to tolerate such disobedience and contumely
 towards the Church of God, in order to exalt the Orthodox Faith and to
 wipe out heretical depravity, as justice insists and your disobedience and
 contumely demand, on this day, hour and place previously assigned to
 you as the deadline for hearing the definitive sentence, we, sitting before
 482 The first situation, which has the accused merely fleeing rather than breaking out of jail (and
 then fleeing), is an addition to Eymeric’s text. Presumably, the specific reference to breaking
 out of jail was too strong for the intended situation, namely the flight from justice of a woman
 accused of sorcery.
632
 The Hammer of Witches 247C–248B
 247D
 248A
 248B
 the tribunal in the manner of judges passing judgment, with the Sacro
sanct Gospels placed before us in order that our judgment should come
 forth from the face of God and that our eyes should see fairness, and
 having before our eyes only God and the indisputable Truth of the Holy
 Faith, after convening a panel of many experts both in the theological
 faculty and in Canon and civil law, after looking at and examining the
 merits of the proceedings, pass against you, Such-and-Such, in absence
 as in presence, the definitive sentence that follows in this document,
 following in the footsteps of St. Paul the Apostle483 and invoking the
 name of Christ. We, the aforementioned bishop and judges in a case
 involving the Faith, note that in this case involving the Faith and in the
 previous proceedings now completed, the legal procedure was observed;
 that when lawfully summoned you did not appear or excuse yourself
 in your own person or through someone else; that for a long time you
 persisted and are still persisting in the aforementioned heresies, and for
 such-and-such number of years you endured, just as you still endure,
 excommunication in a case involving the Faith with obdurate spirit;
 and that the Holy Church of God has nothing more that she can do
 with you, since you persist and wish to persist in this excommunication
 and these heresies. Therefore, following in the footsteps of St. Paul the
 Apostle, we declare, define and pass as our sentence that you, Such
and-Such, in absence as in presence, are an obstinate heretic and as such
 are to be abandoned to the secular arm. By this definitive sentence of
 ours, we drive you from the ecclesiastical court and abandon you to the
 power of the secular court, earnestly entreating that court to moderate
 its sentence against you to avoid shedding your blood and endangering
 your life when it has you in its power.
 “This sentence was passed” and so on.
 It should be noted at this point that if this contumacious fugitive
 was caught in heresy by his own confession or lawful witnesses and fled
 before the abjuration, he is to be judged a truly unrepentant heretic in
 the sentence, and this should be stated in it. If, however, the only way
 in which he was caught was that, after being denounced and considered
 suspect, he wassummonedtorespondconcerningtheFaith,andbecause
 of his refusal to appear he was excommunicated and remained in the
 excommunication for more than a year with an obdurate spirit, refusing
 to appear, then such a person is to be judged not a heretic but like a
 heretic and is to be condemned as such. This should be stated in the
 sentence, as was stated before.
 483 For the sense of this, see Pt. 2 n. 560.
Part III 248B–C
 633
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 32:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “Method 13 of ending a process involving the Faith”
 (de tredecimo modo finiendi processum fidei)]
 question thirty-three: how to pass sentence on a
 person denounced by another sorceress who has
 been or is to be burned to ashes
 METHODFourteen of bringinganendtoproceedingsinvolv
ing the Faith and of passing sentence is when the man (woman)
 denounced for heretical depravity, after a careful examination of the
 merits of the proceedings with a good panel of legal experts with ref
erence to the person giving the deposition, is found to be denounced
 for such heretical depravity only by another sorceress who has been or
 is to be burned to ashes. This can happen in thirteen ways in thirteen
 situations. The person thus denounced484
 is found innocent and is to be completely absolved, or
 is found in addition to have a bad reputation for such heresy in a
 general sense, or
 is found, in addition to the infamy, to be subject in some way to being
 exposed to questioning under torture, or
 is found to be lightly suspected of heresy, or
 is found to be vehemently suspected of heresy, or
 is found to be violently suspected of heresy, or
 is foundtohaveabadreputationandatthesametimetobecommonly
 suspected,
 andsoonintheothersituationsinthemannerdiscussedinQuestions
 Twenty, down to Method Thirteen (inclusively).485
 Thefirstwayoccurswhenthepersonisdenouncedonlybyasorceress
 under detention and is not convicted by his486 own confession or the
 484 This “methodofsentencing” has nodirect correspondence in Eymeric. Here a series of methods
 of sentencing is laid out specifically for use in connection with the Heresy of Sorceresses, and
 while these are clearly modeled on Eymeric’s methods (see next note), this section was also
 inspired by Eymeric’s discussion “On cases of vehement suspicion of heresy that are expressed
 in the law” (Q. 2.55), in that several of Eymeric’s “cases” in which a person becomes vehemently
 suspected of heresy are adapted here. To avoid confusion with the “methods” deriving from
 Eymeric, these “methods” are translated as “ways (of occurrence).”
 485 ThisisaclumsywayofreferringtoQs.20–32,thelastcontainingMethod13ofpassingsentence.
 486 Initially, while it is a sorceress who is conceived of as making the denunciation, the person she
 accuses is described in the generalizing masculine. In the subsequent discussion of the various
 “ways of occurrence,” the usage vacillates between conceiving of the denounced person as male
 or female, and this inconsistency will be (confusingly!) followed in the translation.
 248C
634
 The Hammer of Witches 248C–249A
 legal production of witnesses, and there are no other indications at all
 that could result in him being judged with probability to be suspected.
 Such a person is by all means to be absolved, even by the secular judge
 whoeither burned to ashes the sorceress who gave the deposition or was
 able todosobyhisownauthorityorbydelegationfromthebishopinthe
 latter’s capacity as ordinary judge. The person will be absolved with the
 sentence contained in Method One of bringing an end to proceedings
 involving the Faith (Question Twenty).487
 The second way occurs when in addition to the fact that he has been
 denouncedbythewomanunderdetention,shealsohasabadreputation
 throughout the entire village (city), so that it was only and precisely this
 bad reputation that was worked up, although later the bad reputation is
 aggravated through the deposition of the woman under detention.
 248D
 249A
 Thefollowingprocedure shouldbeobservedregardingsuchaperson.
 The judge notes that apart from the bad reputation nothing specific is
 proven against her byothertrustworthy people inthevillage (town), and
 although the woman under detention has perhaps made a deposition
 aboutcertainserious accusations against him,nonetheless,she488 haslost
 faith489 by renouncing her Faith to the Devil and hence it is difficult for
 judgestoputfaithinherwordsunlessthebadreputationisaggravatedby
 other circumstances (in whichcaseitwouldfallintothethirdway,which
 comes next). Therefore, canonical purgation will have to be enjoined in
 such a situation, and the proceedings will be conducted according to the
 sentence contained in the discussion of Method Two of bringing an end
 to proceedings involving the Faith (Question Twenty-two).490
 If a civil judge decrees that this purgation should be done solemnly
 before the bishop, so that if he fails, the person could in that case be
 punished with a penalty that is much harsher as an example to others,
 so be it. If the judge wishes to carry it out by himself, he should order
 the person to get ten or twenty compurgators of his estate, and he
 should conduct the proceedings in the manner discussed on the topic of
 Method Two491 of passing sentence on such people, with the exception
 that in a situation in which the person is to be excommunicated, the
 judge should have recourse to the bishop. (This would happen in the
 situation where the person was unwilling to purge himself.)
 487 225A–D.
 488 I.e., the convicted sorceress who made the denunciation.
 489 Something of a play on words in the Latin, in that the word that also means “faith” in the
 religious sense here means “credibility” or “trustworthiness.”
 490 Actually, Method 3 is discussed in Q. 22 (227B–228D).
 491 Q. 21 (225D–227B).
Part III 249A–B
 635
 The third way occurs in the case of such a denounced person when
 he is not convicted by his own confession or the lawful production
 of witnesses or evidence of the deed, and there are also no indications
 about any deed for which the other inhabitants of the village (town)
 had pointed the finger at him, except only that the bad reputation was
 worked up among them, and this bad reputation was aggravated by the
 deposition of the sorceress under detention in that while she claimed
 that he (she) had been her associate in everything and had participated
 with her in the crimes, either this very activity is not known to other
 inhabitants, just as it is without exception denied by the denounced
 woman, or there is general agreement among the inhabitants that there
 was only respectable behavior or participation on her part.492
 Regarding such a person the following procedure is followed. First,
 they have to confront one another face to face. The mutual recrimina
tions and responses are to be noted carefully, and if there in fact turns
 out to be some inconsistency in the words,493 so that the judge can 249B
 reasonably presume on the basis of the admissions and denials that it
 would be just for the denounced woman to be exposed to question
ing under torture, the proceedings should be conducted according to
 the sentences contained on the topic of Method Three of bringing an
 end to proceedings involving the Faith (Question Twenty-three).494 She
 should be tortured lightly, and the large number of necessary stratagems
 explained at length above in the beginning of the present Part Three495
 492 At first sight, it is difficult to see how the third “way” differs from the second, since both
 basically consist of the denunciation made by a convicted sorceress being added to the bad
 reputation of the denounced person. It is to be noted that these “ways” are based upon the
 corresponding “methods” of Eymeric as laid out in earlier questions. Method 2 in Q. 21 (225D
227B)concernssomeonewhomerelyhasabadreputationandonthisbasisissentencedtomake
 an abjuration, while Method 3 in Q. 22 (227B–228D) concerns someone about whom there
 is either inconsistency in the person’s own testimony or other indications, so that questioning
 under torture is warranted. The outcome in the second and third ways is the same, and there
 are cross references to the corresponding methods in the text. But the distinction between
 the two methods is not really relevant to the new situation. The reference in 249B to “other
 circumstances” that cause the second “way” to become the “third” is rather contrived, and it
 would seem that the distinction merely boils down to the question of the amount of credence
 placed in the denunciation. If it is not considered very credible, then an abjuration is called for
 (this is the second way), and if it is, then torture (this is the third).
 493 Presumably this refers to the words of the denounced woman. At any rate, it is supposed
 inconsistencies in the words of the accused that lead to the questioning under torture in
 Method 3 (227B–228D).
 494 The citation should be to Q. 22 (227B–228D).
 495 The relevant questions (15–16) are actually the last ones in Section 2 of Pt. 3, and later in the
 present question (250D) these very questions are again said to be the first of Section Three (for
 the layout of Pt. 3, see 193D–194B).
636
 The Hammer of Witches 249B–D
 should also be used. On the basis of them a presumption is made as to
 whether she is innocent or guilty.
 249C
 249D
 The fourth way occurs when the person denounced is found to be
 lightly suspected (either by his own confession or the deposition of
 another woman under detention). There are some who put into this
 category of light suspicion those who have consulted sorceresses to
 woo women, or the situation where they have produced love among
 spouses who were vexing each other with mutual hatred, or those who
 have toiled among sorceresses for the sake of some temporal gain.496
 But such people are clearly excommunicate as believers of heretics
 according to§“Credentes”ofthefirstChapter“Excommunicamus”(Liber
 Sextus, “Heretics”), where it says,497 “Wesimilarly judgebelievers intheir
 errors to be heretics,” since a presumption about intent is made on the
 basis of actions (as argued in 32,Q. 2 “Qui viderit”), and therefore,
 it seems that they should be punished and sentenced more harshly
 than those considered lightly suspected of heresy. In the same way,
 some are to be so judged on the basis of light conjectures, because,
 for instance, they rendered services to them, delivered letters, had no
 faith in their errors but failed to report them, or received alms from
 them.
 Whether they are understood to fall into the first or the second cat
egory (which will be decided by a session of the panel), the judge will
 have to prosecute the light suspicion by the following procedure. Such
 a person will either make an abjuration or purge himself in the way pre
scribed by the Canon according to Method Four of bringing an end to
 proceedings involving the Faith, which is discussed in Question Twenty
four.498 It seems that the abjuration is to be imposed (because of §“Qui
 vero inventi fuerint sola suspicione notabili” in the cited first Chapter
 “Excommunicamus”), but if they relapse, they should nonetheless not
 be punished with the penalty for the relapsed, and the proceeding will
 follow the method discussed on the topic of Method Four of bringing
 an end to proceedings involving the Faith in Question Twenty-four.
 The fifth way occurs when a person denounced in this way is
 found to be vehemently suspected (similarly, either by his own confes
sion or the deposition of another sorceress under detention). There are
 496 Seemingly, the first two categories have not been discussed previously. Benign “love magic” was
 not considered culpable heresy. As for those who engage in sorcery for temporal gain, see 184A.
 497 Actually, though excessive abridgement, this reference has been garbled; the phrase is from the
 second chapter “Excommunicamus.”
 498 The citation should be to Q. 23 (228D–230A).
Part III 249D–250A
 637
 those499 who, on the basis of Chapter “Ut inquisitionis negocium”(Liber
 Sextus, “Heretics”), put into this category of vehement suspicion those
 who directly or indirectly hinder the office of those who are conduct
ing inquisitions into sorceresses, provided that they do so knowingly.
 They likewise put into it all those who knowingly give aid, counsel and
 favor to those who hinder it (this is made clear by the cited Chapter “Ut
 inquisitionis”), and those who instruct summoned or arrested heretics
 about concealing or misrepresenting the truth or asserting falsehood
 (on the basis of §“Si”500 of Chapter “Accusatus”), and those who know
ingly harbor those whom they know to be heretics, bring them home,
 visit or associate with them, send them gifts or bestow favor on them.
 (When all these actions are done knowingly, they are done on behalf
 not of the person but of his guilt.)501 Accordingly, they say that when
 the denounced person is a participant in these actions (which will be
 decided by a session of the panel), then he is to be sentenced according
 to Method Five of bringing an end to proceedings involving the Faith
 in Question Twenty-five,502 so that he has to make an abjuration of 250A
 every heresy, subject to the penalty for the relapsed if he backslides.
 We can assert in addition that judges should take into account the
 family and offspring (progeny) of every single sorceress who has been
 burned to ashes or is under detention. For the most part, the females are
 found to be tainted, since at the demons’ insistence sorceresses have to
 offer them their own children and so without a doubt have to instruct
 themineverysortofcrime.Thesemattersareexplainedinthefirstpartof
 the work,503 andthis is also proven throughthefact that in simpleheresy,
 when someone has a bad reputation because of close acquaintance with
 heretical relatives, he is vehemently suspected of heresy consequently on
 account of this close acquaintance, and exactly the same is the case in
 the Heresy of Sorceresses. The former situation is made clear in Chapter
 “Inter sollicitudines”(Extra, “Canonical Purgation”),whereitisexplained
 499 This merely refers to Eymeric (cf. how his ideas are vaguely cited in 186B–D). This and the
 subsequent three groups that are placed in the present “way” are derived from the cases in
 which someonebecomesvehementlysuspected of heresy in his question “On cases of vehement
 suspicion of heresy that are expressed in the law” (Q. 2.55); see n. 484.
 500 Eymeric actually says the “last” §, and the Latin abbreviation for “last” (“fi.” for finalis) was
 apparently misread as “si” (which oddly enough is the start of §6, but the relevant sentence is
 in the last, eighth, §).
 501 In Eymeric, this sentence refers to the directly preceding list of activities that show favor towards
 heretics. It is not clear whether it is meant to have this narrow interpretation here or should
 cover the previous instances as well.
 502 The citation should be to Q. 24 (230A–231D).
 503 Presumably, Pt. 2,Q.1, Ch. 13 (137A–141D) is meant.
638
 The Hammer of Witches 250A–C
 250B
 250C
 that canonical purgation was enjoined on a certain deacon on account
 of a bad reputation for heresy, that a public abjuration was enjoined
 on him on account of his close acquaintance with heretics, and that on
 account of the scandal he was deprived of his benefice until the scandal
 died down.
 Thesixthwayoccurswhenapersondenouncedinthiswayisrendered
 violently suspect. This takes place not in the circumstance of a simple
 (bare) deposition made by another sorceress under detention but in one
 oftheindicationsofthedeedthatareinferredfromcertainwordsthatthe
 detained sorceress uttered or deeds that she committed, it being claimed
 that the denounced woman was at least present during this or shared
 in the works of the woman giving the deposition. To understand these
 statements, note should be made of the things said above in Question
 Nineteen,504 especially how violent suspicion arises from violent and
 compelling conjectures and how the judge is violently forced to believe
 on the basis of mere suspicion that someone is a heretic, though this
 person is perhaps a good Catholic in his heart.505 This is the same as the
 illustration given by the canonists506 for simple heresy, where someone
 summoned to respond in a case involving the Faith contumaciously
 refuses to appear and because of this contumely is excommunicated.
 When he remains in this excommunication for a year, he is rendered
 violently suspected of heresy. Hence, by similar reasoning note should
 be made of the indications of the deed that result in her being rendered
 violently suspect.
 Let us posit the following situation. The sorceress under detention
 claimed that the denounced woman was present during her acts of
 sorcery, but the denounced woman denies this without exception. What
 will the judgedothen?Itwillclearlybenecessarytoconsiderwhetheritis
 onthebasis of someworksthatsheisvehementlysuspectedandwhether
 the vehement suspicion can turn into a violent one. In the previous
 situation, when the person summoned to respond does not appear but
 contumaciously refuses, he becomes lightly suspected of heresy, even
 though he was summoned in a case not involving the Faith, and if he
 refuses to appear when summoned in a case involving the Faith and is
 excommunicated for contumacy, then he becomes violently suspected
 since in that case the light suspicion turns into a vehement one, and then
 504 221A–224D.
 505 For the details, see 222B–D.
 506 I.e., Eymeric, who is actually a theologian.
Part III 250C–251A
 639
 if he remains excommunicate for a year, the vehement suspicion turns
 into a violent one. Similarly, the judge will consider whether on account
 of the close acquaintance she formed with the sorceress under detention
 the denounced womanbecomesvehemently suspected, as was discussed
 immediately above on the topic of the fifth way507 of occurence. In that
 case, it will be necessary to consider whether the vehement suspicion can
 turn into a violent one. For in a situation where she has frequently had
 a close acquaintance with her, it is presumed that it can become violent,
 that is, that the denounced woman was present during the crime of the
 woman under detention. The judge will therefore have to conduct the
 proceedings according to Method Six of bringing an end to proceedings
 involving the Faith in the way that is discussed in Question Twenty- 250D
 six.508
 If it is asked what the judge will do if a woman denounced in this
 way still absolutely persists in her denial despite whatever indications
 have been produced against her, the answer is that the judge should
 f
 irst consider whether or not the negative answers result from the vice
 (sorcery)ofsilence.Indeed,aswasexplainedinthefirstquestions(Fifteen
 and Sixteen) of the present Section Three,509 the judge can examine
 whether she is able to cry and shed tears, and in the situation where she
 is rendered virtually incapable of sensation, so that she is readily restored
 to her original strength, the violent suspicion is then aggravated and she
 should absolutely not be allowed to go free. Rather, as in Method Six510
 of bringinganendtoproceedingsinvolvingtheFaith,whichisexplained
 above, she should be remanded to life imprisonment to do penance.
 If she is not tainted with the sorcery of silence, as is made evident by
 the great agonythatshereallyandtrulyenduresinthequestioningunder
 torture, whereas others are rendered virtually incapable of sensation as
 a result of the sorcery of silence, as has been mentioned, then the 251A
 f
 inal recourse available to the judge is canonical purgation. (If this is
 enjoined by a secular judge, it will be called a permissible form of vulgar
 purgation511 because it is not one of those vulgar purgations treated in
 2,Q. 4 “Consuluisti” and “Monomachiam.”) If he or she fails in this
 purgation, he or she will be judged guilty.
 507 249D.
 508 The citation should be to Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 509 Qs. 15–16 (213A–216A and 216B–217D) are actually the last of Section 2.
 510 Q. 25 (232A–234C).
 511 I.e., it is not one of the “vulgar purgations” like an ordeal or duel that were prohibited under
 canon law; see Q. 17 (218A–219D).
640
 The Hammer of Witches 251A–B
 The seventh way occurs when the denounced person is not found to
 be legally caught by his (her) own confession or by evidence of the deed
 or by the lawful production of witnesses, but he (she) is only found to
 have been denounced by the sorceress under detention and at the same
 time there are found to be indications that render him lightly or vio
lently suspected inasmuch as he (she) had very close acquaintance with
 sorceresses. In that case, canonical purgation will be enjoined on the
 person on account of the bad reputation according to the cited Chapter
 “Inter sollicitudines,” and the abjuration of heresy will be enjoined on
 account of the suspicion, with the penalty for the relapsed in the event of
 backsliding if the suspicion is vehement, without it if it is light. The pro
ceedings should be conducted according to the procedure discussed on
 the topic of Method Seven of bringing an end to proceedings involving
 the faith (Question Twenty-seven).512
 251B
 The eighth way occurs when the person denounced in this way is
 found to have confessed the heresy but to be repentant and never to
 have relapsed. Here it should be noted that when there is talk of being
 relapsed and not being relapsed, and of being repentant and of not
 being repentant, such distinctions are made for the sake of ecclesiastical
 judges, who do not involve themselves in inflicting the death penalty.
 Hence, the civil judge can conduct proceedings involving a woman who
 has confessed, whether or not she repents or is relapsed, according to
 civil and Imperial laws513 in the way that justice urges, though when
 some doubtful point comes up, he can resolve his uncertainty through
 recourse to the thirteen methods of passing sentence.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 33:
 Eymeric, Dir. 3.50, 51, 55, 56]
 question thirty-four: the method of passing
 sentence on a sorceress who breaks acts
 of sorcery, and on sorceress midwives and
 sorcerer archers
 METHODFifteen of bringinganendtoproceedingsinvolving
 the Faith and of passing sentence is when the person denounced for
 512 The citation should be to Q. 26 (234C–236B).
 513 “Civil” is the broad term for laws passed by temporal governments, while “Imperial” signifies
 the laws of the Holy Roman Empire.
Part III 251B–D
 641
 heretical depravity is found not to inflict but to break acts of sorcery.
 The procedure to be followed in the case of such a person is as follows.
 He uses either lawful or unlawful remedies, and if he uses lawful ones, 251C
 then he should be judged not a sorcerer but a worshipper of Christ
 (these lawful remedies were explained at length at the beginning of the
 present Part Three).514 If, on the other hand, he uses unlawful ones,
 then a distinction should be made on the basis of whether they are
 unlawful absolutely or in some specific regard. If they are absolutely
 unlawful, then this is the case in two different ways, the remedies being
 implemented either with or without harm to one’s neighbor,515 though
 either way with an express invocation of demons. If, on the other hand,
 they are unlawful in some regard, for instance by taking place without
 an express, though not without an implicit, invocation of demons, such
 acts are judged to be the sort called vain rather than unlawful by the
 canonists and bycertaintheologians, as was explained aboveinQuestion
 One516 of this last part of the whole work. Therefore, any judge, whether
 ecclesiastical or civil, does not have to rebuke the first and last group and
 in particular ought rather to praise the first and tolerate the last, since
 the canonists claim that it is lawful to smash vanities with vanities.517
 Nonetheless, these judges ought not to tolerate in any way those who do
 away with acts of sorcery through an express invocation of demons, and
 especially not those who commit such acts to the harm of a neighbor.
 (They are said to follow their practice to the neighbor’s harmwhen the 251D
 sorcery is removed by being inflicted on someone else, and it makes no
 difference whether or not the woman uponwhomitisinflictedis herself
 a sorceress, or whether or not she is the one who inflicted the sorcery,
 or whether it is a human or any other creature.) All the deeds and acts
 related in Question One (cited above) shed light on these points.
 It is asked what the judge will do when such a person claims to break
 acts of sorcery with lawful and not unlawful remedies, and how the
 judge could correctly decide such claims. The response is that when the
 person has been summoned, he is asked what remedies he uses, though
 his words should not be relied upon. But the ecclesiastical judge, upon
 514 Actually, the relevant discussion (153A–154B) is in the introductory question of Pt. ii,Q. 2
 (“whether it is permissible to break spells of sorcery through other spells or through unlawful
 methods”).
 515 In Biblical contexts, the word that appears in the Latin version as proximus (literally, “someone
 closeby”) is traditionally (and misleadingly in terms of modern English usage) translated as
 “neighbor,” as in “Love thy neighbor as thyself” (Matt. 5:43).
 516 Actually, the unnumbered introductory difficulty of Pt. ii,Q.2 (152A–158D).
 517 A similar attitude of qualified toleration of superstitious but benevolent practices is exhibited
 in 158C, but all such remedies are rejected outright in 177C–D.
642
 The Hammer of Witches 251D–252B
 252A
 252B
 whom this is incumbent because of his office, should conduct a careful
 investigation of what remedies he uses, either by himself or through
 some parish priest who should make a specific inquiry of individual
 parishioners under oath, as he is allowed to do. If she is found to use
 superstitious remedies, as they commonly do, such women are not at
 all to be tolerated on account of the horrible penalties imposed by the
 canons, as will be explained below.518
 If it is asked on what basis lawful remedies can be distinguished from
 unlawful ones, since they always claim that they remove such acts with
 certain prayers andtheuseofplants,theansweristhatthiswouldbeeasy,
 so long as a careful inquisition is conducted. Since they are obligated
 to conceal their superstitious remedies in order to avoid being censured
 or to ensnare the minds of simple folk more easily, they make use of
 such words or uses of plants. Yet, they are censured as fortune-tellers or
 sorceresses on the basis of four superstitious acts on their part.
 There are some who perform divinations about hidden matters and
 disclose things that they can know only through the revelation of
 demons. For example, when people who have been harmed visit them
 to regain their health, they know how to disclose and reveal the rea
son for the harm or sorcery, so that if it happened as the result of a
 quarrel with a woman neighbor or for some other reason, they have
 absolutely full knowledge of this and know how to indicate it to their
 visitors.519
 The second520 is when they intervene to cure one instance of harm
 or sorcery but not another. This is the case with a certain sorceress of
 the diocese of Speyer in a place called Zun Hofen.521 She seems to be
 able to heal quite a few people, but she admits that she cannot heal
 certain people at all, for no other reason, as the locals say, than that the
 acts of sorcery inflicted upon such people are so strongly affixed– she
 claims, by other sorceresses (clearly through the power of demons)– that
 she cannot remove them. Of course, the real reason is that one demon
 cannot always yield to another or is not willing to do so.
 The third is when they are known to make individual exceptions
 regarding acts of sorcery inflicted in this way. A case like this is known
 518 The reference is unclear, since none of the penalties (horrible or otherwise) described later in
 the chapter relate to the treatment of those who break sorcery.
 519 Cf. the discussion of this topic in 155C.
 520 I.e., superstitious act.
 521 The location remains unidentified. The village of H¨ ofen to the south of Karlsruhe was presum
ably part of the diocese of Strasburg.
Part III 252B–C
 643
 to have happened in this same city of Speyer. When a respectable person
 was affected with sorcery in the shins and summoned a female diviner
 of this kind to regain her health, the diviner entered the house, and after
 looking at her made such an exception. She said, “If you do not have
 scales and hair in the wound, I will be able to pull out everything else.”
 Although the womanhadcomefromtwomilesawayinthecountryside,
 the diviner also revealed the reason for the harm, saying, “It happened
 to you because you quarreled with a female neighbor on such-and-such
 day.” Apart from scales and hair she pulled out a large number of objects
 of various kinds and restored her to health.522
 The fourth is when they make use of superstitious ceremonies or 252C
 have others do so, such as wishing to be visited before sunrise523 or
 another fixed time, or saying that they cannot heal illnesses older than
 the last Ember Days524 or that they can heal only two or three people
 in a year. (It seems that they525 heal not by healing but by ceasing to
 harm.)
 Verymanyotherconsiderationsconcerningthecircumstancesofsuch
 people can be added. For the most part, in the past they had an evil and
 reprehensible way of life or a bad reputation or were adulteresses or
 the survivors526 of sorceresses, and hence this grace of healing was not
 granted by God as the result of any holy way of life.
 Incidentally, midwife sorceresses, who surpass all other sorceresses
 in their crimes, are included here (they were also mentioned in Part
 One527 of the work).528 Their number is in fact so great, as has been
 learned from their confessions, that it is thought that there is no village
 where their kind are not found. Clearly, governmental authorities could
 provide partial relief from this danger by licensing only midwives who
 522 For the notion that demonic “remedies” for sorcery actually signify simply that a demon has
 stopped causing harm, see 154D–155A, 174A, and 254B.
 523 Cf. the pre-dawn practice in 179D.
 524 See Pt. ii n. 444.
 525 I.e., the demons with whom the supposed healers are co-operating.
 526 The interpretation of this expression has caused difficulties, but the sense is explained by the
 notion that sorceresses have to leave behind a daughter as asuccessor (see141B). The implication
 here certainly is that the mother is dead, and may refer to the situation when she has previously
 been burned alive as a sorceress.
 527 Q. 11 (63C–64C); see also Pt. ii,Q.1, Ch. 13 (137B–141D).
 528 According to the main table of contents (6A), Method 20 of sentencing deals with midwives,
 but there is no overt indication of a new topic here. The (here unlisted) Method 19 seemingly
 follows in the next paragraph. Perhaps the reason why these topics are listed in the inverse order
 in the table of contents is that the order is determined by the concluding paragraph (254B),
 where the midwives are mentioned first.
252D
 644
 The Hammer of Witches 252D–253A
 have taken an oath,529 along with remedies mentioned in Part Two530
 of the work.
 Sorcerer archers are another incidental topic.531 The safer the har
borers, abettors and defenders whom they have in the lands of noble
men and princes are, the more dangerous is their existence, which
 clearly insults the Christian Religion. That all such harborers, abet
ters and so on are generally more damnable in certain situations than
 all the sorceresses is explained as follows. The defenders of such people
 are divided by canonists and theologians into two categories. While
 some defend the error and others defend the individual, the former are
 more damnable than those who hold the error since they are to be con
sidered not simply heretics but heresiarchs, as is explained in 24,Q.3,
 “Quiillorum.”Thelawsgenerallydonotspeakofsuchdefendersbecause
 they are not distinguished from other heretics, but the often cited Chap
ter “Ad abolendam,” §“Praesenti” is relevant here. There are certain oth
ers who, while not defending the error, defend the person who holds
 the error inasmuch as they use their force and power to prevent such
 sorcerers or any other heretics from falling into the hands of a judge
 of the Faith for examination and punishment, and commit similar
 acts.
 253A
 Similarly, their abettors fall into two categories.532 There are some
 who exercise public authority, that is, people in government like tem
poral lords or spiritual ones who hold temporal jurisdiction,533 and such
 people can be abettors in two ways, either through omission or com
mission. They do so by omission when they omit to do things that they
 are obligated to do about sorcerers or those suspected or defamed as
 529 In effect, midwives would belong to a guild. In the Middle Ages, organizations called guilds
 were set up to regulate the practices within specific specialized crafts, and anyone who wished
 to practice that craft had to be accepted into the local guild and swear an oath to uphold all
 guild regulations, which were enforced by officials appointed either by the guild itself or by the
 municipal government. Presumably, it is this sort of regulatory regime and not the oath itself
 that the author has in mind as a solution to the problem of murderous midwives.
 530 PresumablythisisageneralreferencetotheremediesdescribedinPt.ii,Q.2,sinceno“remedies”
 for sorceress midwives are treated there (or in the main discussion of such midwives in Pt. ii,
 Q. 1, Ch. 13 [137B–141D]).
 531 According to the main table of contents (6A), Method Nineteen of sentencing deals with archer
 sorcerers, enchanters of weapons and any nigromancers, but there is no overt indication of a
 new topic here.
 532 This topic is apparently added to the section on male sorcerers because abettors are likewise
 regularly male, but in the table of contents (6A) there is no mention of this topic at all.
 533 The distinction is between simple secular lords and ecclesiastical figures who also directly
 rule their territories, a common phenomenon in the Holy Roman Empire. Interestingly, this
 distinction has been introduced into the source material in Eymeric, who in place of the
 ecclesiastical rulers specified subordinate officials of the secular lords.
Part III 253A–C
 645
 such or believers, harborers, defenders and abettors, though they have
 been ordered to do so by a bishop and inquisitor534 or by one of them.
 For instance, if they do not arrest them or carefully guard those who
 are under arrest, or do not take them to the place within their territory
 to which they have been commanded, or do not swiftly execute the
 sentence passed on them, or the like, as is explained in the beginning
 of Chapter “Ut inquisitionis”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”). They do so by
 commission if, for instance, they release people under such arrest with
out the permission or order of the bishop or the judge responsible for
 that person, or directly or indirectly hinder the proceedings, passing of
 judgment or sentence concerning them, or commit similar acts, as is
 explained in the cited Chapter “Ut inquisitionis,” §“Prohibemus.” The
 penalties imposed on such people are explained in the previous material 253B
 at the end of the second principal division535 of the work, where there
 is a treatment of sorcerer archers and other enchanters of weapons. For
 the present let it suffice to say that all such people are excommunicate
 by law and incur twelve great penalties, as is explained in the first Chap
ter “Excommunicamus,” §“Credentes”(Extra, “Heretics”) and the cited
 Chapter “Ut officium.”536 If they remain in this state of excommuni
cation for a year with an obstinate frame of mind, then they are to be
 condemnedasheretics,asisexplainedinthesamechapterandparagraph
 cited.
 As for the questions of which people are to be considered harborers
 and whether they are to be considered as heretics, the response is that
 those who receive such sorcerer archers or any sort of enchanters of
 weapons, nigromancers or heretical sorcerers (the people who have been
 the subject of this entire work), are divided into two categories just like
 their defenders and abettors.
 There are some who take such people to themselves not just once
 or twice but several times and frequently, and by the sense of the word
 are properly harborers (receptatores from receptare), because the verb is
 a frequentative form.537 Such harborers are sometimes without guilt, 253C
 that is, they do so through ignorance and never had any prior suspicion
 534 Another instance of forgetting to change a reference to an inquisitor in Eymeric to one to a
 judge.
 535 I.e., Pt. ii. Apparently, 151C–D is meant, which is actually at the end of Pt. ii,Q.1.
 536 Ut inquisitionis is clearly meant.
 537 ThisisatermofLatingrammar.Fromcertainverbswereformedsecondaryverbswhichsignified
 the intensive or repeated performance of the concept conveyed by the original verb. Hence,
 the verb receptare is derived from recipere (“to take, receive”) and literally means “to receive
 repeatedly” and hence “to harbor.”
646
 The Hammer of Witches 253C–D
 of those people. Sometimes they do commit a guilty act, that is, when
 they know their errors and are not unaware that the church always
 persecutes such people as the cruelest foes of the Faith.538 Yet, the lords
 of the earth nonetheless harbor them, hold them, defend them, and so
 on.539 It is because such people literally are harborers of heretics that
 they are so designated, and the laws speak of them, saying that they
 are excommunicate according to the first Chapter “Excommunicamus,”
 §“Credentes.”
 Somepeoplehavenotreceivedsorcerersorheretics ofthis kindseveral
 times andfrequently but just one or twice, and it seems that these people
 are not properly called “harborers” (receptatores), because the heretics did
 not visit frequently, but “receivers” (receptores), because they received
 the heretics rather than harbored them.540 The Archdeacon does say the
 oppositeonthetopicoftheword“receptatores”inChapter“Quicumque,”
 but there is little force in this since what we should care about is deeds
 and not words.
 253D
 There is a difference between harborers and receivers in that lords of
 the earth are always called harborers of them, while simple people, who
 do not have the means or power to drive them out, are without guilt
 even if they do receive them.541
 Finally, the question of the people who hinder the bishops’ office of
 the inquisition against such sorcerer heretics: who are they and are they
 to be called heretics? The response to this is that hinderers of this kind
 are divided into two categories.
 There are some who cause a direct hindrance, for instance, those who
 in their own rashness free from prison people who have been arrested
 on a charge of heresy or those who break up proceedings involving the
 Faith and inflict wounds on witnesses in a case involving the Faith for
 having given testimony. Another instance is if a temporal lord decrees
 that no one but himself should try this charge or that an accusation on
 this charge can be laid before no one but himself and that testimony can
 be given only before him, and the like. These people are said to cause
 538 The reference to these people being “the cruelest foes of the Faith” has been added to the source
 material from Eymeric and presumably reflects the idea that sorceresses are far worse than the
 regular heretics discussed by Eymeric.
 539 This reference to secular lords has been added to the source material in Eymeric and reflects the
 idea that the spread of sorcery is abetted by the refusal of secular powers to do anything about
 it (compare the discussion in 148C–150A).
 540 Another distinction based on Latin grammar: receptor is the agent noun derived from the verb
 recipere, while receptator is the form for the corresponding frequentative verb (see n. 537).
 541 Cf. the lenient treatment of the subordinates of lords who harbor sorcerer archers in
 149C–D.
Part III 253D–254B
 647
 a direct hindrance according to the notes of John Andreae on the word
 “directe” [“directly”] in Chapter “Statutum”(Liber Sextus, “Heretics”).
 Also included are those who directly hinder the proceedings, passing of
 judgment or sentence in such a case involving the Faith or who give aid,
 counsel or favor in carrying out such acts.
 Such people are very culpable, but nonetheless, they are not to 254A
 be judged heretics for this reason unless it is otherwise apparent that
 they are ensnared in similar errors of sorcerers with obstinate will. They
 are, however, stricken with the sword of excommunication by the law
 according to Chapter “Ut inquisitionis,” §“Prohibemus,” so that if they
 remain in that state of excommunication for a year, they are to be
 condemned as heretics, as is explained in the chapter and paragraph
 cited.
 There are those who cause an indirect hindrance, such as those who
 decreethatnoonebutmembersofthetemporallord’sretinueshouldtake
 up arms to capture heretics and the like, according to the notes of John
 Andreae on the word “indirecte” [“indirectly”] in Chapter “Statutum.”
 Such people are less culpable than those of the first category. They
 (including those who give counsel, aid or favor for this purpose) are
 not heretics but are excommunicate according to the cited Chapter “Ut
 inquisitionis,” so that if they remain in this excommunication for a year
 with an obstinate frame of mind, they are to be condemned as heretics
 according to the cited chapter, §“Prohibemus.” This is to be interpreted
 as meaning that they are condemned as heretics with the understanding
 that if they are willing to return to the church, they are granted mercy 254B
 after having first abjured the error. Otherwise, they are handed over to
 the secular court as unrepentant heretics, as is explained in Chapter “Ad
 abolendam,” §“Praesenti.”
 In conclusion. Sorceress midwives, like other sorceresses who inflict
 acts of sorcery, are condemned and sentenced according to the circum
stances of the crimes, and so are sorceresses who break acts of sorcery
 in the superstitious manner discussed above542 through the work of the
 Devil, since there is no doubt that they can inflict such acts in the same
 way that they can remove them. Consequently, by the demons’ instruc
tions the sorceresses come to some sort of agreement whereby some are
 supposed to cause harm, and others to heal, so that in this way they can
 all the more easily increase their breach of the Faith by ensnaring the
 minds of the simple folk.
 542 251B–252A.
648
 The Hammer of Witches 254B–D
 254C
 254D
 Since sorcerer archers and other sorcerer enchanters of weapons are
 supported only by the favor, defense and harboring accorded to them by
 governmental authorities, they all are subject to the penalties discussed
 above. Those who have at all impeded any officials in their duty against
 such sorcerers and their abettors and so on are similarly excommunicate
 and are subject to all the penalties as abettors. When they remain for a
 year in that state of excommunicationwith an obstinate frame of mind,
 then if they are willing to return to the church, they make an abjuration
 of hindering and abetting and are granted mercy. Otherwise, they are
 handedover to the secular arm as unrepentant heretics. Even before they
 have remained in a state of excommunication for a year, proceedings can
 still be instituted against such hinderers as abettors of heretics (this is
 argued in the last paragraph of Chapter “Accusatus”).543
 What has been said of the abettors, defenders, harborers and hinder
ers in a situation involving sorcerer archers and so on should also be
 understood in all regards concerning any sorceresses or sorcerers who
 inflict injuries on humans, domestic animals and the fruits of the earth.
 Any sorcerers who seek forgiveness in the forum of penance with a con
trite and humbled spirit, bewailing their sins and making a genuine
 confession, are granted mercy. Otherwise, when they become known,
 those upon whom this is incumbent on the basis of their office should
 institute proceedings against them, summoning, arresting, seizing and
 conducting proceedings against them in all regards according to the cir
cumstances of the crimes up to and including the definitive sentence in
 the waythathasbeentreated,ifandtotheextentthatsuchgovernmental
 authorities wish to escape the noose of eternal damnation on account
 of the excommunication imposed on them by the church.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified source for Q. 34:
 Eymeric, Dir. 2.51–54]
 question thirty-five of this last part: the
 methods of sentencing any sorcerers who lodge
 frivolous or unjust appeals
 IFthe judge perceives that the denounced person is in the end
 taking refuge in the remedy of appeal, the first thing to be noted is
 543 Oddly, Eymeric cites not the decretal “Accusatus” but the privileges of inquisitors granted in
 Urban IV’s apostolic letter “Prae cunctis” and confirmed by subsequent popes.
Part III 254D–255B
 649
 that it is sometimes decided that an appeal is valid and just, sometimes
 that it is frivolous and void. The proceedings in matters of the Faith
 should be summary, simple and informal,544 as has often been stated
 in the foregoing, on the basis of Chapter “Multorum querela” inthe
 Clementines, where theremedyofappealisinfactforbidden,butbecause
 it is sometimes the case that the hard work entailed by the matter means
 that judgesreadily postponeanddelayit,theycannotethatinasituation
 where the denounced person feels that he has in fact been oppressed by
 the judge contrary to the law and justice on the grounds that the judge
 was unwilling to allow him to defend himself, or that by himself and
 without a panel of others or the agreement of the bishop or his vicar 255A
 the judge sentenced him to questioning under torture, despite the fact
 that he could have got other sufficient proofs for and against him,545
 and the like, then in that case the appeal would be just. Otherwise,
 not.
 The second thing to be noted is that when an appeal of this kind is
 presented to the judge, he ought to ask for a copy of the appeal without
 emotional consternation, making a verbal declaration that he need not
 hurry. He should note that when the denounced person hands over
 the copy of the appeal, he still has two days to respond and after this
 another thirty to present the attachment.546 In the situation where he
 is very experienced and knowledgeable, he could immediately make his
 response and give one kind of attachment or the other, but in order for
 the proceedings to be conducted cautiously, it is better to set for the
 denounced person a deadline of ten, twenty or twenty-five days within
 which the kindofattachment that the judge decides to give will be given
 and received, the judge reserving the right to make a postponement
 within the statutory period of time.
 The third thing to be noted by the judge is that within the statutory
 period of time he ought to carefully consider and examine the reasons 255B
 for the appeal (the alleged prejudicial rulings). If, after convening a good
 panel of experts, he sees that he has unjustly and unduly oppressed the
 denouncedpersonbynotallowinghimtodefendhimselforbyexposing
 him to questioning under torture at an inappropriate time or the like,
 then upon the arrival of the deadline that he has set, he should correct
 544 199B–C.
 545 The provision about other proofs is an addition to the source material from Eymeric.
 546 The apostoli (here translated as “attachment”) was a letter that the judge against whom the
 defendant was appealing included with the appeal to indicate to the authority with whom
 the appeal was being lodged whether or not he agreed with the appeal (in the former case, the
 attachment was referred to as “reverential”).
650
 The Hammer of Witches 255B–D
 his error and bring the proceedings back to the point and the situation
 obtaining at the point when the defendant asked for lines of defense, or
 whenthe judge set a deadline for an interlocutory ruling or the like, and
 remove the prejudicial ruling. Once this is removed, he can carry out the
 proceedings as before, because when the prejudicial ruling is rescinded,
 the appeal, which had had some validity, is rendered void according to
 Chapter “Cessante”(Extra, “Appeals”).
 255C
 255D
 At this point the circumspect and prudent judge should note that
 while certain prejudicial rulings are remediable (these are the ones just
 discussed, and that discussion is relevant to them), others are irreme
diable, for instance, if the denounced person was actually and in fact
 questioned under torture and appeals after coming through it safely,547
 or if somevaluablesandotherusefulitemswerereceivedatthesametime
 as containers and devices that sorcerers use and these were burned,548
 and other acts that cannot be remedied or retracted. In that case the
 method just mentioned (returning the proceedings to the situation
 obtaining when the prejudicial ruling was imposed) would not be
 relevant.
 The fourth thing to be noted by the judge is that he has thirty days
 from the day of his response to present the attachment according to
 Chapter “Ab eo” (“Appeals,” Liber Sextus). He could set for the peti
tioner the last statutory day (the thirtieth) for the presentation of the
 attachment, but to prevent the appearance that he wishes to harass the
 denounced person and to make sure that he does not render himself
 suspected of undue harassment, thereby confirming the allegation of
 having made a prejudicial ruling against the denounced person, it is
 better to set a suitable deadline that is within the statutory period of
 time, for instance, ten or twenty days later. Later, upon the arrival of
 the deadline, he can, if he does not wish to settle the matter,549 make a
 postponement, saying that he has been tied up with other affairs or the
 like.
 Thefifththingtobenotedbythejudgeisthatwhenhesetsadeadline
 for the appellant who is petitioning for an attachment, he should not set
 one merely for giving the attachment but for giving and receiving it at
 the same time, because if he assigns one only for giving it, then the judge
 against whom the appeal is being lodged would have to send it to the
 547 I.e., without confessing.
 548 This clause is an amusing adaptation of Eymeric’s example: “or if books were received from him
 and then burned.”
 549 Instead of this clause, Eymeric has: “if he sees this to be expedient.”
Part III 255D–256A
 651
 appellant. He will therefore set him a deadline, that is, such-and-such
 day of such-and-such year, for the judge to give him such an attachment
 as hewill decide to give andfor the appellant to receive it from the judge.
 Sixth, he should note that in setting this deadline he should not say in
 his response550 that he will give a favorable or unfavorable attachment,
 but in order to deliberate more fully he should say that he will present
 such a letter as he will at that time decide should be presented.
 Heshould also note that in setting this deadline for the appellant, he
 should, in order to thwart every stratagem, chicanery and evil intent on
 the appellant’s part, specify the place, day and hour, for instance, setting
 the twentieth day of August of the present year at the hour of Vespers,551
 in the chamber of this judge located in such-and-such house552 of Such
and-Such city (place), for the judge to give to Such-and-Such appellant
 such a attachment as he will decide should be presented and for him to
 receive it.
 Seventh, henotesthatif hedecidesinhismindtokeepthedenounced
 personindetention,asthecrimerequiresandjusticedemands,insetting 256A
 the deadline he should write down that he is setting for this appellant
 such-and-such deadline for the judge to give the attachment and for
 the appellant to receive it in person, and is assigning such-and-such
 place to the same appellant for the judge to give the attachment to him
 and for him to receive it from the judge. In this situation, the judge
 has the discretion to detain the appellant, provided that an unfavorable
 attachment is first given; otherwise not.
 Seventh,553 the judge should note that he should make no alteration
 in the status of the appellant by arresting him or by questioning him
 under torture or by releasing him from prison or in some other way,
 from the hour when the appeal was presented to him until the hour
 when he hands over to him the unfavorable attachment.
 In summation. Note that it often happens that when the denounced
 person is uncertain whether the sentence to be passed will be against
 him, he often resorts to the remedy of appeal in order to escape the
 judge’s sentence by subterfuge since he is sure of his guilt. Hence, he
 lodges an appeal against the judge, citing frivolous reasons, for instance,
 that the judge kept him in detention after arrest and was unwilling to
 550 I.e., in his initial, verbal response to the lodging of the appeal.
 551 I.e., last afternoon office.
 552 Eymeric specifies “house of Preachers,” meaning the local convent of Dominican friars.
 553 Should be “eighth.” (In Eymeric, this sentence is simply an additional note in the seventh point;
 when this was converted into an independent point here, it was mistakenly given the wrong
 number.)
652
 The Hammer of Witches 256A–C
 256B
 256C
 release him to a suitable surety, and other specious, frivolous arguments.
 When this appeal is presented to the judge, he should ask for a copy
 of the appeal, and when he has it, he should respond immediately or
 two days later, in this response fixing for the appellant the day, hour and
 place for the giving and receiving of the attachment that the judge will
 decide upon (within the statutory deadline, for instance, the tenth, fif
teenth, twentieth or thirtieth day of such-and-such month). Within the
 period of time set for this deadline, the judge should carefully examine
 the copy of the appeal and the prejudicial rulings (reasons) because of
 which he is appealing, and with a good panel of legal experts he should
 deliberate about whether he should present an unfavorable attachment,
 that is, a negative response, thereby quashing the appeal, or a favorable
 attachment, that is, an affirmative response (“reverential letter”) to be
 sent to the judge to whom the person is appealing, thereby deferring
 to the appellant. If the judge sees that the reasons for the appeal are
 false (frivolous) and void, and that the appellant wishes only to escape
 judgment through subterfuge or to delay it, he should give an unfavor
able attachment (one of refusal). If, however, he sees that the rulings are
 in fact prejudicial, having been unjustly imposed upon him and being
 irremediable, or if he is uncertain whether this is so, or else, being worn
 out by the malice of the appellant, he wishes to relieve himself of such a
 burden, he should present to the appellant a favorable (or “reverential”)
 attachment.
 Upon the arrival of the deadline set for the appellant, if the judge has
 not yet drawn up the attachment (response), or is not ready for some
 other reason, he can issue a postponement, with either a single peremp
tory deadline or one after another, down to the thirtieth day, which
 is the final statutory deadline for presenting a favorable attachment. If,
 on the other hand, he has drawn it up and is ready, he can immediately
 give the attachment to the appellant.
 If he decides to give an unfavorable attachment (one of denial), upon
 the arrival of the peremptory deadline set by him, he will present it in
 writing in the following manner.
 “Andtheaforementioned judge,inresponsetotheaforemen
tioned interposed appeal (if it deserves to be called an appeal) states that
 he has conducted and intends to conduct the proceedings justly and in
 accordance with theCanon’ssanctions”–or“Imperialstatutes or laws”
“and did not deviate from the path of either554 law and does not intend
 554 I.e., secular or ecclesiastical. This distinction is added to the discussion of Eymeric, who men
tions only the “law.”
Part III 256C–257A
 653
 to, and by no means made a ruling to the appellant’s prejudice and does
 not intend to. He had no such understanding, as is made clear by the
 specious nature of the alleged reasons.” He should go through them 256D
 individually. “For he did not make a prejudicial ruling in arresting him
 and holding him in detention after his arrest, because the judge was
 and is reasonably obliged to keep him in detention after his arrest as
 someone convicted of heresy”– or “vehemently suspected in the judge’s
 eyes”– “since he was denouncedtothejudgeforsuch-and-suchheretical
 depravity, and the judge had many witnesses against him. Nor did the
 judge make a prejudicial ruling in his refusal to release him to a surety.
 Since the charge of heresy is one that concerns more significant crimes,
 and since the appellant persisted in his denial after being convicted,
 he was and is by no means to be released even to the greatest surety,
 but was and is to be detained in imprisonment.” In this way, the judge
 should go through all the other reasons, and when this is done he should
 say the following. “Hence, it is apparent that the judge conducted the
 proceedings in an appropriate and just manner, by no means deviated
 from the path of the law, and did not make a prejudicial ruling in any
 regard. Rather, the appellant is striving to escape judgment through the
 subterfuge of using specious, contrived reasons to make an unjust and
 inappropriate appeal. For these reasons, his appeal is frivolous and void,
 having been lodged because of no prejudicial ruling and being errant
 in form and content. Since the laws do not defer to frivolous appeals 257A
 and neither should judges,555 the judge states that he is not granting the
 appeal that has been lodged nor intends to do so, and that he is not
 deferring to him and does not intend to do so. He offers this response
 as an unfavorable attachment to the aforementioned Such-and-Such,
 who is making an inappropriate appeal in this way, and orders it to
 be immediately inserted directly after the appeal that was presented to
 him.”
 With this, he should hand it over to the notary who presented the
 appeal to him.
 Whenthe unfavorable attachmenthasbeengrantedinthis
 waytothe appellant, the judge should immediately resume the proceed
ings and carry out his duty, ordering the person to be arrested (put into
 detention) or seized or giving him a deadline for his appearance before
 the judge, or something similar that would make it apparent that he is
 not ceasing to act as judge. He will resume the proceedings against the
 555 This clause is copied from the first line of Liber Sextus 2.2.5 (“Quum appellationibus”), which
 deals with frivolous appeals.
654
 The Hammer of Witches 257A–C
 257B
 257C
 appellant until he is prohibited from doing so by the judge with whom
 the appeal has been lodged. The judge should, however, be careful not
 to make any alteration regarding the status of the appellant by arresting
 him or, if he already has been arrested, by releasing him from prison, or
 by doing anything else, from the hour when the appeal was presented
 to him until he grants to him the unfavorable attachment. From that
 point on, however, he will be able, as has already been stated, to do these
 things if justice requires, until he is prohibited by the judge with whom
 the appeal has been lodged. In that case, he should send the appellant to
 that judge with the protocols closed and sealed and with a reliable and
 safe guard, under appropriate surety, if necessary.
 If the judge decides to grant a favorable attachment (a reverential
 letter), upon the arrival of the peremptory deadline assigned to the
 appellant for the giving and receiving of the attachment, he will grant it
 in writing in the following manner.
 “And the aforementioned judge, in response to the appeal
 that has been lodged (if it deserves to be called an appeal) states that he
 conducted the proceedings in the present case in a just manner and as
 he ought to have and not otherwise, and does not think that he ruled to
 the prejudice of the appellant, as is clear in terms of the alleged reasons.”
 He should run through them individually. “He did not rule to his prej
udice in saying...” He should run through the reasons for the appeal
 individually, responding in a better way556 and as truthfully as he can.557
 He should conclude as follows. “Hence, it is apparent that the judge
 in no way ruled to the prejudice of the appellant or gave him cause
 for the appeal, and that instead the appellant feared that the proceed
ings would result in justice according to his demerits. For this reason,
 his appeal is frivolous and void, not having been lodged on account of
 any prejudicial ruling, and according to the law the judge should not
 defer to him. Out of reverence for the Apostolic See to which the appeal
 was made, however, the judge states that he is granting this appeal and
 is making and intends to defer to the appellant, remitting this entire
 matter to Our Most Holy Lord the Pope and to the Apostolic See and
 setting for the appellant a fixed period of time, namely such-and-such
 556 The sense of “better way” is not self-evident. Perhaps it means that in his response the judge
 should give a more favorable interpretation of his actions that have been cited as the grounds
 for the appeal.
 557 Note that at the least this clause implies a willingness to give an account that is less than fully
 truthful if not actually mendacious.
Part III 257C–258A
 655
 number of months counting from now, within which he has to present
 himself to OurLordthePopeintheRomanCuria558 withtheclosedand
 sealed protocols that will be turned over to him by the judge, either after
 giving suitable surety that he will present himself in the Roman Curia,
 or under a reliable and secure escort that will be granted to him by the
 judge.”
 The judge offers this response to this appellant as an affirmative 257D
 attachment, and it is ordered that it should be inserted directly after the
 appeal that was lodged and presented to him. With this, the judge will
 turn it over to the notary who presented the appeal to him.
 The prudent judge should note that as soon as he grants the
 reverential attachment to the appellant, he immediately ceases to act
 as the judge in the case for which he lodged the appeal, and he can
 no longer take cognizance of it unless the case is remitted to him by
 Our Most Holy Lord the Pope. Hence, he can no longer intervene in
 that case except in sending the appellant in this manner to Our Lord
 the Pope and in assigning to him a suitable deadline, for instance, one
 of one or two or three months, so that the judge would be able in
 the meanwhile to prepare himself and make arrangements about the
 appellant, receiving appropriate surety from him about his appearance
 and about presenting himself in the Roman Curia within the deadline 258A
 that has been set. If the appellant cannot present such surety, he should
 be sent under a reliable escort, or he should oblige himself as best he
 can to present himself within the deadline that has been set to Our Lord
 the Pope in the Roman Curia. Otherwise, this will cause the appeal
 to fail.
 If thejudgehasanothercaseinwhichheisconductingtheproceedings
 against her559 but he560 has not lodged an appeal, he will continue to act
 as judge as before. After the appeal has been allowed and the reverential
 attachment granted, even if the appellant is accused and denounced
 before the judge on other charges of heresy which were not at issue in
 the case for which he lodged theappeal, he does notcease to act as judge.
 Rather, he may proceed freely with informing himself and examining
 witnesses, just as before. Once the first case is finished in the Roman
 Curia or remitted to the judge, he is free to carry out the proceedings in
 the second one.
 558 The Roman Curia is the term for the papal administration.
 559 An inadvertent slip into the feminine gender.
 560 Back to the generalizing masculine.
656
 The Hammer of Witches 258A–C
 258B
 258C
 Judges should note that they should send the protocols closed and
 sealed to the judges in the Roman Curia who are to render justice after
 examining the merits of the protocol. Inquisitors561 should not take the
 trouble to litigate against the appellants there, but should send them off
 to be judged by judges responsible for them there.562 If the inquisitors
 are unwilling to play a role against the appellants, these judges will, on
 the basis of their office, conduct the proceedings at the insistence of the
 appellants, if they desire an end to the matter.
 The judges should also note that if they are summoned in person at
 the insistence of the appellants and they appear, they should nonetheless
 make sure not to take an oath in the case at all, but should take care to
 present the protocols and turn over the entire case, and be sure to return
 as quickly as possible in order to avoid being worn out by the fatigue,
 misfortunes, hard work and damnable expenses there. For in that case
 damage to the Church ensues and the heretics are strengthened, and
 afterwards the judges563 do not find so much favor or reverence and are
 not feared in the way that their presence now causes. Also, when all the
 other heretics see that the judges are being worn out and detained in
 the Roman Curia, they will raise their horns, and they will feel disdain
 and malice, and become bolder in sowing the seeds of heresy. Then,
 when action is taken against them, they will appeal in a similar manner.
 The other564 judges are also rendered feebler at prosecuting matters of
 the Faith and exterminating heretics, if they fear that through similar
 appeals they will be wornoutbywearisomemisfortunes.Alltheseresults
 will be highly detrimental to the interests of the Holy Faith and Church
 of God, and may the Church’s Groom565 deign to save her from each of
 them!
 561 Another reference to inquisitors that has been inadvertently left unmodified.
 562 The late medieval papal curia had a reputation for inefficiency and corruption, and the present
 denunciation comes from the personal experience of Eymeric, who introduces the passage
 (entitled “That inquisitors should not waste time in the Roman Curia”) with the following
 statement: “Many years ago now, I, Brother Nicholas Eymeric, Inquisitor in Aragon, once wore
 downmanymenintheRomanCuriauntiltheircondemnationforthechargeofheresy,astheir
 demerits demanded, and conversely, I have also been worn down by various tedious, miserable
 toils and expenses, and so I have experienced the ways of the Curia. Hence, it is my advice
 that inquisitors should take care not to conduct personally or take part in matters of the Faith
 that are transferred by appeal to the Roman Curia unless they are confident that they have full
 pockets and great favor in the Curia and that their business will be finished in short order,
 things about which it is not easy to have reasonable confidence.”
 563 I.e., ecclesiastical. (Here Eymeric was actually referring to the deleterious effect that it would
 have on bishops if the inquisitors were tied up with appeals in Rome.)
 564 I.e., secular.
 565 I.e., Christ.
Part III
 657
 Praise be to God, extermination to heretics, peace to the living, and
 eternal repose to the dead. Amen.
 [Note on Sources
 Major identified sources for Q. 35:
 Eymeric, Dir. Pt. 3 “On an appeal that is lodged from an inquisitor”
 (de appellatione que fit ab inquisitore) and “That inquisitors should
 not waste time in the Roman Curia” (quod inquisitores non debent
 moram trahere in romana curia)]