The Witch's Master 
Grimoire: An 
Encyclopedia of Charms, 
Spells, Formulas, and 
Magical Rites
 Lady Sabrina
 The Career Press
The
 Witch’s
 Master
 Grimoire
 An Encyclopedia of
 Charms, Spells, Formulas,
 and Magical Rites

The
 Witch’s
 Master
 Grimoire
 An Encyclopedia of
 Charms, Spells, Formulas,
 and Magical Rites
 By
 Lady Sabrina
 NEW PAGE BOOKS
 A division of The Career Press, Inc.
 Franklin Lakes, NJ
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Copyright  2001 by Lady Sabrina
 All rights reserved under the Pan-American and International Copyright
 Conventions. This book may not be reproduced, in whole or in part, in any
 form or by any means electronic or mechanical, including photocopying,
 recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system now known or
 hereafter invented, without written permission from the publisher, The Career
 Press.
 THE WITCH’S MASTER GRIMOIRE
 Cover design by Diane Chin
 Printed in the U.S.A. by Book-mart Press
 To order this title, please call toll-free 1-800-CAREER-1 (NJ and Canada:
 201-848-0310) to order using VISA or MasterCard, or for further information
 on books from Career Press.
 The Career Press, Inc., 3 Tice Road, PO Box 687,
 Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
 www.newpagebooks.com
 www.careerpress.com
 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
 Sabrina, Lady.
 The witch’s master grimoire : an encyclopedia of charms, spells,
 formulas, and magical rites / by Lady Sabrina.
 p.
 cm.
 Includes bibliographical references and index.
 ISBN 1-56414-482-8 (pbk.)
 1. Witchcraft—Encyclopedias.  2. Ritual—Encyclopedias.  3. Magic—
 Encyclopedias.  I. Title.
 BF1566. S25  2000
 133.4’3—dc21
 00-033911
 4
Letter
 DEDICATION
 Everyone has a special friend—that special someone who
 is always there to help, give advice, whether you want it or
 not, and lend a hand when one is needed. I have been blessed
 with two such special people, two folks who always seem to
 be there when I need them; to help with computer glitches,
 and there have been hundreds; to drive me and a sick pet to
 the animal hospital on New Year’s eve; to help with moun
tains of mail, grocery shopping, and all the  things it takes to
 to run a church and school.
 To Autumn and Aristaeus, I thank you, I love you, and I
 don’t know what I would do without you.
 5
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 6
CONTENTS
 Introduction 15
 A 19
 Air 19
 Air Magick 19
 Air Incense and Fragrance 22
 Amulet 23
 Amulet Magick 23
 Animal 26
 Animal Magick 27
 Astral 33
 Astral Projection 34
 Athame 35
 Consecration of the Athame 35
 B 37
 Banish 37
 Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram 37
 Besom (Broom) 40
 Besom Magick 41
8
 The Witch’ ’’ ’’s Master Grimoire
 Binding 43
 Binding Magick 43
 Book of Shadows 46
 Book Blessing 47
 C 49
 Candle 49
 Candle Magick Spells 53
 Charms 57
 Charm Magick 58
 Crystal 60
 Crystal Magick 61
 D 65
 Dragon 65
 Dragon Magick 66
 Drawing Down the Moon 68
 E 70
 Earth 70
 Earth Magick 70
 Earth Incense and Fragrance 73
 Eye 74
 F 76
 Fairy 76
The Fairy Realm 77
 Fairy Magick 80
 Fire 83
 Fire Magick 84
 Fire Incense and Fragrance 85
 G 87
 Glyph 87
 Golem 88
 Gypsy 90
 Gypsy Magick 91
 H 95
 Hair 95
 Hair Magick 96
 Herbs 96
 Herb Magick 98
 Hex 100
 How to Make a Hex Sign 102
 I 103
 Ice 103
 Ice Magick 103
 Incense 104
 Magickal Incense Recipes 107
J 108
 Jewels 108
 Properties of Jewels and Gem Stones 108
 Jewel and Gem Magick 111
 K 113
 Key 113
 Knot 114
 Knot Magick 115
 L 118
 Lamp 118
 Lamp Magick 119
 Love 120
 Love Magick 120
 M 126
 Mandrake (Mandragora) 126
 Metal 127
 Planetary Qualities of Metals 128
 Metal Magick 128
 Mirror 131
 Mirror Magick 131
 Moon 133
 Moon Magick 135
N 139
 Numerology 139
 Numbers and Their Meanings 140
 Numerology Analysis 141
 O 146
 Oils 146
 P 149
 Pentacle 149
 Physical Properties of the Pentacle 150
 Planets 153
 Planetary Correspondences 155
 Poppet 160
 Love-Binding Spell 161
 Personal Success Poppet 162
 The Healing Poppet 164
 Potion 164
 Love-Drawing Potion 165
 R 168
 Runes 168
 Rune Stone Meanings 169
 Rune Layout Patterns 176
S 179
 Shamanism 179
 The Vision Quest 180
 Medicine Power 181
 Cleansing and Smudging 181
 Sacred Pipe 182
 Medicine Wheel 182
 Guardian Spirit 183
 Sun 183
 T 185
 Talisman 185
 Talisman Seals from the Key of Solomon 186
 Triple Goddess 190
 U 193
 Uncrossing 193
 Uncrossing Ritual 193
 Unicorn 195
 Unicorn Enchantment 195
 V 196
 Visualization 196
W 198
 Wand 198
 Wand Consecration 199
 Water 200
 Water Magick 200
 Water Incense and Fragrance 202
 Witch Bottle 203
 Y 205
 Yarrow 205
 Yarrow Love Spell 205
 Z 206
 Zodiac 206
 The Zodiac Wheel of the Year 207
 The Twelve Signs of the Zodiac 207
 Bibliography 215
 About the Author 219

Letter
 INTRODUCTION
 Magick is the most vital force in our lives. It gives us
 personal mastery over our destiny so we are no longer vic
tims of fate. To study magick is to study life, and to under
stand the concept of controlled coincidence. Things do not
 happen randomly, but rather in conjunction or answer to a
 previously set up condition. The past is what controls the
 present, and the present is what creates the future.
 In essence, magick, is the rediscovery of your basic abil
ity to create. What you create or make happen today, is going
 to reflect on how you are able to deal with tomorrow. If you
 were to get that much needed pay raise today, you could pay
 your bills tomorrow, and even plan for something special in
 the future.
 Learning to do magick is like learning to drive—you learn
 by doing. You take a little time each day to practice, and
 pretty soon you have it mastered. By learning to drive, you
 increase your mobility and thus your realm of opportuni
ties. You can suddenly go places and do things you weren’t
 able to do  before. Each time you use magick, your ability to
 control your life increases, and the better your chances are
 of getting what you want.
 Discover how Witchcraft and magick can help you lead a
 better, more fulfilling life. Arranged alphabetically, the
 15
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 magickal rites in this book can  help you solve those annoy
ing,  everyday problems that cause stress and anxiety. Each
 entry is fully defined, and then followed by time tested spells
 that really work—spells that will fit into your fast-paced life
 style. Best of all, you don’t  need to be a trained initiate, or
 have special powers, to make use of the material in this book.
 All you need is an open mind, and the desire to succeed.
 The word ‘Witch’ derives from the Anglo-Saxon wicca “a
 magickian who weakens the power of evil, or one who is able
 to bend reality using natural forces.”
 Generally, Witchcraft  employs the powers of nature to
 create a charm, philtre, potion or spell to bring about the
 desired change. The physical object then becomes the cata
lyst or focal point of the magickal operation.
 You decide what it is you want, and then you create a
 spell or magickal rite to get it. You are in control at all times,
 and the outcome depends on your focused will. The only
 limitations on magick, are those you  place upon it.
 Spells are one of the most popular and delightful ways
 to approach magick. Since they do not require any specific
 amount of room, elaborate equipment, or special training,
 anyone can do them. The only thing you really need to make
 a spell work is, a strong desire to have something or someone.
 So, with all this in mind are you ready to do magick? Are
 you ready to cast that magick spell that will help you get the
 things you really need and want? If the answer is yes, then
 you have the right book in your hand. The charms, spells,
 and magickal formulas in this book are easy to follow, and
 do not demand impossible-to-find ingredients.  In fact, most
 of spells and rituals in this book make use of everyday things
 like herbs, plants,  minerals, and candles. For those magickal
 operations that do require special items, such as oils or
 incense,  recipes are provided.
 16
Introduction
 The only thing you really need to know is “when” is the
 best time  to cast a spell, or how to coordinate your magickal
 operation  to coincide with the phases of the moon. (Moon
 phases can be found in The Old Farmers Almanac, or on
 any good Astrological Calendar.) A simple rule of thumb  is,
 use the new moon to begin projects, attract money, or regen
erate friendships and health;  the full moon to channel en
ergy toward projects involving personal success, career, love,
 and marriage; the waning moon to get rid of negative influ
ences, and bad situations.
 Last but not least, try not to be disillusioned if your
 magick doesn’t work immediately. Some spells just take
 longer to work than others do. You must have faith, other
wise you block the flow of energy and  impede your progress.
 Remember, every powerful thought you send out leaves an
 imprint on the etheric world. (For our purposes, etheric per
tains to the invisible world, which vibrates at a different level
 than the physical world. The realm of angels, gods, and other
 life forms which communicate with humans.) So if you re
ally believe in what you are doing—then it will come true.
 17
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 18
A
 A
 AIR
 Air is symbolically related to breath. It is the subtle realm
 between the physical and spiritual planes. Air provides us
 with inspiration, illumination, and the ability to communi
cate our ideas to others. Air represents new beginnings, the
 thought process, and creativity. Air helps us to focus and
 direct energy toward a desired goal. It is our ability to think
 and reason.
 AIR MAGICK
 Knot the Wind
 Items needed: 3’ strand of blue cord; compass.
 The calling or raising of the wind is a very old magickal
 process, originally used when the wind was vital for sailing.
 Witches were reputed to harness the power of the wind in a
 knotted cord, and then sell it to sailors. When untied, the
 first knot would bring a gentle breeze. The second would
 bring a strong wind, and the third a gale.
 Modern Witches use the knot spell to for inspiration and
 creativity. To harness the power of the wind you will need a
 strand of blue cord and a compass. Go to the highest hilltop
 19
20
 The Witch’ ’’ ’’s Master Grimoire
 you can find. Face the East. Take several deep, cleansing
 breaths. Hold the cord above your head. When the wind
 begins to blow, tie the first knot, as you say the following:
 I knot the wind
 The wind of desire
 I knot the wind
 The wind that shall inspire.
 Repeat the above conjuration as you tie the second and
 third knots. Take a few moments to feel the cleansing power
 Air Correspondence Chart
 VALUES Inspiration, illumination,
 awareness, perception
 COLORS Blue, silver, white, gray
 SYMBOLS Circle, bird, bell, sylph, flute,
 chimes, clouds
 TOOLS Wand, rod, staff
 PLANTS Almond, broom, clover,
 eyebright, lavender, pine
 STONES Amethyst, sapphire, citrine,
 azurite
 PLACES Sky, mountain tops, tree tops,
 bluffs, airplanes
 ZODIAC Aquarius, gemini, libra
 TIME Spring, dawn
 ARCHANGEL Raphael
 DIRECTION East
 PROCESS Thinking, reading, speaking,
 praying, singing
A
 of the wind. Ask the wind to free you from all negative
 thoughts and vibrations. Take your cord and hang it above
 your desk or work space. Whenever  you feel the need for
 inspiration, untie the first knot and say the following:
 I free the wind
 The wind of desire
 I free the wind
 My mind to inspire.
 Balloon Magick
 Items needed: small balloon filled with helium,
 parchment paper, 6-8” string.
 Everyone loves balloons. They are like birds, free to float
 wherever the wind may take them. The idea behind balloon
 magick is to free your wishes from human bonds so they will
 have a chance to manifest.
 The best time to perform balloon magick is on New Year’s
 Eve. Choose the color of a balloon which most matches your
 desire, and have it filled with helium:
 Red:
 Green:
 Pink:
 Blue:
 Courage, strength, and power.
 Money, luck, and personal goals.
 Friendship and love.
 Creativity and peace.
 Orange: Action and attraction.
 Black:
 Protection and release.
 Yellow: Selling and communication.
 White:
 Spiritual and psychic awareness.
 21
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Ten minutes before the hour of midnight, write your wish
 on a small piece of parchment paper. With a small piece of
 string, attach the paper to the balloon. At the strike of mid
night let your balloon go as you chant the following passage.
 Float now free
 Bring to me
 What I wish
 So Mote It Be!
 Turn around and don’t look back. Forget about the wish,
 and allow the powers of the universe to make it come true.
 AIR INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
 Ambergris (love, lust)
 Wear ambergris to attract love. Mix Ambergris with a small
 amount of vanilla, burn on the night of the full moon to
 increase passion.
 Benzoin (purification, prosperity)
 Burn benzoin to clear a room of unwanted vibrations. Mix
 benzoin with frankincense and burn during the new moon
 to clear confusion, and increase psychic powers.
 Lavender (love, protection)
 Wear lavender oil to soothe the mind and body, and bring
 visions of love. Mix lavender with sage and burn during the
 waning moon to purify and protect home.
 Pine (healing, money)
 Burn to clear air and help with breathing problems. Mix pine
 with eucalyptus and burn to enhance life and bring money.
 22
A
 Sage (wisdom, protection)
 Wear sage oil to clear confusion. Place sage leaves under a
 door mat to protect the home from negativity. Burn sage  during
 the waning moon for protection and to clear confusion.
 Star Anise (psychic power, luck)
 Burn or wear the seeds to increase psychic power. On a windy
 day scatter the seeds in the wind to bring luck.
 Sweetgrass (spiritual attunement)
 Burn sweetgrass to call in the spirits. Mix sweetgrass with lav
ender and burn to protect the home from unwanted spirits.
 AMULET
 The amulet is an object that has been left in its virgin
 state and has been psychically charged with a specific pur
pose in mind. Amulets are passive in their abilities to com
municate energy patterns. Only when their barriers have been
 crossed do they react or retaliate. For example, the horse
shoe that hangs over the door will only bring good luck to
 those who pass beneath it.
 Almost any symbolic object—special stones, shells, wood
 carvings, statues—can be turned into an amulet. To charge
 an object as an amulet, hold it in your hand, think about what
 the object represents, and visualize the object becoming a
 symbol of that concept as you force your intention into it.
 AMULET MAGICK
 Ankh
 The ankh symbol stands for everlasting life and
 regeneration. The ankh amulet works best when
 made from wood, metal, or faience. The ankh helps
 23
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 its wearer live life to the fullest degree and is sometimes used
 for success, as well as for protection.
 Cross
 The cross is the primordial sign for the union of
 opposites: spirit and matter, positive and negative,
 male and female, sacred and secular. The cross is
 the conjunction of all planes in existence. It is worn
 for protection.
 Eye or Udjat (the Eye of Horus)
 Whether facing left or right, the eye is a form of
 protection and good health. Because of its asso
ciation with Ra (the high god of Egypt), the udjat
 was considered to be a potent amulet that would
 bring strength, vigor, and soundness to its wearer.
 Feather
 The feather is a symbol of truth, transcendent
 knowledge, and power. It represents the wind, the
 heavens, and the soul’s journey to other realms.
 The feather is considered to be a good omen and
 brings good fortune and luck in games of skill.
 Hecate Wheel
 The symbol of the goddess of the crossroads, and
 emblem of the eternity of Witchcraft. It can be
 used for protection or to help invoke the goddess
 herself. The symbol is usually imprinted on a small
 round disk of silver, wood, or ceramic, and is worn
 on a cord around the neck or carried in a pouch.
 24
A
 Key
 The key is considered to be a universal symbol
 of life, knowledge, initiation, wisdom, and free
dom. The key brings opportunity, offers choice,
 and signifies new beginnings. A gold key brings
 good luck, prosperity, and opportunity, and is good for busi
ness. The silver key helps one retain knowledge, imparts
 wisdom, and frees the spirit.
 Pentacle
 The symbol of the spirit in control of the forces
 of nature or the elements of ordinary life. This
 is usually made of silver, gold, pewter or cop
per, and is worn around the neck for protec
tion from negative vibrations. (This can be
 consecrated into a talisman, or just worn as a protective
 amulet).
 Scarab
 This is a replica of the Egyptian dung beetle. It
 is usually made from stone or clay. The beetle
 (scarabaeus sacer) was the symbol of the sun
 god Khepera, a self created and self-sustaining
 force. The scarab represents life, regeneration,
 and renewal—divine providence. To wear the scarab brings
 health and strength. It also provides powerful protection
 against all harm.
 Unicorn
 The unicorn is a lunar emblem of chastity, pu
rity, and divine justice. To own or wear a Uni
corn brings security and protection. The root of
 the Unicorn is a symbol of love, and used to bind
 the affections of another.
 25
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Yin-Yang
 Chinese cosmic symbol. The yin-yang symbol
 has become very popular with the New Age move
ment, because it represents the universe and all
 its possibilities. It is the embodiment and unifi
cation of all opposites—the feminine (yin) and
 masculine (yang) principles. When worn as an amulet it serves
 as protection and a means to bring one into alignment with
 the cosmos.
 ANIMAL
 It has long been believed that humans have a kinship
 with animals, and that this kinship allows us to draw on their
 special qualities. When choosing an animal as a totem (a
 hereditary badge or emblem for a tribe or clan that serves as
 a personal sacred talisman), you call upon the power of the
 animal and are drawn into harmony with its strength and
 power. Totems appear in dreams and bring healing, abun
dance, strength and power, and protection. Native Ameri
can Indians believe that when you align your consciousness
 with that of an animal, that animal will speak to you in a
 special way, the way of power. This way of power is consid
ered to be very potent. The totem animal then becomes your
 spiritual ally and safely guides you through life’s trials and
 tribulations. For example, if you feel the need for more inde
pendence, you might want to work with the cat. If you are
 faced with a problem which calls for swift action, then the
 horse would be a good choice.
 The best way to make contact with your power animal is
 during meditation. Choose a place where you can be alone
 for at least 15 minutes. Dim the lights and turn off all out
side distractions, including the television, radio, and stereo.
 Seat yourself in a comfortable chair and relax your body.
 Begin at the top of the head and work downward.
 26
A
 Tilt your head forwards, backwards, and then from side
 to side, breathing deeply three times each. Relax.
 Continue down through the neck, chest, back, arms and
 abdomen, breathing deeply three times for each body sec
tion. Relax.
 Then continue on down through the thighs, knees,
 ankles, feet, and toes. Check all muscles you can feel and be
 sure that they are relaxed. If your breathing is even and calm,
 relaxation will come quickly and easily.
 As you direct your breathing, exclude all thoughts and
 sensations and fix your consciousness totally on the breath
ing process. Let your mind slip into a semiconscious state
 and ask for your power animal to appear. When the animal
 comes into focus, relax and allow yourself to connect with
 the animal on a mental level. Invite the animal to work with
 you and give you a measure of its power. When you feel you
 have absorbed the qualities or power needed, thank your
 power animal, and return to a full conscious state of mind.
 ANIMAL MAGICK
 The following animals all have magickal qualities that
 can be harnessed in times of need. Choose an animal to work
 with that best represents a personality characteristic you
 would like to develop or improve.
 Bear (introspection, stability, wisdom)
 The strength of the bear lies in its ability to enter into a
 state of hibernation. In this state it is able to digest the year’s
 experience. The bear gains wisdom through sleep in dream
 time. When warmth and sunlight return, the bear emerges
 strong, stable, and with renewed vitality. Bear is strongly pro
tective of home and family.
 27
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Bear Associations
 Direction: North
 Element: Earth
 Deities: Artemis, Diana, Thor, Cernunnos
 The bear will teach you great wisdom. He will also teach
 you the value of stillness and introspection. When you feel
 the need for stability, call on the bear during meditation.
 Ask him to bring you wisdom.
 Buffalo (abundance, prayer, thanksgiving)
 The buffalo was the major source of food for the Plains
 Indians. The buffalo provided meat, hide for clothing, and
 hooves for glue. The buffalo was considered sacred in many
 traditions because it represented the ideal that when all was
 in balance there was great abundance. When there was abun
dance, prayer and thanksgiving were offered in gratitude.
 Buffalo Associations
 Direction: North and South
 Elements: Earth and Fire
 Deities: Apis, Cernunnos, Jupiter, Thor, Zeus
 When you feel out of synch with those around you or
 your environment, ask the buffalo for help. Work with the
 buffalo during meditation. When you feel the need to pray
 or give thanks for blessings received, ask the buffalo to help
 you express your emotions in a proper manner.
 Cat (independence, secrets)
 The cat is very independent, a mighty hunter, and has
 many secrets. The cat was worshiped by the Egyptians be
cause of its cunning and ability to purge the house of unde
sirable elements. Bast, the cat-headed goddess, was
 28
A
 considered to be a great protector of women. In ancient
 Rome, the cat was a symbol of freedom. The cat is known for
 hiding and being secretive.
 Cat Associations
 Direction: North and South
 Elements: Earth and Fire
 Deities: Bast, Brighid, Hathor, Isis, Maat, Osiris, Ra
 If there is something you need to find out about yourself
 or others, ask the cat for help during meditation. If you feel
 overburdened and feel the need for more for independence,
 invite the cat into your dreams.
 Dog (friendship, loyalty)
 Dogs have long been considered man’s best friend. The
 dog is loyal to a fault, content with the bare necessities of
 life, and, like the wolf, protective of home and family. For
 thousands of years, dogs have been honored for their loy
alty. Hermes (Mercury) was frequently accompanied by his
 faithful dog. Argos, Odysseus’s dog, was the only one to rec
ognize him when he returned from the Trojan War. Dogs
 have a keen sense of smell, hearing, and sight. It is said they
 can sense evil and death approaching.
 Dog Associations
 Direction: North
 Elements: Earth
 Deities: Odin, Lugh, Demeter, Mercury/Hermes, Ishtar
 Use the dog when you feel the need for support from
 your friends, or when you feel loyalties are divided. During
 meditation ask the dog to protect you from the negative
 thoughts and vibrations others send your way.
 29
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Eagle (spirit, connection to the Divine)
 The eagle is believed to be the messenger or connection
 between humans and the divine. The eagle has the ability to
 live in the realm of the spirit and yet remain connected to
 the Earth and its inhabitants. The eagle represents the grace
 that is achieved through hard work. The eagle teaches
 humans how to have courage and learn from the lows in life
 as well as the highs.
 Eagle Associations
 Direction: East
 Element: Air
 Deities: Zeus, Indra, Jupiter, Mithras, Apollo
 When you need help with spiritual development ask the
 eagle for help. In meditation merge with the eagle for help
 with rising above material desires. Ask the eagle to enter your
 dreams and impart knowledge of about the Ancient Ones.
 Elephant (wisdom, stability)
 The elephant has always been revered for its size, intelli
gence, and devotion to family. The Greek philosopher
 Aristotle admired the elephant for its great wisdom and
 intelligence. In Hinduism, the elephant-headed god Ganesha
 is invoked before any undertaking for his wisdom. Ganesha
 is said to bring stability and abundance to shop owners.
 Elephant Associations
 Direction: North
 Element: Earth
 Deities: Ganesh, Indra, Siva
 If you’re having problems making decisions, work with the
 elephant for wisdom and stability. If you’re considering start
ing a business or need to attract more customers to your present
 business, ask the elephant-headed god Ganesha for help.
 30
A
 Horse (swift action, power)
 The horse has long been a symbol of swiftness and power.
 In ancient mythology it is the horse that bears the heroes
 and the gods across the earth, and even across the sky, at
 great speed. The horse is physical power and unearthly
 power. In shamanic practices, the horse enables the shaman
 to fly through the air to reach the heavens or spirit realm.
 The horse is able to carry great burdens for long distances
 with ease.
 Horse Associations
 Direction: North, East, South, West
 Element: Earth, Air, Fire, Water
 Deities: Epona, Helios, Brighid,
 Apollo, Godiva, Mars, Artemis
 When you need to respond swiftly to a situation, call on
 the horse. If you need more personal power, or are overbur
dened by too much work, ask the horse to give you strength.
 Owl (clairvoyance, magick, astral projection)
 The owl has been called the night eagle because of its
 connection to the world of spirit. The owl hunts at night.
 The owl can see in the dark and pinpoint prey by sound.
 Humans may be afraid of the dark, but night is owl’s friend.
 The owl is silent; you can’t hear it when it flies. The owl has
 often been associated with the Witch because of its connec
tion to the night.
 Owl Associations
 Direction: East
 Element: Air
 Deities: Athena, Lilith, Hecate, Bloeuweed,
 Isis, Minerva
 31
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 During meditation, ask the owl to help you unveil the
 truth and see things clearly. The owl can also help you learn
 to interpret omens and intuit dreams. Before doing any kind
 of divination, ask the owl to be present and help you inter
pret things correctly.
 Skunk (reputation, respect)
 The significance of the skunk is no joke. This adorable,
 furry little animal has a reputation that demands great
 respect. Due to its distinctive behavior, humans, and other
 animals, give this tiny, odoriferous creature a wide berth. The
 fundamental concept here is respect. The skunk’s message
 to all is walk your talk, respect yourself and others, and you will
 create a position of strength and an honored reputation.
 Skunk Associations
 Direction: North, East
 Element: Earth, Air
 Deities: Diana, Cernunnos, Artemis
 If you feel a need for respect from friends or family, call
 on the skunk. He is sure to liven things up. If you live alone,
 ask the skunk to warn you of danger and protect your home.
 Wolf (power, protection, psychic development)
 Wolves howl at the moon, they mate openly, and walk
 silently through the woods. The wolf lives by instinct. The
 wolf is the pathfinder, the discoverer of new ideas who
 returns to his family to teach them the ways of the world.
 The Wolf has keen senses, works with the power of the moon,
 and is a symbol of psychic energy.
 32
A
 Wolf Associations
 Direction: North
 Element: Earth
 Deities: Loki, Odin, Diana, Artemis,
 Brighid, the Morrigan
 When you are in need of more personal power or psy
chic energy call on the wolf. The wolf will take you to his
 private den and teach you how to walk silently and work
 with the power of the moon to build psychic skills.
 ASTRAL
 The astral plane is the working ground of the magickian,
 where the truth about all things is revealed. It is the place of
 angels, demons, and fairies, host to the elemental forces of
 nature. To the Witch and magickian alike, the astral plane
 holds the secret of power, the key to the creation of miracu
lous effects on the physical plane.
 The astral plane has often been defined as the realm of
 visual imagination, a celestial realm where all things are pos
sible. As a result of its ethereal atmosphere, the astral plane
 remains a great mystery to most. For the fearless explorer,
 however, the astral plane is nothing more than an uncharted
 realm waiting to be discovered.
 The astral plane is just as real to the astral body as the
 material plane is to the physical body. To the traveler on the
 astral plane, the scenery and everything connected with it seems
 as solid as the most solid material appears to the physical eye.
 One may travel from one region of the astral to another simply
 by an act of will without ever moving the physical body.
 When consciousness operates outside of the body it takes
 the mind with it. However, rarely is the mind fully conscious.
 This is why, although over 90 percent of us project, seldom
 33
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 do we remember our experiences. Usually they are forgotten
 or passed off as vivid dreams.
 ASTRAL PROJECTION
 Start by selecting a peaceful place and time of the day
 where you will not be disturbed. Although this exercise can
 be done in a chair, it is best to lie flat on your back on a firm,
 but not hard, surface. Next, stretch out and loosen your cloth
ing. Relax. Follow your breath, fixing your consciousness
 totally on the breathing process.
 Make a conscious effort to go completely limp. Begin
 with your feet and, working upwards, relax all of the muscles
 in your body. This should take about four or five minutes.
 While in this relaxed state, visualize your inner self
 becoming light and lifting free of the physical body. Imagine
 yourself floating directly above the body as though you were
 on a cloud of air. Allow yourself to experience this feeling for
 about five minutes and then slowly lower yourself (your
 astral self) back into your body. Do this exercise several times
 until you feel comfortable floating and then continue with
 the next step.
 Once you are free of the body, walk into another room.
 Go slowly and take the time to examine everything in the
 room. Take note of pictures, how furniture is arranged, and
 where objects of interest are. Do this exercise several times,
 and then have someone rearrange the room just prior to
 your journey. After you have returned to your body, write
 down exactly what you saw and where everything was posi
tioned. Return to the room and check on your accuracy. The
 results will then indicate if you actually did astrally project.
 34
A
 ATHAME
 The athame is a double-edged knife used to inscribe, or
 cast, the circle of power onto the earth or floor. It is associ
ated with the element of fire, and it represents strength, power,
 and the masculine force of nature. Since the athame is a
 weapon, it also has the power to subdue and banish rebel
lious entities or spirits.
 In magick, the athame is used for directing personal power
 and to focus energy in a desired direction. The athame also
 regulates, as well as conducts, the flow of internal expression
 toward the desired destination during magickal operations.
 CONSECRATION OF THE ATHAME
 Items needed: Athame; small bowl of water with
 three pinches of salt added; one white candle; one
 black candle; sandalwood incense.
 On the night of the full moon, place the above items on
 your altar or small table. Light both of the candles and the
 incense. Relax and focus on the athame. Pass the athame
 blade and handle through the flame of the black candle as
 you say:
 All negative thoughts be banished, all unwanted
 vibrations be gone.
 35
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Now pass the athame blade and handle through the flame
 of the white candle as you say:
 Let only the forces and powers I wish be within from this
 moment on.
 Pass the athame through the smoke of the incense,
 through the white candle flame, and then sprinkle with salt
 water as you say:
 Elements of Air, Fire, Water, and Earth.
 To this tool of the magick now give birth.
 Blessed and consecrated in this hour
 Be thou athame of strength and power.
 Wrap the athame in a red silk cloth, and keep in a safe
 place. Only use the athame for magickal rites and spellcrafting.
 36
B
 B
 BANISH
 In Witchcraft and magick, banishing usually refers to
 the casting out of unwanted energies that might influence
 or impact magickal work. The Witch or magician will usu
ally banish this negative energy from the area he or she will
 be working in prior to performing any magickal rite or spell.
 BANISHING RITUAL OF THE PENTAGRAM
 Item needed: Athame.
 The pentagram is a five-pointed star. It represents the
 four elements (earth, air, fire, water) subject to the Akasha,
 or spirit. By all accounts, it is considered to be one of the
 most powerful protection amulets of the magickal arts. No
 self respecting Witch or magician would ever leave home
 without one.
 For centuries, ceremonial magicians have used the ritual
 of the pentagram as a prelude to their mystical rites. The
 ritual serves to cleanse the working area of negative vibra
tions. It can also be used to purge oneself of detrimental or
 obsessive thoughts. The nice thing about the pentagram ritual
 is that it creates a positive atmosphere for working magic.
 37
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Begin the ritual with a short relaxing meditation to help
 clear your mind and body of stress and dissonant thoughts.
 When you feel the time is right, stand and face the East.
 Take your athame in your right hand:
 Touch your forehead and say: Ateh (thou art).
 Touch your breast and say: Malkuth (the kingdom).
 Touch the left shoulder and say: Ve-Gedulah (and the
 glory).
 Touch the right shoulder and say: Ve-Geburah (and
 the power).
 Cross your hands over your breast and say: Le-Olam
 (forever).
 Hold the athame up in front and say: Amen.
 This completes the Kabbalistic cross (a ritual devised, in
 its modern form, by the Hermetic Order of the Golden
 Dawn), or the opening of the ritual. Take several energizing
 breaths and continue with the actual inscribing of the pen
tagrams. Facing East, with your arm outstretched, trace the
 pentagram with your athame.
 When the pentagram is complete, thrust your athame
 into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
 Yod He Vau He.
 Proceed to the South. Trace the invoking pentagram in
 the air with your athame just as you did in the East. When
 38
B
 the pentagram is complete, thrust your athame into the center
 of it and chant the deity name:
 Adonai.
 Go to the West. Trace the invoking pentagram in the air
 with your athame. When the pentagram is complete, thrust
 your athame into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
 Eheieh.
 Move to the North. Trace the invoking pentagram in the
 air with your athame. When the pentagram is complete, thrust
 your athame into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
 Agla.
 Return to the East, and complete the circle by thrusting
 your athame into the pentagram you first created. Now step
 back, and with arms outstretched to form a cross, recite the
 following with great resolution:
 Before me stands Raphael,
 Behind me stands Gabriel.
 At my right hand stands Michael,
 At my left hand stands Auriel.
 Before me flames the Pentagram,
 Behind me shines the six-rayed star.
 Complete the ritual by repeating the Kabbalistic cross
 as you did in the beginning. The area is now ready for
 magickal work.
 This ritual can be done as a self-protection rite as well. I
 know some people who do it every morning upon rising.
 The pentagrams act as a shield of protection throughout
 the day. The protective power of the rite does fade and dissi
pate with time, hence the reason it needs to be repeated at
 regular intervals.
 The key to any ceremonial magickal act is visualization.
 You must be able to project a visual image of the thought-form
 39
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 you are working with, so you can see and feel it. In this case
 it would be the pentagram, a blazing star of energy and power,
 an arm’s length away.
 BESOM (BROOM)
 Hardly anything symbolizes Witchcraft more than the
 besom (pronounced BEH-sum). The idea of Witches flying
 on brooms is as old as the Craft itself. We may never find out
 just where or when this phenomenon began, but it lends
 certain magick to the tales of old.
 The significance of the besom (broom) rests with its abil
ity to sweep, and therefore clean an area of unwanted dirt.
 European folklore is full of stories about using brooms along
 with certain incantations while sweeping out the house, the
 purpose being to sweep out the evil influences along with
 the dirt. The broom has also been used to form common law
 marriages. Both parties jump over the broomstick to signify
 they are joined in a union. Today, many Wiccans and Pagans
 still jump over the broom at the end of the marriage ceremo
nies to seal their union.
 An authentic besom or Witches broom has seven dis
tinct parts (see illustration).
 1. The Staff Butt: Usually solid, but may also be hollow and
 plugged with a wood cork.
 2. The Staff: The long shaft of the broom, sometimes re
ferred to as the wand, will vary in length, thickness, and
 texture. Its carvings and decorations also vary.
 3. The Choke Ring: This binds the upper part of bristles to
 the staff and is usually made of metal, silver being the
 best as it represents the moon and goddess. Sometimes
 there may be several of these used. When more than one
 is used the first is silver, the second is gold, and the third
 is copper.
 40
B
 4. The Stalks (bristles): These are grouped evenly around the
 opposite end of the staff. The stalks should be about
 half the finished length of the broom.
 5. The Stalk Tips: The thick ends are held by the choke ring,
 with the thin ends extending. All of the stalks should be
 bending in the same direction.
 6. The Splay Ring: There is only one of these and it keeps
 the stalks evenly placed about the stalk. This ring is usu
ally made of a very strong pliable cording, as it takes up
 the strain and pressure of the use that is exerted when
 sweeping.
 7. The Stalk Butts: These are the thick ends of the bristles
 and are bound by the choke ring.
 1. The Staff Butt
 2. The Staff
 3. The Choke Ring
 BESOM (BROOM) MAGICK
 Besom Blessing
 4. The Stalks
 5. The Stalk Tips
 6. The Splay Ring
 7. The Stalk Butts
 Items needed: a small bowl of salt and one of water, a
 white candle, a small bunch of fresh rosemary, a  censer,
 a small block of church charcoal, and your besom.
 Perform this simple ceremony to bless and consecrate
 your broom. This will remove all of the negative thoughts
 and vibrations that may be attached to the broom making it
 ready for magickal works.
 41
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Place the candle, the bowl of salt, and the one of water,
 along with the censer and rosemary on a small table. Light
 the charcoal, and the white candle. Sprinkle some salt over
 the broom and then some water as you say:
 Water and Earth
 Wash thee clean,
 Of all that was
 And is unclean.
 Place some of the rosemary on the hot coal in the censer.
 Pick up the broom and pass it through the smoke of the
 burning herb, and then through the candle flame as you say:
 Essence of Air
 Flame of Fire,
 Cleanse thee of all
 But what I desire.
 The broom is now ready to use for both mundane and
 magickal works. Use your broom to purge your house of
 negative thoughts and vibrations as well as unwanted guests.
 Get Rid of Unwanted Guests
 Item needed: Besom.
 This simple spell works better than anything I have ever
 found to get folks to leave. We have all had that moment
 when people have overstayed their welcome and don’t have
 the good sense to get up and leave. Here is a surefire way to
 get them up and out the door post-haste.
 Take a broom into a room that is either facing your
 unwanted guests or is directly behind them. Close the door.
 Lay the broom on the floor with the stalk butts facing the
 direction of the guests. Stand behind the broom, and chant
 the following:
 42
B
 Get ye out beyond my door
 For I’m weary to the core!
 Take a few relaxing breaths, and visualize your guests
 leaving. Put the broom away. Within 10 or 15 minutes they
 will take their leave, unaware of your magickal nudging.
 BINDING
 Binding is a powerful spell used in Witchcraft to control
 the actions of another person, or to render an evil Witch
 powerless. The binding spell (usually) involves the tying of
 knots in a cord. This cord is then bound around a picture or
 effigy of the person in order to control their actions. Bind
ing spells are most often used to stop gossip, or to bind an
 individual’s negative actions so they don’t hurt others.
 There are some Witches who believe that doing a bind
ing spell is unethical, and goes against the Wiccan Rede.
 However, many believe in the old adage, “An eye for an eye,
 and a tooth for a tooth.” If you have weighed all the circum
stances, exhausted all your resources, and feel justified in
 your actions, then maybe a binding spell is needed. As with
 all magick, in the end, it is up to the individual to decide
 what is right and what is wrong.
 BINDING MAGICK
 To Stop Gossip
 Gossip, no matter who starts it, is always hurtful, and
 once the damage has been done it is almost impossible to
 undo. If you feel that someone is gossiping about you, then
 nip it in the bud before it gets out of hand. I have used the
 following spell many times with great results. It is not diffi
cult to do, and usually works fairly quickly.
 43
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Items needed: One small lamb’s tongue, fresh lime
 juice, three teaspoons of salt, a tag-lock (an object,
 such as hair, fingernail clippings, photographs, or
 clothing, taken from the person whose gossip you
 wish to stop) several yards of red cord or ribbon, plas
tic wrap, one black candle, a small piece of parch
ment paper, a red ink pen, and one very sharp knife.
 The best time to perform this spell is on a Saturday night
 during the waning moon. Gather up all the items called for
 and place them on a small table. Light the black candle.
 Make a slit in the tongue large enough to put the paper and
 tag-lock into. On the parchment paper, write the offender’s
 name. Place the parchment paper into the slit in the tongue.
 Next place the tag-lock into the tongue on top of the parch
ment paper. On top of the paper, sprinkle the three teaspoons
 of salt and cover it with the lime juice.
 Once the tongue is filled tightly, roll it up in the plastic
 wrap and wind the red cord around it, chanting the following:
 As this tongue doth rot and spoil
 Your evil gossip I do foil.
 No rest, no peace, nor solace see
 Until you stop, so shall it be.
 Hang the cord-wrapped tongue in a tree or other high
 place outdoors for 10 days. At the end of this time take the
 tongue down and bury it near the offender’s home. The
 gossip will stop.
 To Make Someone Hear You
 This spell is perfect for making those around you wake
 up and smell the coffee. When the boss or that special some
one turns a deaf ear towards you, this spell will get their atten
tion. You will need a picture of the person whose attention
 you are trying to get, and a 3’-long piece of white ribbon.
 44
B
 When you are in close proximity to the subject of the
 spell, focus your attention on the picture. Visualize the per
son giving you his or her undivided attention. Gaze at the
 picture, and wind the ribbon around it while you chant:
 [Insert name] from this day
 You hear what I say.
 Look now, and see
 Look and listen to me.
 Keep the bound picture with you until the person gives
 you their full attention. Once you have their attention you
 can unbind the photograph.
 To Bind a Lover
 This spell is designed to bind the love of one person to
 another. It works best when both of the parties involved feel
 the same way about each other.
 Items Needed: Two small branches from an elm tree,
 one piece of red twine, florist’s tape, one square of
 red felt, a photograph of the person to be bound, a
 small bag of Spanish moss, one red candle.
 1. Make a doll by taping the branches together as shown.
 Fold the red felt square in half and stitch the top,
 bottom, and side seams together to form the body of the
 doll. Place the sticks inside the red cloth body as pic
tured, and fill with Spanish moss. Attach the photograph
 to the top-neck portion of the doll.
 45
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 2. Hold the completed doll in your hand and focus your
 attention on it as you visualize the one you desire. Know
 that what you do and say to the doll will impact the
 person it represents.
 3. Light the red candle. Pick up the doll and pass it through
 the flame of the candle as you chant the following:
 Lover, lover, come to me
 By my side, ever be.
 4. Beginning with the head bind the doll with the red twine
 as you chant the following:
 With love I work this magic spell,
 That you shall always love me well.
 I bind thee tight your passions to inspire,
 For I am all you need and desire.
 5. Place the doll next to the red candle. Leave the doll and
 the candle together until the candle has completely
 burned out. Wrap the doll in red or white silk and keep
 in a safe place.
 BOOK OF SHADOWS
 The Book of Shadows, often called a grimoire or black
 book, is a personal journal in which modern Witches write
 their invocations, rituals, and spells. Its name comes to us
 from the distant past when magickal journals were penned
 in secrecy, beneath the veil of night, and contained myster
ies of the shadowy Other World. Because it pages were full
 of secret formulas, and strange incantations, it was believed
 that if you possessed a Witch’s Book of Shadows, you pos
sessed the key that would unlock the secrets of the universe.
 A Witch’s Book of Shadows, like any journal, is a collec
tion of personal thoughts and deeds. It will also contain
 information about drying herbs, observing lunar transitions,
 46
B
 and instructions for casting spells to attract love, money, and
 good health. For the most part, it is an accumulation of
 magickal practices the writer has found to be useful, and
 doesn’t want to forget.
 To most Witches, a Book of Shadows is indispensable. It
 contains all their magickal recipes. In the same way a cook
book helps create a perfect meal, a Book of Shadows helps
 create the perfect spell. By keeping a written record of their
 magickal activities, Witches are able to chart their progress
 and create a lasting tradition that can be passed on to others.
 BOOK BLESSING
 It is customary to bless or consecrate your Book of Shad
ows before you begin to work with it. This is a simple pro
cess, and will not require anything other than a candle, pen,
 and a smudge stick (small bundle of dried herbs  held together
 by cord, usually made of lavender, sage, and sweetgrass).
 On the night of the full moon, place the book, pen,
 candle, and smudge stick on your altar or small table. Light
 the candle, and speak the following invocation over the book.
 By force, by will, by potent power,
 The spirits I summon this ritual hour
 To charge this book with wisdom well
 To cast the perfect rite and spell.
 Open the book, and on the first page draw a pentagram
 with the pen. In the center of the pentagram write your name
 (or magickal name if you have one).
 47
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Close the book and light the smudge. When the smudge
 begins to burn, pass the book through the cleansing smoke,
 as you say:
 All negative thoughts are banished
 All unwanted vibrations are gone
 Only the forces and powers I wish
 Shall be within from this moment on.
 Extinguish the candle and smudge. Wrap your book in
 black silk and store in a safe place. Although you can share
 ideas, it is unwise to allow others to read or handle your
 book. When it comes to Witchcraft, it is best to keep your
 own counsel.
 48
C
 C
 CANDLE
 The history of candle burning is as old as humanity
 itself. It originates from fire worship. Early man was in awe
 of fire—it warmed him, protected him, and helped him cook
 his food. The flame of the hearth was guarded carefully,
 shielded against the ravages of wind and rain. Over time,
 fire came to represent strength, power, and the ability to see
 past the terrors of night.
 Symbolically, candlelight represents illumination, the
 energizing power of the sun, and the spark of life that
 resides within the human soul. As an agency of the fire ele
ment, candles are quick to respond to magickal incantations
 and creative visualization. The simple lighting of a candle
 creates an atmosphere of magick, and as the darkness gives
 way to the light,  desires are brought into reality.
 Candles can be used by themselves as a form of magick,
 or they may be incorporated as part of a spell. In either case,
 the candle itself becomes the point of focus. The color of the
 candle and its shape and size all play important roles in the
 art of candle magick. The color signifies  intent, the design or
 shape represents the objective, and the size is equivalent to
 the amount of time needed to carry out the spell.
 49
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Color is of primary importance in candle magick. There
 are 12 basic colors, which offer different sensory vibrations.
 Red is the most physically potent and powerful, and violet is
 the most passive and spiritually receptive. The primary col
ors of the light spectrum (red, orange, yellow, green, blue,
 indigo, and violet) emit specific energies, which are symbolic
 of their intrinsic properties. These colors move energy out
ward and forward, as well as inward and backward.
 In addition to the seven primary colors, there are five
 additional colors used in the art of candle magick. These are
 black, white, gray, pink, and brown. Black anchors and ab
sorbs; white encourages and supports; gray is seldom used
 because it is considered to be void, without movement; pink
 attracts and entices; and brown stabilizes and sustains.
 Burning times (that is, how long the candles should burn)
 are as essential to candle magick as color is. Each color of
 the spectrum has its own special wavelength or vibrational
 frequency. This vibrational frequency is the equivalent of
 motion and energy, which is the amount of time needed to
 activate a spell. Therefore, a candle that requires a burning
 time of four hours will take four times longer to work than a
 candle that requires only one hour to burn. However, the
 longer it takes a spell to work, and the more energy involved
 in its formulation, the more enduring its results.
 WORKING WITH CANDLES
 The first step in candle magick is to choose a candle
 whose color and shape represent your desire. Next you will
 have to dress, or energize, the candle. This is done by anoint
ing the entire candle with an appropriate oil. The oil is usu
ally made from a plant or flower that also represents your
 desire. Place some of the oil on your fingertips. As you con
centrate on your desire, rub the oil onto the candle, starting
 from the center and rubbing upward. Then rub the oil from
 50
C
 Candle Color Chart
 Candle
 color
 Red
 Pink
 Orange
 Yellow
 Green
 Blue
 Meaning
 of color
 Courage, strength, survival,
 power, lust, immediate action.
 Love, friendship, open the heart,
 calm the emotions.
 Action, attraction, selling, bring
 about desired results.
 Communication, selling oneself,
 persuasion, attraction.
 Burning
   time
 One hour
 One hour
 Two hours
 Three hours
 Love, fertility, money, luck, health, Four hours
 personal goals.
 Creativity, tranquility, peace,
 Three hours
 Indigo
 Violet
 Black
 Brown
 White
 Gold
 perception.
 Wisdom, self-awareness,
 psychic abilities.
 Power, ambition, tension,
 spiritual development.
 Protection, return or release
 negativity, power.
 Stability, grounding, earth rites,
 create indecision.
 Universal color, can be used for
 any work. All general candle
 magick.
 Prosperity, attraction, wealth,
 increase.
 Two hours
 One hour
 One hour
 Four hours
 No set time
 One hour
 51
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 the center downward. Be sure to cover the entire candle with
 the oil as you infuse it with your desire.
 Candle Magick Hints
 Whenever possible make your own candles. While the
 wax is in a liquid form, add a corresponding oil, herbs,
 or flower petals. For example, if you are doing a money
 spell you could add Heliotrope oil and mint leaves.
 When dressing the candle, close your eyes, concen
trate, and visualize what the candle represents. See in
 your mind’s eye the manifestation of your desire.
 Always keep in mind, and allow for, the burning time
 of the candle when scripting a spell or ritual.
 When creating your own spells, always use the proper
 phase of the moon and planetary symbolism. This
 will align the spell with the natural flow of energy pro
duced by the moon and corresponding planet, giv
ing the spell more power.
 Astrological Candle Color Chart
 Aquarius
 Pisces
 Aries
 Taurus
 Gemini
 Cancer
 Leo
 Virgo
 January 20—February 18
 Purple
 February 19—March 20
 March 21—April 19
 April 20—May 20
 May 21—June 21
 June 22—July 22
 July 23—August 22
 August 23- September 22
 Libra
 Scorpio
 Sagittarius
 Capricorn
 September 23—October 22
 October 23—November 21
 November 22—December 21
 December 22—January 19
 Aqua
 Pink
 Orange
 Violet
 Green
 Red
 Yellow
 Blue
 Gold
 Red
 Brown
 52
53
 C
 CANDLE MAGICK SPELLS
 Candle Love-Binding Spell
 Use this spell to bind the love of another to you, or to
 reinforce the qualities of love within an already existing
 relationship.
 Items needed: One red candle, one astrologically col
ored candle to represent yourself (see chart), and one
 astrologically colored candle to represent the one you
 Symbolic Image Candle Chart
 Candle Shape Symbolic Purpose
 Cat To change one’s luck. Black cat: change
 luck from bad to good; green cat: good
 luck with gambling and money; red cat:
 good luck with love.
 Double Action To attract favorable circumstances and
 repel negative influences at the same
 time.
 Human Image Used to represent the individual the spell
 is being worked on. Red for love and
 passion; pink for friendship; green for
 healing and marriage; white for blessing;
 black for releasing negativity.
 Seven Knob One knob is burned each day to make a
 wish come true.
 The Seven Day Glass-enclosed novena. Used for specific
 purpose printed on the candle glass.
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 desire, a picture of yourself and a picture of the one
 you desire, a small jar with a metal lid, love-drawing
 oil (see page 148), a small sharp knife, and matches.
 On the night of the full moon, as close to midnight as
 possible, place all the items called for on your altar or on a
 small table. Place the photographs facing each other into the
 jar and screw the lid on very tightly. Then prepare the astro
logical candles. Use the knife to write the name of your de
sired one on his or her candle, and then write your name on
 your candle. Next dress both candles with the love-drawing
 oil. Then cut two inches off the bottom of each candle, leav
ing the wick in tact. Tie the wicks of the two candles together
 to make one candle, and as you do so say the following:
 I tie this knot, to bind the heart
 Of my desire [subject’s name] to me.
 The next step is to attach the tied candles to the top of
 the jar. Light the red candle, drip a pool of wax on the lid of
 the jar to act as the adhesive, and then attach the tied candles
 to it.
 Light the candle that represents you and say the following:
 At this time, and from this hour
 You feel my love, you feel my power.
 Now light the candle that represents the one you desire
 and say the following:
 Feel my passion, feel the fire
 I am the one you desire.
 54
C
 When the candles have completely burned out, take the
 jar and bury it in the ground as close the your loved one’s
 house as possible. Before the next full moon you should be
 enjoying each other’s company.
 Love-Drawing Spell
 This spell is ideal to get someone to pay attention to
 you, draw someone you already know closer to you, or make
 your lover a better lover.
 Items needed: A picture of the desired one and some
 of his or her hair and handwriting to use as tag-locks.
 You will also need a red cloth pouch, one red image
 (sexually aligned to the gender you wish to attract), a
 candle, rose petals, and rose oil.
 Place the candle in front of you, along with the picture
 and all of the needed items. Dress the candle with the rose
 oil as you visualize your lover coming closer to you and be
ing more attentive. When you feel the time is right, light the
 candle and chant the following to build power and energy.
 Direct this energy into the candle.
 Candle of power,
 From this hour,
 Bring unto me
 The love that I see.
 That he/she shall requite
 My attentions this night,
 Let him/her see only me.
 As I will, So Mote It Be!
 Allow the candle to burn completely out. Carry the pouch
 filled with the rose petals and your lover’s items with you
 whenever you are going to be together. It is also a good idea
 to wear some of the rose oil.
 55
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Money-Drawing Spell
 Try this spell the next time you need some quick cash, to
 pay off that last annoying bill or to buy a gift for a loved one.
 Items needed: One green pillar candle, a new one dol
lar bill, a piece of green construction paper cut into
 four even squares, and a pen.
 On the night of the new moon, place all the required
 items on your altar, or on a small table. On each square of
 green paper write out the amount of money you need. Next,
 write the amount of money you need on one side of the
 green candle, and write your name on the other side. Wrap
 the four squares of paper in the dollar bill, making a small
 flat packet. Set the green candle on top of the packet, and
 light the candle as you chant the following:
 Money, money, come to me,
 As I will So Mote It Be!
 At the end of four hours snuff out the candle. Repeat
 the spell every night until the candle has completely burned
 out. Once the candle has burned out, place one square of
 the paper, and the dollar bill, in your wallet or purse. Place
 one square of the paper under your pillow, one square in
 your desk at work, and the other square under your front
 door mat. If your request was a reasonable one you should
 have the amount of money you need by the next new moon.
 Black Cat Protection Spell
 A good spell to ward off the evil intentions of another,
 block psychic attack, or turn your luck around.
 Items needed: One black cat candle, black cat oil (com
posed of patchouli and frankincense), and a mirror.
 On the night of the waxing moon, as close to midnight
 as possible, begin the spell. On your altar, or a small table,
 56
C
 place the mirror reflecting side up. Dress the black cat candle
 with the black cat oil. As you do this, visualize your luck chang
ing and good things coming to you. Next, place the cat candle
 on the mirror and light it as you chant the following:
 Black cat power
 From this hour
 Reflect the light
 Make things right.
 Allow the black cat candle to burn for one hour. Repeat
 this spell every night, at the same time, until the full moon.
 On the night of the full moon, place the mirror with the
 black cat on it in the moonlight. Repeat the chant, and allow
 the candle to burn out. When the candle has been consumed,
 discard any wax left and put the mirror away.
 CHARMS
 The word charm comes from the French charme, mean
ing chant or song. In magick, to charm is to physically act
 upon an object or an individual, compelling it to change its
 course of action. This is usually accomplished through spe
cial rhythmic chants, songs, or music which bring the object
 or individual under the control of the Witch or magician.
 To our ancestors, charms were used to control malevo
lent spirits, which were believed to be the cause of human
 suffering. The local magician, priest, Witch, or wizard would
 be called upon by the stricken to utter the right words—
 speak a spell, formula, or invocation—over the person or
 property that was under attack. The charm would then ward
 off the evil eye or malevolent force.
 With the advent of the written word, it became popular
 to imbue charms with a certain amount of permanency by
 inscribing the magickal verse or formula onto a variety of
 materials, such a wood, paper, bone, stone, wax, clay, and
 57
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 even precious gemstones and metal. The charm was engraved
 directly onto the object, and worn or carried by the user.
 In contemporary Witchcraft, a charm is a simple poem
 or verse that is spoken over an object, such as an amulet, to
 endow it with magickal qualities. The charm, once spoken,
 exudes a subtle energy, which entices and influences control
 over its quarry. Once properly charmed, an object is capable
 of attracting love, creating good fortune, and providing pro
tection for its user.
 CHARM MAGICK
 Charm of The Yellow Rose
 Dab a small amount of your favorite perfume or cologne
 on a tissue. Take a long-stem yellow rose, and with great feel
ing and emotion, charm it with the following verse:
 The stars above, in darkness shine,
 With light that fills the heavens divine.
 So bright with radiance our love glows,
 It out shines the sun, and dims all foes.
 Wrap the rose in the scented tissue and place in the
 refrigerator. As soon as possible, find the opportunity to give
 it to the one you love.
 The Marriage Charm
 Bind two small gold rings together with a white ribbon.
 Hold the bound rings in both hands as you chant the fol
lowing over them:
 With body and spirit
 As these rings entwine
 Unite our souls
 Our essence combine.
 58
C
 Place the rings in your pocket or purse. Carry them with
 you whenever you are with the one you wish to marry.
 Charm of Success
 Purchase a small gold or brass sun disk pendant from a
 jewelry or department store. Hang the pendant in your
 window so that the sun will shine on it ever day. Allow the
 pendant to absorb the sun’s rays for one week. Then on a
 Sunday morning, stand in the rays of the sun, and, holding
 your pendant, chant the following charm over it:
 Through sun and will, and patient skill,
 Within this disk I now instill,
 That I shall fare successfully,
 For this is what I will to be.
 Protection Charm
 For this you will need a pentagram pendant and a bowl
 of salt water. Holding the pendant in your left hand and the
 bowl of salt water in your right, turn to the West. Slowly pour
 the water over the pendant as you speak the following charm:
 Elements of earth and sea
 Return to all by power of three.
 That which may be sent to me
 Unless I have summoned it to be.
 I am protected from this night
 By the spirits of power and might.
 Wear the pentacle for protection on a daily basis. Once a
 month, at the dark of the moon, repeat the charm to keep
 your pentacle properly charged.
 Personal Power Charm
 For this special charm you will need a small diamond or
 clear cut quartz crystal. On a Sunday morning as close to
 the full moon as possible, wash your diamond in clear spring
 59
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 water, dry it, and hold it up so the sun’s rays shine through
 it. Focus on the stone and chant the following charm to
 empower it:
 Thou who rule the sun and skies,
 By whose power man lives and dies.
 Impart thy power, impart thy might,
 Within this stone of pure white light.
 CRYSTAL
 There are many different kinds of crystals, but quartz is
 the master gemstone of them all. It can be found throughout
 the world and is especially noted for its healing qualities.
 Quartz crystal is composed of silicon and oxygen (SiO2)
 which is considered to be the building block of minerals. In
 fact, most of our planet is composed of minerals containing
 SiO2. Silicon dioxide is also an important component of the
 human body, which may be the physical basis for our con
nection to crystals.
 Crystals are formed clear, like ice, they only change color
 when other minerals are introduced into their structure. The
 addition of other minerals, such as iron and magnesium,
 that produces rose quartz, yellow quartz, and amethyst.
 The quartz crystal is one of Earth’s greatest minerals. It
 has been used to amplify sound in loudspeakers, micro
phones, and other audio equipment. In watches and clocks,
 quartz helps synchronize time. Quartz crystal has also been
 used in laser and optical technology.
 In Witchcraft and magick, quartz crystals are used for
 good luck charms and protection talismans and as love amu
lets and healing agents. They are also used in conjunction
 with various planets and constellations of the zodiac to
 enhance ritual effectiveness. No matter how they are used,
 crystals help magnify and extend personal energy and power.
 60
C
 The wonderful thing about working with crystals is that
 they have the ability to reinforce and sustain human energy
 vibrations. When this happens, the physical body is strength
ened and rejuvenated. This can be very helpful, especially
 when one is involved in a physically demanding situation.
 Quartz crystal is considered to be the master power
 stone. It is associated with both fire and water. Quartz has
 the ability to focus the sun’s energy rays to ignite wood chips
 or other combustible material, and it resembles solidified
 water or ice. Witches wear crystals to represent the Goddess,
 the moon, and psychic power. Crystals are used for protec
tion, healing, and power.
 CRYSTAL MAGICK
 Working with crystals is a direct experience with energy
 as it moves from moment to moment. There is no way to
 develop standard techniques that can be learned and ap
plied to everyone. People are unique and different, and so
 are their energy outputs. When working with crystals or
 stones, the energy output of the individual handling the crys
tal produces the final outcome.
 Learning to work with crystals is easy. Begin by experi
menting with a single quartz crystal. Choose one small
 enough to carry, but large enough to work with. In addi
tion to size, clarity and perfection of the crystal should be
 considered—make sure your crystal is reasonably clear and
 free of chips and scratches.
 Once you have selected a crystal to work with, you will
 need to cleanse and charge it. Cleansing the crystal will re
move any previous thoughts and vibrations that may be on
 it. Charging the crystal will program it with your thoughts
 and vibrations.
 61
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Crystal Cleansing
 Items needed: Sea salt, an empty bowl, incense burner
 or smudge pot, charcoal, matches, smudging stick
 or loose smudge incense, and a protective pouch for
 carrying the crystal.
 Place your crystal in the empty bowl and cover it with
 salt. Place the bowl where it will receive full sunlight and
 moonlight for three days. On the fourth day, remove the
 crystal from the salt and rinse in cool water. Light the smudge
 stick or smudge incense. Hold the crystal in the smoke ema
nating from the incense as you chant the following:
 All negative thoughts are banished
 All unwanted vibrations are gone
 Only the forces and powers I wish
 Shall be with me from this moment on!
 Repeat this process for about a minute or until you are
 sure the crystal is clean and free of negative vibrations.
 Crystal Programming
 After a crystal has been properly cleansed it should be pro
grammed for personal use. This is a simple process which im
beds personal feelings and desires deep within the heart of the
 crystal. Once programmed, a crystal becomes a unique magickal
 tool attuned to its owner’s individual vibratory frequency.
 Programming a crystal for personal use is easily done.
 Crystals attract and hold energy vibrations, which makes
 them useful tools for focusing and directing energy. Think
 of your crystal as a mini-computer, and what you program
 into it designates what it will be able to do. The thought
forms used to energize the crystal will determine the power
 and frequency level at which it will vibrate. If you program
 the crystal with love, it will radiate love. Conversely, if you
 62
C
 program the crystal with determination, aggressiveness, and
 force, these will be the vibrations it will emit.
 Once a crystal has been cleaned, it is ready to be pro
grammed for personal use. Of the many ways to program a
 crystal, the following two methods are the most common.
 Hold the crystal in your hand and create a thought
form (mental picture) of what you want to happen. For
 example, if you want to program the crystal for good health,
 visualize yourself energetic and in glowing health. You will
 then need to force this vision or thought-form into the crys
tal. To intensify the visualization, chant or speak your desire
 directly into the crystal.
 The other way to program a crystal involves holding the
 crystal over your heart. Create a thought-form of your
 desire and allow this picture to flow directly from your heart
 into the crystal. To empower the mental picture, reaffirm it
 audibly through prayer or chant.
 Crystal Gazing
 At the stroke of midnight, just before the moon begins
 to wax, is the best time to look into the future. You will need
 a crystal, a clear glass bowl filled with spring water, and a
 white taper candle.
 Place your crystal in the bowl and cover it with the spring
 water. Place the candle just behind the bowl and light it.
 With your right index finger, slowly stir the water around the
 crystal as you chant:
 Blessed spirits of the night
 Bless me now with second sight.
 With your intense focus, the water will begin to cloud
 over, and a mist of psychic awareness will fill the bowl as you
 stir the water. When the mist begins to flow out of the bowl,
 stop stirring the water and look directly into the bowl. Focus
 your attention on the crystal and repeat the following:
 63
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Fire and water, crystal clear
 Let the visions now appear.
 Visions of the future will appear. When the visions begin
 to fade, make a mental note of what you saw. Snuff out the
 candle and place your crystal under your pillow. The crystal
 will provide you with more information during your dream
 time. Later, write your visions down in your book of shadows.
 64
D
 D
 DRAGON
 The dragon is a fantastic beast that appears in almost
 every mythological tradition throughout the world. Often
 depicted as a mix of several different creatures, it represents
 the four elements of life: air, fire, water, and earth. The dragon
 has the wings of a bird and is covered with the scales of a fish
 or snake. It is capable of breathing fire, and usually guards a
 horde of treasure deep within the earth. In pre-Christian
 Europe and the Far East, the dragon was seen a symbol of
 power, virility, and superhuman strength, and was consid
ered to be a friend of mankind.
 In magick, the dragon is wholly beneficent and is seen
 as the manifestation of life-giving waters (the serpent), and
 the breath of life (the bird). Generally it is considered to be a
 65
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 celestial power, and has the attributes of both the sun and
 moon, masculine and feminine, good and evil sides of
 nature. The dragon and serpent are usually interchangeable
 as representations of the unmanifest and the creation of form
 and matter.
 The dragon represents the highest spiritual power, the
 supernatural, and the spirit of change. When you align your
 forces with those of the dragon, you gain strength and power.
 Its magick can help you overcome negative thoughts and it
 can teach you how to live abundantly.
 DRAGON MAGICK
 Dragon Prosperity Spell
 This spell is designed to create prosperity. It works best if you
 have a job and are looking for a pay raise or bonus.
 Items needed: One large green pillar candle, dragon’s
 blood incense, incense burner and charcoal, dragon
 prosperity oil, a green silk pouch, five new coins (a
 penny, nickel, dime, quarter, and half-dollar), and an
 altar or small table.
 (To make dragon’s blood incense, mix 1/2 tsp. dragon’s
 blood resin with 1/2 tsp. allspice, 1/2 tsp myrrh resin,
 1/2 tsp. dried orange peel, 1/2 tsp. sandalwood pow
der. To the mixture add 3-drops cinnamon oil, and 3
 drops orange spice oil. To make dragon prosperity
 oil, mix 5 drops cinnamon oil with 3 drops orange
 spice oil and 2 drops sandalwood oil in a small bottle.)
 (To make dragon prosperity oil, in a small bottle mix 5
 drops cinnamon oil with 3 drops orange spice oil,
 and 2 drops sandalwood oil.)
 The first thing you will need to do is engrave the figure
 of a dragon on the candle. This can be easily done using a
 66
D
 ball point pen or small sculpting tool. The engraving does
 not have to be an elaborate work of art, just a simple outline
 will do.
 Begin on the night of the new moon. Place the dragon
 candle on your altar with the incense burner in front of it.
 Place the coins on the left side of the candle and the silk
 pouch on the right side.
 Light the green candle and charcoal. When the coal is
 glowing red, sprinkle some incense on it. Pick up the penny,
 hold it tightly, close your eyes and visualize the dragon in
 his cave. See his treasure and all the wealth he guards. In
 your mind’s eye, slowly approach the dragon. Show the
 dragon your coin. Then, with great respect, ask the dragon
 to expand your wealth as you say:
 O great dragon of wealth and power,
 I greet thee in this sacred hour.
 Great good fortune on me now shower.
 That my prosperity shall blossom and flower.
 Stay with the dragon for a short time. Listen to what he
 says, and take heed of his advice. When the dragon begins to
 fade, leave his cave and return to the present. Place the penny
 in the green silk pouch. Thank the dragon by saying:
 I thank thee great dragon of power and might
 For granting my wishes on this night.
 Leave the candle to burn for four hours and then snuff
 it out. Repeat this spell every night until all of the coins have
 been placed in the green pouch. When the last coin has been
 placed in the pouch, allow the candle to completely burn
 out. The rite is then complete.
 67
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 DRAWING DOWN THE MOON
 It was believed by the ancient Greeks and Romans that
 Witches had the power to draw down the moon from the
 sky. This assumption is not without reason. Should a witch
 be seen invoking the Goddess beneath a full moon, she would
 naturally be standing in a position where the beams from
 the moon would highlight her person, making it seem as if
 she had a direct link to the lunar orb.
 In modern Wicca, the rite of Drawing Down the Moon
 or Calling Down the Moon is of considerable importance.
 During this potent invocation, the practitioner enters a
 trance-like state of altered consciousness and draws the es
sence of the Goddess into herself. The energy of the God
dess is then focused toward a magickal act, divining the
 future, or spiritual revelation.
 Drawing Down the Moon involves being completely
 open and receptive to the feminine spirit of nature. It is
 usually done out of doors, beneath a full moon. Stand with
 your arms outstretched, pointing upward at the moon. Once
 you are relaxed, focus on the moon. Feel its rays reach down
 and touch you. When you feel the time is right, slowly begin
 the following invocation, building to an emotional climax.
 68
D
 INVOCATION FOR DRAWING DOWN THE MOON
 Bewitching goddess of the crossroads
 Whose secrets are kept in the night,
 You are half remembered, half forgotten
 And are found in the shadows of night.
 From the misty hidden caverns
 In ancient magick days,
 Comes the truth once forbidden
 Of thy heavenly veiled ways.
 Cloaked in velvet darkness
 A dancer in the flames
 You who are called Diana, Hecate,
 And many other names.
 I call upon your wisdom
 And beseech thee from this time,
 To enter my expectant soul
 That our essence shall combine.
 I beckon thee O ancient one
 From far and distant shore,
 Come, come be with me now
 This I ask, and nothing more.
 69
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 e
 EARTH
 Earth is physical reality. It symbolically represents both
 the womb and the grave. Earth is the element that brings
 forth life and then reclaims it. Magically, earth is viewed as
 the final outcome, a place where the other elements can
 physically manifest their nature. Earth is our base of opera
tion, in which we exhibit the final product of our imagina
tion. Earth is the magician’s altar, a place to create change in
 accordance with will.
 EARTH MAGICK
 Ivy Love Spell
 Use this spell to win the affections of the one you desire
 if he or she has not returned your feelings of love.
 In an earthenware pot, plant a fresh cutting of ivy (which
 represents constant and ever growing love). Braid two lengths
 of red and green ribbon together. Wind the ribbon around
 the pot and tie in a large bow. Place the potted plant in a
 window where it will receive sunlight during the day and
 moonlight at night.
 70
71
 E
 Each time you water the plant, chant the following:
 As the ivy does grow
 To my true love show.
 I shall be his (her) delight
 Both day and night.
 Be sure to nurture the plant carefully, for as it grows, so
 will you gain the love of the one you desire.
 The Love Box
 For this spell, you will need a small ceramic or wooden
 box and the following items:
 Earth Correspondence Chart
 VALUES Responsibility, perseverance, experience,
 authority.
 COLORS Yellow, brown, russet.
 SYMBOLS Square, cornucopia, spindle, scythe, salt.
 TOOLS Shield, pentacle, flail, horn.
 PLANTS Alfalfa, cotton, oats, patchouli, vetivert,
 wheat.
 STONES Moss agate, jasper, malachite, peridot,
 tourmaline.
 PLACES Caves, forests, fields, gardens, canyons.
 ZODIAC Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo.
 ARCHANGEL Auriel.
 TIME Midnight, winter.
 DIRECTION North.
 PROCESS Responsible, practical, organized, steady,
 grounded.
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 A scoop of earth from your desired one’s front yard.
 A lock of your desired one’s hair.
 Seven pine needles (for constancy).
 One rosebud (for love).
 A lock of your hair.
 A pinch of fresh lavender (for harmony).
 Place all the items into the box. Close the box and bind
 it tightly with red and gold ribbon. At midnight on the night
 of the full moon, bury the box beneath an apple tree. Draw a
 heart in the earth above the spot where the box is buried.
 Chant the following nine times:
 Power of earth
 To love give birth.
 When you have completed the spell, turn and walk away.
 Do not look back. The love you desire will certainly come
 your way.
 Earth Prosperity Spell
 This spell is very effective if you are looking for a job.
 Begin on the night of the new moon. In a small brown paper
 bag, collect earth from the following places:
 A bank near where you live.
 A store where you enjoy shopping.
 The company you would like to work for.
 The nearest crossroads.
 Railroad tracks running North and South.
 The following night, inscribe an orange candle with the
 name of the company you would like to work for. Place the
 candle in the center of your altar (or on a small table).
 Around the candle, make a small circle with the earth you
 72
E
 have collected, as you verbally declare all the things you
 will do once you have the job.
 Light the candle. In your mind’s eye see
 yourself working at a job, spending money,
 shopping at your favorite store, making deci
sions, and even traveling. Allow the candle to
 burn for two hours. Repeat each night until the
 candle has been consumed. Scoop up the earth that sur
rounds the candle and place it in a small orange pouch, along
 with a small crystal. Carry the pouch with you when looking
 for the job you desire.
 EARTH INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
 The following herbs, oils, and incense mixtures should
 be used when doing earth magick. Because herbs are related
 to earth, their vibrations will enhance all your magickal works,
 especially those affiliated with the earth element.
 Honeysuckle (money, protection)
 Wear honeysuckle oil to attract money. Mix honeysuckle oil
 with a bit of vervain for protection. Burn honeysuckle in
cense on the night of the new moon to attract money.
 Magnolia (fidelity)
 Wear magnolia oil to keep loved ones faithful. Burn magnolia
 incense in the bedroom to maintain a faithful relationship.
 Patchouli (money, lust)
 Wear patchouli oil to entice passion in the one you love or
 desire.
 Vervain (protection, purification, youth)
 Mix vervain and  patchouli oil together and wear as a veil of
 powerful protection. Mix vervain with sage to cleanse and
 73
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 protect your home from negative influences. A drop of ver
vain oil on a cloth placed inside your bed pillow will keep
 you feeling young.
 Vetivert (love, luck, money)
 Wear a drop of vetivert to attract both love and money. Gam
blers rub vetivert oil on their hands before playing cards for
 good luck.
 EYE
 The eye is considered to be the primary organ of sense
 perception. It is closely associated with light, the spirit, and
 the sun. The eye symbolizes spiritual and mental percep
tion and is considered to be the mirror of the soul, the organ
 of spiritual and mental expression.
 The right eye is associated with activity, the future, and
 the sun. The left eye is associated with passivity, the past,
 and the moon. In some cultures and religions (such as Bud
dhism), a third eye is envisioned in the middle of the fore
head, just above the nose, and is considered to be a symbol
 of inner vision and power.
 In magick, heterotopic eyes are those that have been
 transferred anatomically to various parts of the body, such
 as the hands, wings, torso, arms, and different parts of the
 head. These eyes are the equivalent of spiritual sight or clair
voyance. When the eyes are situated on the hand, it signifies
 that the individual has great clairvoyant powers.
 74
E
 The most widely used eye symbol in magick is that of
 Horus. In ancient Egypt, the right eye of Horus, the sky
 god, was his solar eye, and the left eye was his udjat eye, or
 eye of the moon. The udjat eye symbolizes the power of light
 and was one of the most sacred and powerful protective
 amulets in Egyptian magic.
 Depending on its employment, and surrounding sym
bolism, the single eye can represent the forces of good
 or evil as the single eye of god, or the destructive power
 of the Cyclops.
 75
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 F
 FAIRY
 Fairies are magickal creatures endowed with the powers
 of shapeshifting and invisibility. They dwell in an invisible
 kingdom known as middle or lower earth. Often depicted as
 small humanoid beings with diaphanous wings, they look like
 tiny angels. However, they are not angels, they are unpredict
able, and they can be as puckish as they are benevolent.
 Sometimes referred to as “little people,” fairies are an
 important part of most cultures, religious traditions, and folk
 beliefs throughout the world. In European culture, they are
 believed to be nature spirits who dwell in the trees, plants, and
 waterways. Christianity seems to think they are Lucifer’s fallen
 angels and therefore evil. Other folk beliefs, especially those of
 African origin, view them as souls of the dead or ancestors.
 Celtic culture has probably done the most to promote the
 idea of fairies, who are believed to be the descendants of the
 small, dark, Neolithic people who invaded early Europe.
 Being small and dark and living close to the land allowed
 them to quickly hide from their enemies. This ability, along
 with their elusive mannerisms, led people to believe they were
 capable of magick, shapeshifting, and invisibility.
 76
F
 When the old Pagan religions died out, the fairies were
 relegated to the realm of myth and fantasy. We find the Great
 Goddess transformed into the Good Fairy Godmother or
 Queen of Fairies. The Horned God became the Fairy King,
 Puck, and the trickster. Those with less appealing traits were
 relegated to the realms of devils and demons.
 THE FAIRY REALM
 Auki
 The mountain spirit of Peru who inhabits the high Andes,
 called upon by the brujos (shamans) to heal the sick. The
 brujos will call the auki by whistling. The auki will descend,
 and channel its power through the brujos.
 Bogie
 A frightening goblin of English folklore. The bogie is
 described as little, black, and hairy. It is considered danger
ous, mischievous, sly, and is renowned for its intelligence.
 Parents would use the threat of the bogie to frighten young
 children into good behavior.
 Brownie
 A household spirit popular in northern English and Scot
tish folklore, the brownie is a very small, brown, shaggy
 human and usually dresses in ragged brown clothes. Brown
ies are considered to be most industrious when it comes to
 such household chores as grinding grain, churning butter,
 and plowing. They love to help humans with their work,
 especially with tedious tasks. Brownies are thanked with a
 bowl of fresh cream and freshly baked bread. If criticized,
 they will undo what they have already done and destroy a
 good deal more.
 77
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Deva
 In New Age philosophy, devas are the guardians of nature
 and are responsible for building up forms on the inner planes
 as well as on the physical plane. The devas hold the keys of
 fate for all forms around us. They appear in every shape and
 size, from the earthly gnome to the highest archangel.
 Elf
 Found in British, Scandinavian, and Teutonic folklore,  elves
 are tiny, human-shaped supernatural beings who resemble
 little old men. However, elf maidens are considered to be
 young and very beautiful. They live in communities or king
doms, hidden in the hollows of trees, long burrows, or in
 mounds. They are ruled over by an elf king and queen. Elves
 exert their powers over humans whenever they can, usually
 with mischievous intent. When offended by humans they
 will take revenge by stealing babies, cattle, milk, and jewels,
 and they have been know to enchant the offender and hold
 them for years. Elves emerge after sunset to dance in the
 moonlight, swim in shallow pools, and frolic in the woods.
 Gnome
 Considered to be a nature spirit or elemental, gnomes
 resemble dwarfs with small stocky bodies, and usually ap
pear as little old men dressed in monks’ habits. Gnomes live
 in the earth, the element they represent, and are the guard
ians of mother nature’s treasures.
 Goblin
 A grotesque, diminutive, malicious earth spirit. Popular in
 European folklore, goblins are said to be knee high, with
 heavy gray hair and beards. They inhabit the homes of hu
mans, where they indulge in poltergeist activities. They are
 not fond of adults but do seem to like children, as they have
 been known to protect them and bring them gifts.
 78
F
 Imp/Impa
 A mischievous minor fiend often described as being a child
like offspring of the Devil. Imps manifest in many different
 forms. The most popular form is that of an evil-looking
 infant with tiny horns protruding from its head and tiny
 wings from its shoulders. Imps were the star attractions at
 Witch trials, as they were considered to be the familiars of
 the accused.
 Leprechaun
 The folklore of Ireland is filled with famous tales of this fairy
 shoemaker. The Leprechaun is depicted as having a wizened
 face, gray beard, and twinkling eyes. He wears a red jacket
 with silver buttons, brown breeches, black, silver-buckled
 shoes, and a high crowned green hat. In pictures, he usually
 appears in an apron, holding a hammer and mending shoes.
 This wee creature is tricky, and likes to make mischief with
 humans. He also has a reputation for having a huge stash of
 gold hidden in a secret place.
 Nymph
 Nymphs are female water spirits that appear in classical Greek
 and Roman mythology. They are portrayed as beautiful your
 maidens dressed in gossamer gowns, with long flowing hair.
 The nymphs would attend to gods and entertain them with
 dancing and music. Like most spirit creatures, nymphs were
 both benevolent and malevolent toward humans.
 Pixie
 These small creatures are said to have red hair, small, turned
 up noses, pointed ears, and pale, youthful faces. They espe
cially attracted to gardens in bloom, and take up residence
 under toadstools. Pixies have mixed emotions when it comes
 to humans. However, if they take a liking to someone they
 79
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 will help him or her out with household chores and garden
ing. They also like to work with gold, silver, and bronze. Some
 believe that the residue from their metal work is the main
 ingredient in Pixie dust, a magickal powder use to make
 wishes come true.
 FAIRY MAGICK
 Because fairies are connected to nature,
 their spells are usually performed outdoors.
 A small brook, a secret lily pond, the base of
 your favorite tree, or a field of wild flowers all
 make excellent settings for fairy magick. Even
 large, lush window boxes, overflowing with fragrant herbs
 and delicate blossoms, can serve as a haven for the wee folk.
 Fairy Wishing Spell
 For this spell you will need a small white birthday candle,
 a silver coin, seven moon cookies (sugar cookies cut into
 crescent moons), and a secluded wooded area where you can
 be alone.
 As you walk through the woods, keep a close eye out for
 Fairy circles, small circular areas surrounded by inedible red
 fungi with white spots. It is believed that fairies meet within
 these rings to celebrate their magickal rites. When you find
 a fairy circle, carefully place your coin in the center of it. Set
 the candle on top of the coin, light it, and make your wish.
 When the candle has completely burned out, place the moon
 cookies around the coin, state your wish aloud, and then
 walk away. If you return to the spot and your coin and candle
 are gone, you will know that your wish has been granted.
 Fairy Enchantments
 If there is one thing that a fairy takes great pride in, it is
 the ability to charm and enchant an unsuspecting human.
 80
F
 Using herbs, flowers, and mystical incantations, the skillful
 fairy makes a magickal dust that can be used to inspire love,
 protect loved ones, and bring forth great riches when
 sprinkled on the ground or over an unsuspecting human.
 Fairy Dust
 Items needed: A blender or coffee grinder, silver glit
ter, dark blue jar, three silver coins, silver paint or a
 silver marker, and the following dried herbs ground
 into a fine powder:
 1 tbsp. woodruff
 1 tbsp. clover
 1 tbsp. rose petals
 1 tbsp. jasmine
 1 Tbsp. meadowsweet
 Place the powder into the dark blue jar. On the outside
 of the jar, inscribe the following symbol with the silver paint
 or marker:
 On May eve as the sun begins to set, place your jar of
 Fairy dust in the center of a Fairy circle. Kneel next to the
 circle, uncap the jar, and chant the following nine times:
 Nature spirits and fairy friends
 Bless this dust to serve my ends.
 I place my trust and faith in thee
 To bring me love, wealth, and prosperity.
 81
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Rise and leave the area for one hour, giving the fairies
 time to bless your powder. When you return, thank the fair
ies for their help, retrieve the jar, and leave the three silver
 coins in its place.
 Sprinkle the powder over a sleeping loved one to increase
 passion, sprinkle on the threshold of a business to attract
 new customers, or sprinkle around the perimeter of your
 home to invite happiness and good will.
 Fairy Garden Money Spell
 Gardens, especially ones designed with a purpose, will
 attract good fairies, gnomes, and all manner of beneficial
 creatures. Cultivate a nine foot circular patch of earth.
 Around the perimeter, place small stones and crystals.
 In the center of the circle place a stone garden gnome.
 Around the gnome, plant a mixture of marigolds and clover.
 Each day, spend some time with the gnome. Make friends
 with him and beseech him to make your wealth grow as the
 garden does. To ensure he follows your wishes, chant the
 following each time you water the garden.
 Nature spirits everywhere
 My love and energy I now share.
 With cool water this charge I give
 Plants now grow, blossom, and live,
 Your gift of wealth I seek to share
 In return I give you loving care.
 As the garden grows, so will your wealth and prosperity.
 82
83
 F
 FIRE
 In the practice of magick, the element of fire relates to
 the South, the realm of energy and power. The potential of
 this element is expressed in the crackling flames of fire, lust
ful passions, or disciplines requiring strenuous endeavor.
 The element of fire promotes transformation and purifi
cation. Fire is the life-giving generative power of the sun.
 From fire we receive inspiration and personal power. It is the
 force that motivates and drives all living organisms. It repre
sents personal willpower and the force that sparks creation.
 Fire Correspondence Chart
 VALUES Energy, transformation, strength, power,
 courage
 COLORS Red, red-orange (as in flames), amber
 SYMBOLS Triangle, lightning, flame, salamander
 TOOLS Sword, dagger, fire pot, double-headed
 ax
 PLANTS Basil, bloodroot, dragon’s blood,
 ginger, orange, tobacco
 STONES Ruby, garnet, diamond, bloodstone,
 flint, sunstone
 PLACES Volcanoes, ovens, fireplaces, deserts
 ZODIAC Aries, Leo, Sagittarius
 ARCHANGEL Michael
 TIMES Summer, Noon
 DIRECTION South
 PROCESSES Passion, anger, impetuous, progressive,
 valor
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 FIRE MAGICK
 Fireplace Magick
 This simple spell is used to make a wish come true, and
 is especially effective if done on New Year’s Eve. It is also
 great way to end a romantic evening or group gathering.
 Items needed: One square of red paper and piece of
 yellow paper ribbon for each person doing the spell,
 a small bottle of heliotrope oil, and a jar of basil.
 Light a fire in the fireplace. Write out your wish on the
 square of red paper. In the center of the square, place a drop
 of the heliotrope oil and a pinch of basil. Fold the paper into
 a packet and secure with the yellow ribbon.
 Gaze into the fire. Visualize what you want. Speak your
 wish out loud, and then toss the packet into the fire. As the
 fire consumes the packet, chant the following:
 Blazing fire, burning bright
 Make my wish come true this night.
 Friendship Spell
 This spell is done to create friendship or make a friend
ship stronger. You will need a red candle to represent your
self and a pink candle to represent your friend.
 On the night of the full moon, write your name on the
 red candle and your friend’s name on the pink candle. Place
 the candles opposite each other on a table, about one foot apart.
 Light your candle, light your friend’s candle, and chant
 the following:
 As the candle flame doth flicker and glow
 So this friendship shall blossom and grow.
 84
F
 In your mind’s eye, visualize you and your friend
 together, sharing warm moments and having a good time.
 When the vision begins to fade, snuff out the candles. Re
peat each night until the next full moon. At this time, allow
 the candles to burn out. The spell is ended and your friend
ship should be going strong.
 FIRE INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
 Allspice (money, luck)
 Wear allspice oil to increase luck, especially when gambling.
 Allspice is added to incense to attract money.
 Basil (love, wealth, protection)
 Add basil to food, or sprinkle around the house to
 attract love. Carry basil in a pouch to attract money and
 wealth. Make a wreath of basil tied with red and black ribbon
 for protection.
 Carnation (strength, healing)
 Wear carnation oil to promote physical strength. Add carna
tion oil to frankincense resin and burn to promote healing.
 Frankincense (spirituality)
 Burn Frankincense to consecrate ritual space. Anoint candles
 to be used on the altar for ritual with frankincense oil.
 Galangal (money, lust, protection, psychic
 power)
 Powdered galangal is sprinkled on the ground to bring good
 luck and money. Pieces of galangal are carried to attract
 money. Galangal is burned as an incense to increase psychic
 powers. The powder is sprinkled under the bed to promote
 lustful feelings.
 85
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Heliotrope (wishes, money, healing)
 Wear heliotrope oil to attract money. Burn heliotrope incense
 to attract money and make wishes come true.
 Orange (divination, love, luck, prosperity)
 Mix dried orange peel, rose petals, and lavender buds to
 make a love drawing sachet. Anoint forehead with orange oil
 before doing divination. Mix orange and allspice oil together
 and wear for good luck.
 Rosemary (love, lust, healing, protection)
 Burn rosemary and Lavender for protection and healing.
 Place a sprig of rosemary under your loved one’s pillow so
 he or she will dream of you. Anoint green candles with rose
mary oil to attract love and lust.
 86
g
 g
 GLYPH
 In Witchcraft and magick, glyph is a term used to
 describe a powerful symbol that represents a person, place,
 or thing. When the glyph is consecrated, and/or acted upon,
 it can ward off psychic attack, illness, and bad luck. Most
 glyphs are a combination of an individual’s name and birth
 date. These are inscribed upon a piece of parchment with
 special ink and corresponding astrological symbols. The glyph
 is n worn for protection by the person for whom it was made.
 PERSONAL PROTECTION GLYPH
 To make the protection glyph, you will first need to work
 out your name numerically. Use the chart below to change
 the letters in your name into numbers.
 Letter-Number Correspondence Chart
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 A B C D E F G H I
 J K L M N O P Q R
 S T U V W X Y Z
 87
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Example:
 Sandy Lane
 11547 3155
 Add numbers together = 32
 Add numbers together to get a single digit: 3+2=5
 To make the glyph, you will need a small round metal
 disk, a black marking pen, and a pouch to place the disk
 in when you are finished. On one side of the disk, write
 the single digit for your name. On the other side, inscribe
 this symbol:
 As you draw the symbol, visualize a protective shield
 surrounding you, protecting you from the negative thoughts
 of others. Seal the disk by inscribing a pentagram in the
 center of the symbol. Place the disk in the pouch and carry
 for protection.
 GOLEM
 Most magicians are familiar with the legend of the Golem,
 a figure made of clay and wood that was brought to life
 through a process discovered by Rabbi Yehuda Low. Accord
ing to Kabbalah, Jewish mysticism, the formula for creating
 a Golem was found in the Sefer Yetsirah, a theory of creation
 88
g
 derived from the first 10 numbers and 22 letters of the
 Hebrew alphabet.
 In the original rendition, the prophet Jeremiah and his
 son Ben Sirah create a Golem in the image of a human    being.
 The word emeth (truth) is then carved into its forehead,
 bringing the Golem to life. Later stories have the Golem
 being brought to life by a piece of sacred parchment on which
 the name of God has been inscribed.
 The size, shape, and characteristics of a Golem are
 determined by the individual making it. It is believed that
 organic material, such as clay, wood, and bone, produce the
 best results. Once assembled, the Golem is ready to be ani
mated through a process called ritual sculpting, which usu
ally takes place in a properly consecrated ritual space.
 Using a single candle of pure beeswax and a sanctum
 regnum incense (made from frankincense, myrrh, and gum
 arabic), the Golem is presented at each of the four quad
rants as the archangels are evoked. During this time, special
 incantations are performed to infuse the Golem with the will
 and intention of the magician. As the ritual concludes, the
 candle is extinguished, and the magician will then spend
 several hours visualizing the Golem coming to life, forcing
 energy into it. The entire process can take days, even weeks,
 to accomplish.
 Once the process has been completed, the psyche of the
 Golem should be fully animated and ready to do the
 magician’s bidding. At first the Golem will be given simple
 tasks to do, such as protecting the magician’s personal be
longings. In time, as the Golem grows and develops, so do
 its chores. Rewards come in the form of praise, gifts, and the
 psychic energy that is offered by the magician.
 The Golem is an extension of the magician’s will and
 power, very much like an etheric double. Should the magi
cian need assistance during a magickal operation, the Golem
 89
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 is there to lend a helping hand. The Golem may sound like
 the answer to hired help, but beware: Like most magickal
 undertakings, there is another side of the coin to consider.
 Once it has been brought to life, the Golem and its creator
 are psychically bound together, and as time passes it becomes
 increasingly difficult (if not impossible) for one to exist with
out the other.
 GYPSY
 Gypsy is a corruption of the word Egyptian and refers to
 Little Egypt, or lesser Egypt. The people who came from
 this area on the outskirts of Egypt were highly skilled in natu
ral magick and were especially gifted in their ability to divine
 the future. A cast of turbulent wanderers, the Gypsies trav
eled through Europe during the Middle Ages.
 By the early 16th century, the Gypsies had spread across
 Europe. They were extremely clannish, and did not marry
 or socialize outside of their blood line. They lived, traveled,
 and worked in family groups called cumpanias.
 The Gypsies were vagabonds, traveling in ornate horse
drawn wagons or caravans know as vardos. Living off the
 land, the Gypsies subsisted off their magickal and divinatory
 talents. Famous for their powerful love potions, protection
 charms, and psychic abilities, the Gypsies were often the tar
gets of Christian persecution. Even though the Gypsies all
 but disappeared, their legacy of magick survived. Today,
 90
g
 through historical and magickal text, it is possible to learn
 about the Gypsies’ way of life, and legendary magickal ways.
 GYPSY MAGICK
 Gypsy Love-Drawing Oil
 When the moon turns new, pick a wild rose and sprig of
 fresh rosemary. Put the rose and rosemary into a bottle filled
 with rose oil and tightly cap. Around the neck of the bottle,
 tie a green satin ribbon.
 On the night of the full moon, in a place where you can
 be alone, hold the bottle so the rays of the moon will shine
 directly upon it and chant the following nine times:
 Mother of the moon, mother of love,
 Descend to me from far above.
 With your power this spell I fashion
 Infuse this scent with lustful passion.
 Anoint your shoulders, breasts, and wrists with the oil.
 When your intended is exposed to the scent, he or she will
 not be able to resist you.
 Gypsy Love Potion
 According to Gypsy lore, this is guaranteed to make the
 one you desire fall head over heels in love with you. To make
 the potion you will need one ripe apple, several rose petals,
 and a sweet red wine.
 In a white porcelain bowl, crush the apple and rose pet
als until they are pulp. Drain the juice into a glass or bottle.
 Fill a glass with the wine and add the apple-rose mixture to
 it. Stir the mixture with the third finger of your left hand
 three times. As you do this, speak the words of love you feel
 into the mixture.
 91
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Next, take a new wine glass and inscribe the following
 symbol on the bottom of it:
 Pour the mixture into the wine glass and serve to the one
 you desire. When your desired one drinks the wine, he or
 she will fall immediately under your spell.
 Gypsy Gold Attraction Pouch
 The Gypsies were very fond of ornate pouches and would
 endow their contents with great powers. To attract business,
 the Gypsy would add magickal items to his or her money
 pouch. When the pouch was blessed, it became a powerful
 attraction magnet.
 On a Friday night as the moon begins to wax, collect the
 following items:
 One gold coin.
 Three small acorns.
 One ounce gold dust.
 Three pebbles from a crossroads.
 One small magnet.
 One high john root.
 One ounce marigold petals.
 92
g
 Place the items you collected in a gold silk pouch. Then,
 on a piece of parchment paper inscribe the following sigil:
 Put the sigil into the pouch along with the other items.
 Hold the pouch in your right hand and speak the following
 blessing over it:
 Money from here and money from there
 To meet my needs with plenty to spare
 Treasures that bring security and calm
 Gold and green now fill my palm.
 Hang the pouch from the mirror in your car or carry in
 your purse or briefcase. Once a month, re-bless the pouch
 with the words above so it will continue to work for you.
 Gypsy Protection Spell
 The Gypsies placed great value in the power of cards.
 This simple spell was used to protect the family from those
 wishing them harm. On the face side of the ace of spades,
 the person’s name is written in red ink. On top of this, place
 a black candle and three black crow feathers.
 At midnight, before the moon turns new, light the black
 candle and chant the following:
 Let there be no delusion,
 You are bound by confusion.
 I now send you on your way,
 Far from me you shall stay.
 93
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 When the candle has burned out, bind the card with red
 and black thread. Take to the nearest crossroads and bury.
 The intention is to cause confusion in the victim’s life so he
 or she will no longer be a bother to you.
 Spell for Wisdom and Truth
 This spell will help you find the happiness that comes
 from wisdom and truth. On the first Sunday after the new
 moon, inscribe a small circle in the earth. In the center of
 the circle draw the following symbol:
 Place a small gold candle on top of the symbol and
 arrange nine apple seeds evenly around it in a circle. Light
 the candle and say the following.
 Let now wisdom and truth be my guide.
 Follow me and bless me all the days of my life.
 When the candle has burned out, place the apple seeds
 in a small pouch and wear around your neck. Truth and
 wisdom will follow.
 94
H
 H
 HAIR
 Hair represents strength and energy. Early Christians
 shaved their heads to show their devotion to the religion. In
 some cultures, it is seen as an act of purity to have all body
 hair removed before marriage. In the Middle Ages, cutting a
 person’s hair had symbolic value judicially and was done to
 dishonor the law breaker.
 In cultures where magick was practiced, a person’s shorn
 hair could signify the actual person and could be used
 accordingly. Even hair color was considered. In the Middle
 Ages, blonde hair was considered good or heavenly, and red
 hair was a sign of evil or Witchcraft.
 Modern practitioners of Witchcraft still use hair to link a
 person to a spell. It is believed that if you have a person’s
 hair, you have a part of them and that what you do with or to
 the hair will then affect the person directly. Hair is often
 used in healing rituals and binding spells.
 95
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 HAIR MAGICK
 Braid That Binds
 This spell is intended to bind you to the one you love.
 You will need three long strands of hair (about 12 inches)
 from your head and from your loved one’s head, a strip of
 red ribbon, and a small cherry wood box. Braid the strands
 of hair together as you chant:
 Let thy thoughts be only of me,
 None other shall you ever see.
 By braid I bind thee forever,
 That I shall lose thee never.
 Thou art bound in wake and sleep,
 Mine forever thou heart to keep.
 Tie the braid off with the red ribbon. Place the braid in
 the cherry wood box and keep next to your bed.
 Protection Spell
 For this protection spell you will need a lock your own
 hair, a small white envelope, sealing wax, and a seal with
 your initial on it.
 Place all the items on your altar or on a small table. Light
 the candle, put the lock of hair in the envelope, close, and
 seal with the wax and your initial.
 Chant the following over the envelope, and then put it
 in a safe place.
 Sealed within I shall be
 That no harm will come to me.
 HERBS
 Herbs provide us with an abundance of medicinal, as
 well as magickal substances. Most herbs are easily grown and
 96
H
 cared for, because in reality they are weeds. Herbs will grow
 in the shade, in between rocks, thrive in sandy soil, and can
 go for long periods of time without water. Once planted,
 herbs return year after year and serve as a useful as well as
 decorative ground cover.
 Along with their physical and medicinal qualities, herbs
 are filled with natural energy and power. Through ritual,
 Witches will focus and direct this energy toward a desired
 goal. Once magickally charged, the herb will then actively
 attract or repel incoming vibrations as designated. Because
 of their life force and energy, plants make wonderful psychic
 conductors, as well as powerful talismans.
 THE URBAN HERB GARDEN
 The Window Box
 Even the city apartment dweller
 has room for herbs. Take clutter off
 the kitchen windowsill and replace
 it with an attractive planter, filled
 with fresh, growing herbs. The following herbs and small
 plants are attractive and easy to grow, and are the staples of
 most love spells.
 Window Box for Love and Attraction
 Basil
 Violets
 Parsley
 Rose
 Cardamom Thyme
 Dill 
Endive
 Rosemary
 Daisy
 Yarrow 
Dulse
 Tarragon
 Lemon balm
 Bleeding
 heart.
 97
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 The Patio, Balcony, or Porch Planter
 Terra cotta strawberry pots are ideal for the
 urban gardener. When they are grouped together
 in varying sizes, they make an attractive addi
tion to any balcony or porch. The main portion
 of the planter, located in the center, is usually
 filled with tall and bushy herbs, and the side pockets usually
 hold small or trailing plants. The following herbs and plants
 thrive in strawberry pots and make welcome additions to
 attraction and prosperity spells.
 Window Box for Attraction and Posterity
 Marigolds
 Marjoram
 Green bean Goldenrod Dill
 Fenugreek
 Alfalfa
 Woodruff
 Cinquefoil
 HERB MAGICK
 Tomatoes
 Clover
 Herb Protection Pouch
 Irish moss
 Mint
 Poppy
 Use this spell to protect your property or a loved one
 you may feel is in danger.
 Items needed. One black candle, one small stone from
 a cemetery, black cloth pouch filled with a pinch of
 each of the following herbs and plants:
 Vervain
 Wormwood
 Thyme
 Oak bark
 Spanish moss
 98
H
 On the night of the dark moon go into the woods, and
 find a place where four paths cross (crossroads). Stand in
 the middle of the cross point of the path, visualize what it is
 you want to protect, and then chant the following nine times:
 Power of herb, power of wood,
 Power of stone, power of good,
 Power of earth, power of tree,
 From all this evil now be free.
 When you have finished with the chant, dig a small hole
 and place the pouch in it, and cover with earth. Place the
 black candle on top of the spot where you buried the pouch.
 Light the candle and repeat the chant nine more times.
 Extinguish the candle. Leave the pouch where it is for three
 days. At the end of that time return and retrieve the pouch.
 Carry the pouch for protection or give it to someone in need.
 Herb Love Spell
 This spell will give your new romance a kick-start. As the
 plant grows, so will the love and affection between you and
 the one you desire.
 Items needed: One small basil plant, earth, one rose
 quartz crystal, and a red flower pot.
 Write your name and the name of the one you desire on
 the front of the pot. Just before the moon turns full, put the
 rose quartz in the bottom of the pot, fill the pot with earth,
 and plant the basil in it. As you do this, chant the following:
 By earth and stone and Mother Earth
 To love and passion now give birth.
 Repeat the chant each time you water the plant. As the
 plant grows and thrives, so will your lover’s affection for you.
 99
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 All-Purpose Healing Amulet
 Items Needed: Green cloth pouch, red cloth paint or
 marker, and a pinch of each of the following herbs:
 Garlic
 Eucalyptus
 Cinnamon
 Sage
 Lay the pouch on a hard surface and smooth out all the
 wrinkles. Using the red cloth paint or marker, draw the fol
lowing “healing symbol” on the pouch.
 When the paint is dry, fill the pouch with the herbs. Hold
 the pouch and visualize good health. Carry the pouch with
 you during the day, and at night place it under your pillow.
 Use the pouch until the affliction goes away.
 HEX
 The term hex comes from Early American Folk belief, and
 implies the use of magick to hurt or harm another person’s
 body, family, or property. The hex was usually cast by a
 hex-doctor or sorcerer, who used deep concentration and sym
bolic imaginary to affect his or her target. Although the hex is
 considered to be an evil curse or black magick, the process of
 hexing can be used in a positive manner to bring about good
 luck, heal the sick, and conjure up good fortune.
 100
H
 A good example of using the hex process to bring about
 favorable results still thrives in this country. The Pennsylva
nia Dutch have been using a form of hex-craft for centuries
 to protect their property, heal the sick, and maintain a mea
sure of personal peace and harmony. To the modern city
 dweller, Pennsylvania Dutch hex-craft may seem a bit odd.
 But to early Germanic people, magick was tantamount to
 survival. The early pioneers of this country did not have it
 easy. If they did not maintain a strict vigilance over loved
 ones and make the best of what Mother Nature had to offer,
 they never would have endured.
 The most noticeable aspects of the Pennsylvania Dutch
 magickal system are the elaborate symbols, or hex signs, that
 they use to decorate their barns, homes, and village stores.
 These colorful signs represent hundreds of years of tradi
tion and come in many patterns and sizes. Similar to a
 Voodoo veves, hex signs are combinations of natural sym
bols that convey specific intentions. They are used to pro
tect property, attract love, bring good fortune, and enlist the
 aid of the four elements for agricultural purposes.
 The annual cycle pro
tected by the circle and
 the eight-rayed star, sym
bol of life and balance.
 The sign of strength and
 courage. The double
 eagle denotes watchful
ness and the tulips rep
resent fertility.
 101
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 How To Make A Hex Sign
 Be sure you have all the tools you will need to complete
 the sign you have designed or found. If you are doing an
 original drawing, plan it out first on a blank piece of paper.
 Be sure that the picture will represent the result you desire.
 On a round disk of wood or metal, draw out the hex sign. As
 you draw, ask a blessing. For example: “This is the universe
 that surrounds me. It is blessed with the universal power of
 the almighty forces of creation.”
 After the initial drawing is completed, paint the sign with
 colors selected for their symbolic harmony with the aims of
 the sign. For example, a design featuring a rooster, repre
senting watchfulness and spiritual vigilance, might be
 painted red and white for power and protection.
 Once the hex sign has been painted, it should be blessed
 and consecrated to the purpose for which it was made. This
 is done by holding your hands over the sign and charging it
 with personal energy and power. If the hex sign is for protec
tion, you will want to recite a simple chant or prayer that will
 convey your thoughts verbally as you focus on the sign. For
 example: if the hex sign was made for protection, you might
 want to say:
 Powers of the present and the past
 There is none beside thee.
 Be now a guard, remain steadfast
 In perfect love and purity.
 As soon as the sign has been blessed, you will want to
 hang it outside of the house in a place for all to see. If the
 sign is for protection, you might want to place it over or next
 to a bedroom window. If the sign is for love, hang it over the
 kitchen door or window. If the sign is for prosperity, fertility,
 and good fortune, hang it over the front entrance of your
 home.
 102
I
 I 
ICE
 Given that water is symbolic of potential, swift movement,
 and the ability to nurture, it only stands to reason that ice be
 given symbolic jurisdiction as well. Water flows, promotes
 growth, responds to our needs, and is one of the four ele
ments required for survival. With magick, water is used to
 attract love, encourage healing, and advance transition. Ice,
 on the other hand represents the stultification of develop
ment and impedes progress. Magickally ice is used to slow
 things down, impede, or otherwise stop forward motion.
 ICE MAGICK
 A Spell to Freeze Your Enemy
 Use this spell to stop or impede an adversary or irritat
ing person who will not take no for an answer.
 Items needed: One small opaque container, a bottle of
 Tabasco sauce, and a picture of or handwriting from
 the person you want to stop.
 Place the picture or handwriting in the bottom of the
 container. Sprinkle some of the Tabasco sauce over it and
 103
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 then fill the container with water. As you place the container
 in the freezer, say the following with great emphasis:
 Fiery hot, and then frozen cold,
 Your powers are now put on hold.
 Sand and Ice Love Spell
 If you feel the one you love is not responding as he or
 she should, use this spell to get things going. You will need
 a flat container of finely grained sand (please do not use cat
 litter). Several hours before you plan to perform this spell,
 freeze a fresh red rose in a container filled with water.
 Begin this spell by writing your lover’s name in the sand
 and then draw the following symbols around it:
 Take the iced rose and place it in the center of the sand,
 so that it covers your lover’s name. As the ice melts, so will
 your lover’s heart. Keep the rose next to your bed as a
 symbol of eternal love.
 INCENSE
 Incense, like music, speaks without words to the con
scious mind. It stirs the emotions as it brings back memo
ries of things, events, places, and people long since forgotten.
 Because of its evocative nature, incense has always played an
 important role in both religion and magick.
 Priests and magicians have long believed that the burn
ing of incense will attract higher spiritual forces. It is
 believed that incense has the ability to deliver directly to the
 104
105
 I
 realm of the gods those prayers and wishes spoken into its
 smoke. These prayers are then blessed and their petitioners’
 wishes granted.
 Essentially, incense can be made from any substance as
 long as it smells good when burned. Some of the more tradi
tional ingredients used are clove, cinnamon, sandalwood,
 and resins like frankincense and myrrh. The reason these
 aromatic substances smell so good is that their essential oils
 are released when they are heated, emitting a perfumed
 Allspice Berries (spicy) Use for money, luck, and healing.
 Bay Leaves (mellow) Use for protection and
 purification.
 Cassia Bark Use for love, protection, psychic
 (cinnamon like) power.
 Cloves (warm-spicy) Use for love, protection, and
 money.
 Deer’s Tongue Leaves Use for lust and psychic power.
 (sweet-woodsy)
 Eucalyptus (like camphor) Use for healing and protection.
 Lavender Flowers (flowery) Use for love, protection, and
 happiness.
 Myrtle Leaves Use for love, fertility, and money.
 (like eucalyptus)
 Orris Root (violet like) Use for love, lust, and attraction.
 Patchouli Leaves (musky) Use for love, money, and fertility.
 Rosemary (heady-medicinal) Use for love, lust ,and protection.
 Sandalwood Use for protection, wishes, and
 (rich-mysterious) spirituality.
 Star Anise (spicy) Use for psychic power and luck.
 Tonka Beans (like vanilla) Use for love, luck, and attraction.
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 smoke. The fragrant oils contained in the following herbs,
 spices, and woods make them a source of natural incense that
 can be burned alone or in combination with other substances.
 Generally, incense comes in two forms: combustible,
 which is in the form of cones, sticks, and blocks, and non
combustible, which in the form of powder or resin. The sim
plest kind of incense to make is the noncombustible kind, as
 it does not require mucilage or an ignitable substance. Also,
 noncombustible incense is far less messy and frustrating to
 deal with.
 The base for noncombustible incense is generally
 talcum powder and/or sawdust and/or powdered spice. Salt
peter is added to make the incense burn. A powerful essen
tial oil is then added for fragrance along with a dye for color.
 The incense is then burned in a censer on small church char
coal blocks.
 To create your own magickal incenses, begin with a base
 (talcum, sawdust, or a special spice blend). To the base, add
 the appropriate herbs or resins. Grind the mixture into a
 powder, and then add a few drops of perfume or essential oil.
 Mix well to blend oil and powder together. Place the incense
 in a jar with a tightly fitting lid and then label accordingly.
 The following formulas are for noncombustible incense.
 You will need a grinder, a small mixing bowl, an eye dropper,
 measuring spoons, and jars with lids. Grind all of the herbal
 ingredients into a fine powder, add the oil and mix thor
oughly. Store in glass jars or plastic bags.
 Try to time your incense making with the appropriate
 moon cycle. For love and attraction use the new to full moon,
 for personal or psychic power use the full moon, and for
 protection or banishing use the waning moon.
 Before you begin to make any magickal substance, take a
 few moments to think about what you are doing and why. As
 you blend the ingredients together, firmly instill your intent
 106
I
 into the mixture. Visualize your desire, audibly chant or speak
 this desire as you work, forcing it into the very essence of the
 incense. This extra effort of focused energy will enhance the
 incense, and the magickal work it is intended for.
 MAGICKAL INCENSE RECIPES
 Love-Drawing Incense
 1 part sandalwood base
 1 part lavender buds
 1/2 tsp. basil
 1/2 part orris root powder
 3 drops rose oil
 1 drop lavender oil
 * color red or pink
 Money-Drawing
 Incense
 2 parts talcum base
 1 part cassia chips
 1 part crushed allspice
 1 part frankincense
 1 part marigold petals
 3 drops frankincense oil
 2 drops clove oil
 * color green
 Protection Incense
 2 parts talcum base
 2 parts patchouli
 2 parts sandalwood
 3 drops patchouli oil
 3 drops sandalwood oil
 3 drops sage oil
 * color black
 Full Moon Incense
 2 parts orris root powder
 2 parts lavender buds
 2 parts myrrh powder
 2 parts calamus
 3 drops jasmine oil
 3 drops rose oil
 3 drops gardenia oil
 *Color comes from powdered
 paint
 107
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 J
 JEWELS
 Magickally, jewels and gems are associated with spiritual
 truths due to their innate talismanic attributes. Like all natu
ral substances, gemstones contain an energy or life force of
 their own. The color, shape, and size of the stone are what
 determine its magickal value. For example, because of its red
 color and association with fire and the planet Mars, the ruby
 projects energy, strength, and power. Therefore, it would make
 a wonderful talisman to lift the spirits of someone with low
 self-esteem.
 PROPERTIES OF JEWELS AND GEM STONES
 Amber: Not exactly a gem stone, but still highly prized among
 Witches and magicians. Amber is a fossilized resin that was
 favored among the ancients for its rich, golden, honey color.
 Amber represents the congealed rays of the setting sun and
 is worn for strength, protection, beauty, and love.
 Amethyst: A vibrant purple quartz, considered to be very spiri
tual in nature. Amethyst has been valued for thousands of
 years as an instrument of magick. It will help clear confusion,
 aid in prophetic dreams, and protect against self-deception.
 108
J
 With no negative qualities, amethyst is very calming and
 spiritually uplifting.
 Aquamarine: Sometimes called “sea water,” it belongs to the
 goddess of the ocean. It is a pale blue-green color and is
 carried to enhance psychic power. The stone is also used for
 healing, purification, and to bring love and happiness.
 Carnelian: A warm, red-orange in color, smooth to the touch.
 The stone is carried for courage and to curb jealousy and
 envy. It is also believed that the carnelian will prevent certain
 skin diseases which has made it popular with healer. Carne
lian can also be used for courage and sexual energy.
 Crystal Quartz: Considered to be a master stone of power. It
 is associated with both fire (because of its ability to focus the
 sun’s rays to ignite combustible material), and with water
 (because it looks like ice). Witches wear crystals to represent
 the Goddess, the moon, and psychic power. Crystals can be
 used to decorate magickal tools, create protection barriers,
 and to focus and direct personal power.
 Diamond: A highly prized gem of great clarity and brilliance.
 Diamonds are associated with the sun, the element of fire,
 and the ability to resonate energy. They are exceptionally hard,
 resilient, and of course, expensive. Shamans have been known
 to use diamonds to help them alter their states of conscious
ness in order to reach higher states of spiritual awareness.
 The diamond can be worn or carried for protection, cour
age, wealth, peace, sexual energy, spiritual enlightenment,
 health, and strength.
 Emerald: This brilliant dark green stone is one of the most
 expensive on the market. It is associated with the goddess
 Venus and the element of earth. The emerald is used in spells
 that promote monetary gain, encourage love, and help
 increase mental powers.
 109
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Garnet: A bright red, fiery gem of incredible depth,  worn to
 bestow faithfulness and to renew friendship. The garnet is
 associated with Mars and the ability to protect. It has been
 known to enhance bodily strength and virility. Use the gar
net for protection, healing, strength, friendship, and love.
 Jade: Considered a sacred stone in China, where it is placed
 on altars to the sun and moon. Jade is also associated with
 Venus and worn to attract love and marriage. Jade is green in
 color and can be used for love, healing, longevity, wisdom,
 and to prolong life.
 Jet: Again, this is not a stone but rather fossilized wood,
 millions of years old. Black as midnight, jet beads are often
 combined with amber beads and used for protection, psy
chic power, good luck, and health.
 Lapis Lazuli: Prized by the ancient Egyptians for its royal
 blue color and flecks of golden pyrite. It is associated with the
 goddesses Isis, Venus, and Ishtar. Lapis brings joy, love, friend
ship, and courage and helps to protect against infidelity.
 Moonstone: An opalescent blue or white feldspar. The moon
stone is associated with the Goddess and lunar power. It is
 worn or carried for love, divination, protection, youth, and
 healing. Most Witches prize the moonstone above all others
 because of its connection to the Goddess.
 Opal: A very unique gem that contains all the colors of the
 rainbow. The opal can be used for almost any purpose
 because of its color range. Ancient myths tell of opals being
 wrapped in bay leaves and carried to promote invisibility.
 Opals are used to aid with astral projection, to attract good
 luck, money, and health, and to convey beauty and power.
 110
J
 Rhodochrosite: A beautiful pink stone that gives off a loving
 and warm vibration. Rhodochrosite is worn to enhance
 beauty, to build friendships, and to attract love. It can also
 be used to reduce stress and fatigue.
 Ruby: Long considered the stone of Buddha; varies in color
 from pink to dark red. The ruby is associated with Mars and
 the element of fire and is highly prized for its clear color.
 Rubies are worn or carried for protection, personal power,
 joy, attraction, wealth, and spirituality.
 Sapphire: Considered by magicians to be a very powerful
 and spiritual stone. It is associated with the god Apollo and
 is usually worn to stimulate the third eye. The sapphire will
 attract love, bring visions during meditation, and enhance
 spiritual activity.
 Topaz: Associated with the sun, fire, and the Egyptian god
 Ra. The yellow topaz is used for protection, healing, or
 attracting money and great wealth. The blue topaz height
ens spiritual awareness and brings peace, harmony, and love.
 Turquoise: Highly prized by many North American Indian
 tribes for its beauty and healing qualities. Its blue-green color
 is associated with the goddess Venus, the element of earth
 and the Great Spirit. Turquoise is used for healing, courage,
 money, protection, and friendship, and is said to bring the
 wearer good fortune.
 JEWEL AND GEM MAGICK
 A Spell for Confidence and Courage
 Use this spell whenever you need for self-confidence,
 self-esteem, or the courage to handle a difficult situation.
 111
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Items needed: One opal pendant and one red candle.
 Relax and let go of your fears and tensions. Take several
 deep breaths and then light the candle. Pick up the opal
 pendant, hold it in your hands, and feel the power that ema
nates from within its shimmering depths—where all the
 colors of the rainbow converge. Take several more deep
 breaths, feel the power of the opal flow into your hands, and
 circulate through your entire body. Visualize renewed
 strength and courage. Hold the opal close to the flame of
 the candle, as you chant:
 Cosmic forces, above and below,
 Come to my aid and help me to know.
 To find, to seek, to look within,
 To overcome insecurities that creep in.
 I ask thee now to enter my dreams
 And fulfill my desires for self-esteem.
 May I now have courage in all that I do.
 Let my personal power now shine through.
 Focus all your attention on the opal and the candle flame.
 Repeat the chant two more times. As you do this, feel your
 personal power grow and strengthen. Visualize yourself as a
 courageous and determined person. When you feel the time
 is right, extinguish the candle and wear the opal pendant.
 You may also use amethyst, diamond, and lapis for courage,
 strength, and power.
 112
K
 K
 KEY
 The key is symbolic of the power to open and the power
 to lock. This concept is displayed in the symbol of the dove
 and the key, signifying the spirit that opens the gates of
 heaven. In Roman mythology, Janus, the god of doors and
 new beginnings, was generally represented by a doorkeeper’s
 staff and key. The goddess Hecate was the keeper of the key
 that unlocked the door to the underworld, which opened
 the way to the mysteries and secrets of knowledge found in
 the afterlife.
 In symbolic language, a key often signifies initiation and
 the knowledge the owner of the key will soon possess. The
 color of the key is important as well. The silver key repre
sents psychological understanding, the gold key signifies
 philosophical wisdom, and the key made of diamond
 confers the power to act.
 113
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 To find a key signifies the stage prior to the actual dis
covery of the treasure, found only after great difficulties.
 There is also a relationship between the key and the Egyp
tian ankh (sign of eternal life). We often see engravings of
 Egyptian gods and goddesses holding the ankh by the top
 as if it were a key, especially in ceremonies concerning the
 dead. As an archetypal symbol, the key represents the knowl
edge or ability to open up the gates of death to immortality.
 KNOT
 The knot is a symbol of linking, bonding, or the connec
tion to protective powers. The Egyptians used the knot to
 symbolize life and immortality. The Isis knot, which resembles
 an ankh with its arms at its sides, was widely used as an
 amulet of binding and releasing. It represented the ability to
 hold the power of magick until it was ready to be released.
 In magick and Witchcraft, the knot is used in conjunc
tion with the Law of Mimicry and the Law of Similarity some
times referred to as homeopathic or imitative magick. These
 laws basically state that like produces like, or that an effect
 may resemble its cause. Simply put, whatever you do to the
 symbolic representation of a person, place or thing (such as
 a Voodoo doll), will directly affect that same person, place,
 or thing.
 It is believed that to conjure up a good etheric intelli
gence during a healing or protection ritual, and then to knot
 a cord around the image of the subject being treated, will
 keep the etheric world helper close to the subject for protec
tion. This same principle is used in knot magick to bind an
 energy or force to an individual in need, or when untied to
 release the individual from an affliction or situation.
 114
K
 KNOT MAGICK
 Knot magick, sometimes referred to as cord magick,
 relies mainly on the powers of concentration and visualiza
tion. The cord and tying of the knots are points of focus that
 will link the thought-form to the individual or situation
 and bind it, or hold it in position. This type of magick is
 used to stop a person from harming him or herself or
 another, to stop a situation until it can be dealt with on the
 material plane; or to bind two people together for the pur
pose of love and marriage. As with all of magick, the instru
ment of the act is neutral, leaving the ramifications or outcome
 the responsibility of the individual performing the work.
 Knots of Love Binding Spell
 This spell is best used when two people are already in
 love. I don’t recommend this spell to bind people against
 their will, especially in the case of a separation or divorce.
 Items needed: One 9” length of red cord, photographs
 of you and the one you desire, two red candles, and
 a red cloth pouch large enough to hold the bound
 pictures.
 Place all the items on your altar. Take several deep
 breaths, pick up the picture of your loved one, and look
 directly at it. Visualize the person in the picture being atten
tive and loving. Light one candle and say:
 With flame and fire
 I create desire.
 As this spell I fashion
 I do bring forth passion.
 Take several deep breaths, light the other candle,
 and repeat:
 115
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 With flame and fire
 I create desire.
 As this spell I fashion
 I do bring forth passion.
 Take the pictures and place them face to face. Hold them
 close to your heart and visualize the romance, feel the pas
sion between you and the other person. Place the pictures
 between the two candles. Pick up the cord and tie seven
 evenly spaced knots in it. With each knot you tie, chant:
 By the power of earth and heaven
 Turn to me, turn to me by seven.
 Pick up the pictures, being sure to keep them face to
 face, and bind them together with the cord. As you do this,
 chant with great emotion:
 With knot and cord your love and mine
 Heart to heart I firmly bind.
 Place the bound pictures back on the altar between the
 candles. When the candles have completely burned out, lov
ingly place the bound pictures in the red pouch. Keep the
 pouch with you during the day and place it under your
 pillow at night.
 Protection Binding Spell
 If you feel that a specific person is out to do you or oth
ers harm, this simple spell should stop them in their tracks.
 Items needed: Photograph of the person to be bound,
 one black candle, one 9” piece of black cord, and a
 box filled with dirt.
 On the night of the waning moon, collect all the required
 items. Place them on your altar. At the stroke of midnight
 begin the spell.
 116
K
 Light the candle and visualize the subject of your spell
 as you chant:
 Black as night and this dark hour
 I have the right, I have the power.
 Pick up the black cord and tie nine evenly spaced knots
 in it as you chant:
 I bind thee from doing harm,
 Your evil now I disarm.
 Bound by knot and cord you remain
 Until from harm you shall refrain.
 Tie the knotted cord around the photo. Place the bound
 picture in the box and cover it with the dirt. Extinguish the
 black candle. Bury the box in a safe place. When the indi
vidual whose image is resting in the box stops hurting you
 and others, you may safely take them out of the box and
 unbind them.
 117
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 L
 LAMP
 The lamp and the lantern are symbolic representations of
 life, the light of divinity, immortality, the intellect, guidance,
 and transitions in life. The striking or extinguishing of a lamp
 signifies the birth or death of someone. Since the lamp brings
 light to darkness it corresponds to truth and wisdom.
 The pottery or earthenware lamp is a symbol of human
ity. The oil in the lamp contains the energy to power the
 lamp. When it is lighted, the spirit of the lamp is born in the
 flame. Lamps appear in myths and legends and even have a
 place in divination. The ninth enigma of the Tarot is the
 hermit, holding his lantern aloft to help guide the fool upon
 his journey. The promise of the light restores self-confidence
 and helps maintain good judgment.
 118
L
 LAMP MAGICK
 The lamp has four distinct parts. The base of the lamp
 corresponds to the element of earth and is the foundation
 upon which you will structure your magickal work. The globe
 represents the element of air and is a reflection of your
 intention. The wick that burns becomes the element of fire
 and is a symbol of your energy, motivation, and power. The
 oil is equivalent to the element of water and the fluid that
 sustains your motivation.
 The first step in lamp magick is to paint or decorate the
 lamp base with colors and symbols that reflect your desire.
 For example, if you were doing a love-drawing spell you might
 want to paint the base red, with pink and white hearts and
 then add a heart patterned ribbon.
 The globe is the ideal vehicle for magickal expression.
 Using glass paint, write the name of the one you desire in
 red paint and your name in pink. Fill in the empty spaces
 with hearts and flowers. The oil is what empowers or gives
 life to the wick; it is the source of energy and power that will
 manifest your desire. For love, you could mix a few drops of
 rose oil in with red lamp oil to reinforce your intention.
 Lamp Oil Colors
 Red
 Yellow
 Green
 Blue
 Love, passion, desire, strength, and courage
 Communication, attraction, persuasion
 Money, luck, health, goals, love, marriage
 Creativity, peace, wisdom, psychic ability
 Purple
 Clear
 Power, ambition
 Universal, can be used for all general works
 119
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 A Spell to Rekindle a Friendship
 Items needed: Oil lamp with a gold colored or brass
 base, yellow lamp oil, lemon oil, yellow ribbon, yellow
 glass paint.
 On the bottom of the lamp, write your friend’s name
 and your name and draw the following sigil:
 Fill the lamp with yellow lamp oil, add three drops of lemon
 oil, and allow several hours for the wick to absorb the oil.
 Paint several large yellow sunflowers on the globe, and
 then tie the yellow ribbon around the base of the lamp. Chant
 the following as you light the lamp:
 This flame shall shine by day and night
 You will look up and see its light.
 To guide you back into my life
 And forever banish all anger and strife.
 Allow the lamp to burn for three hours. During this time,
 call your friend and make arrangements for him or her to
 join you for dinner. One hour before your friend is sched
uled to arrive, light the lamp and repeat the chant. Place the
 lamp in the room where you plan to spend the evening.
 LOVE
 Since the beginning of time, men and women have
 sought each other out, spending endless hours searching
 120
L
 for ways to win each other’s favor, only to discover their love
 is not being reciprocated. As most of us know, this can be a
 painful and disappointing experience, one that usually leads
 us to the door of our local psychic or Witch. Hopefully, the
 magick this individual will conjure up will help us win the
 love of the one we desire.
 LOVE MAGICK
 Warning: Love spells work well to get someone’s atten
tion or to give a relationship a chance, but it is unwise
 to use them to try to hold people against their will. When
 this is done, the only thing keeping the person with you
 is the energy of the spell. The first time you forget or
 aren’t able to do the spell, the binding energy is gone
 and the relationship will wither and die.
 The Love Box
 Items needed: Small, heart shaped box, love-drawing
 incense, love-drawing oil, pink candle, parchment
 paper, pen, rose quartz, some of your own hair, orris
 root powder, charcoal, and matches.
 Perform this spell on the first Friday after the moon turns
 new. To prepare, center and ground yourself. Light the char
coal. Inscribe upon the parchment that which you specifi
cally desire in a lover. Place some love-drawing incense upon
 the coals. Dress the pink candle with love drawing oil. While
 saying:
 May the gods of love hear my plea
 And bring everlasting love to me!
 121
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Light the candle and read your petition aloud, then place
 the candle on top of the parchment paper. Place more
 incense upon the coals. Meditate upon your wish, and when
 finished, read the following:
 Hail to thee goddess of love
 Shine down on me from above,
 Bring now a lover to me
 As I will so it shall be.
 Let all items remain as they are until the candle has com
pletely burned out. Place the parchment paper in the
 bottom of the box. On top of the paper drip seven drops of
 the love-drawing oil. Next place your hair, the rose quartz,
 some of the orris root powder, and the candle drippings into
 the box. The box should then be placed where it will be most
 effective (that is to say, where you will likely come in contact
 with the person upon whom the spell is cast).
 A Smoke and Fire Love Spell
 Items needed: One sheet of white parchment paper,
 love drawing incense (mix together 2 tbsp. each of
 sandalwood, lavender buds, orris root powder. To the
 powdered mixture add six drops rose oil and one drop
 cherry oil), church charcoal and censer, one red and
 one green candle, basic altar tools.
 Try to time this spell with the turning of the moon from
 new to full.
 Before doing the ritual, draw the following symbols on
 the parchment paper. Place the paper on your altar and set
 the green candle on the Venus symbol and the red candle on
 the Mars symbol.
 122
L
    Venus
 Mars
 Begin the ritual by casting the magick circle. Then light
 the green (Venus) candle as you say:
 Lady of love, I appeal to thee.
 Light the red (Mars) candle as you say:
 Lord of lust, bring him [her] to me.
 Light the charcoal. When the coal begins to glow, sprinkle
 the love-drawing incense on it. Stare into the smoke, visual
ize the one you desire, and chant the following three times
 in your most sultry, sexy voice:
 The gods of love mine eyes dost kiss
 And rise into ether, gather in mist
 Then return to Earth, and my love impart
 A passion so great as to inflame his [her] heart.
 The incense smoke will carry the message to the one you
 desire, imbuing them with love and desire only for you.
 Ancient Gypsy Love Spell
 This spell is considered by most Gypsies to be very
 potent. Timing is the most important ingredient of this spell.
 Step One: Cut a blade of grass 7” long at midnight during
 the full moon.
 Step Two: Before the clock strikes 1 a.m., you must hold the
 blade of grass in your mouth, face the East, and say:
 123
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Before the sun shall rise,
 [Insert name] shall here my call.
 Before the sun shall set,
 [Insert name] for me shall fall.
 Step Three: turn to the West and repeat the chant.
 Step Four: Cut the grass into small pieces
 Step Five: Invite your loved one for dinner. Mix the grass in
 with his or her food and he or she will fall madly in love
 with you.
 Seven Day Love Spell
 Items needed: One red candle at least 8” long, seven
 pieces of paper measuring 3” x 1”, one pen, one knife.
 Write the name of the one you desire on each
 piece of paper. Fold each piece lengthwise twice, so
 that you have seven pieces of paper 3” long and
 about 1/4” wide. Using the knife, cut six equally
 spaced notches into the red candle.
 Begin this spell seven days before the full moon.
 Take one of the pieces of folded paper and light
 one end with a match. Light the candle with the flame from
 the burning paper. Allow the paper to burn up completely
 in the candle’s flame. As you do this, chant:
 By the powers of earth and heaven,
 [Insert name] turn to me, turn to me, by seven.
 Allow the candle to burn down to the first notch. Repeat
 the spell each day until the full moon. On the night of the
 full moon, light the paper, and the candle from the paper, as
 before, only this time, chant the following:
 124
L
 O lovely lady of the moon,
 Grant to me this special boon.
 That the one I love shall love only me,
 This is what I seek, So Mote It Be.
 Stay with the candle until it burns out. The one you love
 will only have eyes for you.
 125
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 M
 MANDRAKE (MANDRAGORA)
 Shaped like a human being, the mandrake (mandragora)
 is a plant that has long been associated with Witchcraft. It is
 highly toxic and produces a narcotic effect when ingested
 internally—something I do not recommend! The important
 thing when selecting a mandrake is to find one in the shape
 of the opposite sex of the person on whom you wish to cast
 the spell, and then to immediately carve the root into a
 human form.
 There are two genera of plants that are traditionally clas
sified as mandragora: the mandragora officinalis, a member
 of the tomato family (which includes deadly nightshade and
 devil’s apple) and the English white bryony (bryonia dioica),
 126
M
 which is related to the cucumber and gourd. Both can be
 used in spells calling for mandrake, but they should be used
 with great caution, as they are extremely poisonous.
 Legend speaks of gathering the mandrake on the night
 of the full moon as close to the Vernal Equinox as possible.
 The plant should be carefully extracted from the earth. A
 small section of the mandrake is clipped away and replanted
 in the spot from where it was taken. The mandrake is then
 gently carved into human shape and replanted in either a
 church yard or at the spot where two paths cross (crossroads).
 Each night for one lunar month, the mandrake is watered
 with a combination of distilled water, milk, and a drop of
 your blood.
 When the lunar month has ended, remove the mandrake
 from the ground. If you’ve cared for it properly, the
 mandrake’s skin will have completely healed over and taken
 on human form. To complete the process, you will need to
 dry the mandrake. This can be done by placing it on a bed
 of vervain leaves in a warm oven or by passing it through the
 incense smoke of burning vervain leaves. (Note that the
 latter method will take months to complete, as the root dries
 very slowly.) Clothe the mandrake in unbleached muslin and
 keep near the hearth or in the room you use most frequently.
 It will serve to bring you health, wealth, and happiness.
 METAL
 Ever since Vulcan, son of Jupiter, created thunderbolts
 in his underground forge, the power of metal magick as been
 a closely guarded secret. In Western alchemy it was believed
 that the metals found on earth were influenced by their cor
responding planetary rulers. Each metal was then named
 after a planet, imbued with the planet’s attributes, and
 incorporated into daily life through the days of the week. By
 127
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 using the corresponding metal, one was supposed to be able
 to control the forces that prevailed each day.
 PLANETARY QUALITIES OF METALS
 Gold: The metal of the sun, gold governs Sunday and is asso
ciated with strength, power, success, achievement, wealth, and
 masculine energy.
 Silver: The metal of the moon, silver governs Monday and
 is associated with the feminine mystique, intuition, instinc
tive wisdom, spiritual and psychic understanding, fertility,
 and magick.
 Iron: The metal of Mars, iron governs Tuesday and is asso
ciated with war and aggression. It also stands against injus
tice and exudes masculine force and power.
 Mercury: The metal of Mercury, it governs Wednesday and
 is associated with communication, business, selling oneself
 and being heard. It holds the power of influence.
 Tin: The metal of Jupiter, tin governs Thursday and is asso
ciated with wisdom, idealism, expansion, and ambition. It is
 good for legal problems and career, and is a masculine force.
 Copper: The metal of Venus, it governs Friday and matters
 of the heart, love, emotions, lust, sex, and fertility. It is good
 for relationships and health and is a totally feminine force.
 Lead: The metal of Saturn, lead governs Saturday and is
 associated with change, transition, formation through restric
tion, and learning through trial and error. It is considered to
 be related to the first law of Karma: limitation.
 METAL MAGICK
 Gold Money Magick
 Items needed: Gold filings or nuggets, small dish, sun
flower petals, and 10 coins.
 128
M
 Place the dish in the sunlight. Focus your attention on
 the dish. Visualize the dish filling with money, cascading
 over the edge like a waterfall of gold. See in your mind’s eye
 gold, coins, and money filling the room where the dish is.
 Each day place a new coin in the dish. In time you will begin
 to generate money-making ideas. Each time you place a coin
 in the dish, your will to create wealth will increase and so will
 your success and prosperity.
 The Copper Love Charm
 Items needed: Seven copper pennies, one copper
 bracelet, one green candle, and a green velvet pouch.
 Begin on the night of the new moon. Place all the items
 called for on your altar. Cast the magick circle, and light the
 green candle as you say:
 Power of Venus on this night
 Work my will by candlelight
 Bring to me the one I see
 As I will So Mote It Be.
 Place the copper bracelet in the green pouch. Take one
 copper penny, kiss it, and say the following:
 Bright and shining one of love,
 Descend to me from above.
 Attend to me and work my will,
 With great passion my love fulfill.
 By my side forever strong,
 For this is what I crave and long.
 Put the penny in the pouch along with the bracelet. Lay
 the pouch next to the candle. Allow the candle to burn for
 one hour. Extinguish the candle and cut a door in your circle,
 but do not take it up or disturb the altar arrangement. Re
peat the spell for six consecutive nights. On the last night
 129
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 allow the candle to burn out. Fashion a heart from the left
over wax and push all the pennies into it. Put the heart in a
 safe place. The following day present your loved one with
 the bracelet, and he or she will be yours forever.
 Iron Protection Ritual
 Items needed: Eight pieces of iron or iron nails, one
 black candle, a dish of salt, and protection incense.
 Place the candle on the floor near your front door.
 Encircle the candle with the iron pieces and then with a ring
 of salt. Place the dish of salt on the outside of the circle to
 the west of the candle. Light the incense and walk around
 your house with it as you say:
 Let that which is unwanted be gone,
 Never to return from this moment on.
 Return to the circle and light the black candle as you
 say:
 Into the flame, into the fire
 Burns all that I do not desire.
 To be purified by earth and salt
 Evil energies now halt.
 Allow the candle and incense to burn out. Sprinkle the
 pieces of iron or nails around the outside perimeter of your
 home or apartment.
 130
M
 MIRROR
 The mirror signifies truth, self-knowledge, wisdom, and
 the soul. It is considered to be a reflection of the supernatu
ral or divine intelligence behind creativity. The mirror also
 symbolizes the moon, due to its ability to reflect light.
 Magickally, the mirror can be used to divine the future,
 create protective devices, and look into your own nature.
 The art of divining the future by gazing into a mirror
 appears throughout the history of western mysticism. A devo
tee of the goddess Demeter gazed into a sacred spring and
 predicted the harvest. It is believed that Catherine de Medici,
 a reputed Witch, depended on mirror divination to guide
 her through the tangled affairs of state in 16th century France.
 Directions for divining the future can be found in the
 Grimorium Verum, published in 1517.
 MIRROR MAGICK
 Mirror Gazing
 The most versatile mirror for augury is full length, has
 three panels, and provides a view of three sides of an image
 at once. When this triple reflective quality is combined with
 candlelight, it creates a very mystical effect.
 A full moon night is advised for scrying. Stand the
 mirror in the corner of a darkened room and place a lighted
 candle before each panel. Position a chair facing the center
 panel. Sit in the chair, take several deep breaths, and relax.
 Stare fixedly at the reflected image of the center candle flame,
 pose your question, and look deep into the mirror. The
 mirror will begin to cloud or fog with a swirling veil of ethe
real mist. Through the mist, an image will appear and an
swer your query. When the image begins to fade, so will the
 131
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 mist. Once the mirror is clear, extinguish the candles, cover
 the mirror with a dark blue or black velvet drape, and record
 the message in your book of shadows.
 The Mirror Box
 There comes a time in everyone’s life when protection is
 needed from outside negative forces. This is especially true
 for those involved in Witchcraft and the magickal arts. For
 some reason, it seems to be the delight of neophyte Witches
 to psychically attack their peers solely for the sheer delight
 of doing it. In such cases, where ignorance is the motive, the
 offending individual warrants some time in the mirror box.
 The mirror box is a reflective tool for turning one’s own
 spitefulness against others. There is no need to thrust pins
 in a doll, invoke the demons of hell, or call upon the grim
 reaper. A simple returning of negativity will suffice. Use com
mon sense and think before you act. This doesn’t mean you
 must turn the other cheek, or become a living martyr, but
 rather be reasonable and don’t join your rivals in the gutter.
 How To Make The Mirror Box
 Items needed: One medium sized box with a lid,
 black construction paper or paint, six mirror tiles,
 one black candle, sandalwood oil, and a photo
graph of or handwriting sample from the person
 to be placed in the box.
 Paper or paint the outside of the box black. Cut the mirror
 tiles to fit the inside of the box’s lid, sides, and bottom.
 Glue them in place with the reflective sides facing inward
 so when you look into the box you are able to see your
 reflection.
 132
M
 Begin this spell on a Thursday night just before the moon
 turns new. Place the box on a table facing the direction where
 your enemy lives. Dress the candle with sandalwood oil as
 you chant:
 It is not to hate or burn,
 Just your evil to return.
 Place the candle on top of the box and lean the photo
graph or handwriting against it. Light the candle. Focus your
 attention on the photograph to create a mental link with the
 person and chant:
 All that is evil and sent to me
 Is reflected back and returned to thee.
 This magickal box shall hold you tight
 As your evilness turns against you this night.
 All that you have sent to me
 Shall now be returned by law of three.
 Lift the candle off the box, being careful not to extin
guish it. Open the box and place the picture inside. Close
 the lid and replace the candle on top of the box. Allow the
 candle to burn for one hour. Repeat this spell for three con
secutive nights. On the third night, seal the box shut with
 wax from the candle, then allow the black candle to burn
 out. Bury the box or store it in a safe place. If the person in
 the box continues to vex you, repeat the spell.
 MOON
 The moon, like the sun, rises in the East and sets in the
 West. Unlike the sun, the appearance of its size and shape
 continually change, at least from our earth-bound perspec
tive. In a lunar month there are four cycles of approximately
 133
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 seven days. The phases the moon goes through include the
 dark of the moon (also called the new moon). It waxes (grows
 larger) until the first quarter is visible as the half moon. When
 the moon continues to wax, its horns point to the East until
 it reaches a full circle, known as the full moon. It will then
 begin to diminish in size as it wanes through the last quarter,
 with the horns pointing West, and continues to wane until
 the new moon returns.
 Dark (new) First Quarter  Full      Last Quarter
 It is wise to time your magickal rites to coincide with the
 proper phase of the moon. By doing this you take advantage
 of lunar power, stay in sympathy with the natural pull of the
 universe, and combine your energy with nature’s. The more
 circumstances you can bring into alignment when doing
 magick,  the better the results will be.
 Use the waxing moon to begin new projects, build friend
ships, rekindle a romance, and create new business oppor
tunities. During the full moon, nurture and reaffirm
 intentions, focus energy on projects set in motion during
 the new moon, and work to create success and abundance.
 During the dark or waning moon, take time to reflect on
 goals and ambitions. Use this time to break undesirable
 habits and patterns and to undo negative influences com
ing from others.
 134
M
 MOON MAGICK
 Full Moon Blessing Rite
 Items needed: Clear glass bowl, a one-liter bottle of
 spring water, silver paint, sprig of jasmine, moon
stone, two white altar candles, gardenia incense and
 oil, small paint brush, and usual altar tools.
 Use the silver paint to inscribe the following symbol on
 the outside bottom of the bowl:
 Set your altar so the light of the full moon shines directly
 on it. Fill the bowl with the spring water. Place the bowl and
 all the other items called for on the altar. Cast your magick
 circle and then light the altar candles, saying:
 Lady I now invite thee here
 As the mother of sacred Earth,
 Whose power is beyond compare
 When dreams are given birth.
 Hold the moonstone and sprig of jasmine in offering as
 you ask this blessing:
 Lady of desire, reflection of light
 You are my motion, direction, and second sight.
 Mother of creation, the original source,
 You are potential, power, the ultimate force.
 Grandmother of time, wise one from above,
 I summon thee here with honor and love.
 135
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Gently place the moonstone and sprig of jasmine in the
 water. Pick up the bowl and hold it in offering as you say:
 I call the brilliant evening star,
 The virgin of celestial light.
 The gracious goddess from afar,
 Great mother of second sight.
 Glorious queen of the twilight hour
 Wise and vigilant protector,
 Thou whose silent power
 Is regal and most splendor.
 I beckon thee to now descend
 Great mystery behind the veil
 She who rises time and again
 The keeper of the grail.
 Set the bowl down. Anoint your forehead with a drop of
 the water. Extinguish the candles, take up the circle, and
 carefully place the bowl in a window where the moon will
 continue to shine on it. Just before sunrise, remove the
 jasmine and stone. Pour the contents of the bowl into a bottle
 with a lid, and close tightly. Keep the moonstone with your
 other magickal tools. Take the jasmine to the nearest river or
 lake, toss it in the water as you make a wish. Use the moon
 water to bless and consecrate your circle, or in place of oil to
 anoint candles and other magickal objects.
 Waxing Moon Money Spell
 Items needed: One silver candle, 1 tsp. ground allspice,
 almond oil.
 On the night of the waxing moon, inscribe the silver
 candle with the exact amount of money you need. Rub the
 candle with the almond oil as you chant the following:
 As the moon doth wax and grow
 So to me doth money flow.
 136
M
 Once you feel the candle is thoroughly charged with your
 wish, roll it in the allspice and light. Allow the candle to burn
 for one hour and then extinguish. Repeat this spell each
 night, at the same time, until the moon is full. On the night
 of the full moon allow the candle to burn out.
 Full Moon Love Spell
 Items needed: One red candle and one white candle, 1
 tsp. each of ginseng, jasmine, and lovage, three drops
 each of rose oil, lavender oil, and violet oil, a small
 white plate, a piece of parchment paper, and one 9”
 strip of red ribbon.
 On the day of the full moon, melt the red candle in a
 double boiler. When the wax has melted, mix in the herbs
 and oils. Remove the pan from the stove and stir the wax as
 it begins to cool. Chant the following over the wax.
 Mother of the moon, goddess of love,
 Descend to me from far above.
 Within this wax passion inspire
 That I shall have the one I desire.
 When the wax has cooled, but not solidified, dip the white
 candle in it so that the herbal wax mixture thoroughly coats
 the candle. Allow the candle to dry.
 Then, beneath the full moon, inscribe your name on one
 side of the candle and the name of the one you desire on the
 opposite side of the candle. Hold the candle to your heart as
 you repeat the previous chant. Fill the candle with all your
 love and desire. When you feel the candle has been thor
oughly charged, light it. Visualize you and the one your
 desire together. Allow the candle to burn out.
 137
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Waning Moon Protection Charm
 Items needed: One tsp. each patchouli, sandalwood,
 and clove, an incense brazier, self-igniting charcoal,
 and a small white stone inscribed with the following
 protection sigil:
 When the moon is no longer visible, place a piece of char
coal in your brazier and light it. Mix the herbs together and
 sprinkle them over the glowing coal. As the mixture begins
 to burn, pass the stone through the smoke, as you chant:
 Within this stone
 I pass my plight,
 Banished forever
 From this night.
 Take the stone to the nearest body of moving water. Toss
 the stone in and walk away.
 138
N
 N
 NUMEROLOGY
 Numerology is believed to be one of the oldest forms of
 divination. The ancient Egyptians and Babylonians held
 theories of the occult significance of numbers. During the
 Middle Ages, numbers were especially important to the
 Kabbalists, whose mystical system was based on a numeri
cal system called gematria and the 22 letters of the Hebrew
 alphabet.
 However, it was the Greek mathematician and philoso
pher Pythagoras who made the biggest impact on numeri
cal theory. He believed that the whole universe was ordered
 mathematically, and that everything in it could be expressed
 in terms of numbers. He considered numbers to be the key
 to the universe.
 The basis of numerology is the belief that the numbers
 from one to nine exert an influence on our lives and person
alities. Each letter in the alphabet is therefore assigned a
 numerical value from one through nine. When a person’s
 name is spelled out, the numerical values can be seen and
 then reduced to a single digit. Studying the numbers in a
 person’s name reveals inclinations in love, health, vocation,
 139
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 and spirituality. Although numerology relies on mathemati
cal configurations to construct personal profiles, it is far easier
 to learn than astrology.
 NUMBERS AND THEIR MEANINGS
 One: Number one stands for all that is strong, individual,
 and creative. Number one people have an unswerving drive
 towards achievement. They are powerful characters, posi
tive and self-reliant, and can be assertive. Most ones are
 ambitious and aggressive. They have excellent powers of con
centration and good memories, and are natural born lead
ers and inventors.
 As they are extremely independent, ones tend to work
 better by themselves. However, a one can be obstinate, and
 usually refuses to listen to or follow advice from subordinates.
 Forceful and untiring, ones try to dominate everyone around
 them, sometimes to the point of tyranny. They are, essen
tially, people who look after number one. If their egos are
 not kept in check, they can become very selfish and willful.
 Two: Number two people are gentle, passive, and artistic,
 and have soft, sweet natures. Twos are even-tempered lovers
 of peace and harmony. They are especially tidy and modest.
 The two is usually a follower rather than a leader, and
 when twos do get their way, it is usually through persuasion
 and diplomacy.
 The number two person usually understands both sides
 of a situation, so much so that he or she shifts back and
 forth, never reaching a satisfactory decision. The two will
 likely change his or her mind frequently and put things off
 indefinitely. The very sense of judgment that enables them
 to give good advice to friends often prevents twos from
 making up their own minds. However, with the right friends
 and associates, they will go far.
 140
N
 Three: A three person is brilliant, imaginative, versatile, and
 energetic. Threes just seem to sparkle and glitter. They tend
 to express their ideas boldly, and with great enthusiasm. They
 have keen, intuitive minds and can learn quickly. However,
 threes have a tendency to take on too much, spread their
 energy in too many directions at once, and then not finish
 what they have started.
 Witty, lively, and charming, they are likely to become suc
cessful in life, especially in the arts or spiritual endeavors.
 Threes tend to be lucky and seem to succeed without really
 trying. The three has fantastic potential and loves to be in
 control and tell others what to do.
 Four: A four person is earth-oriented, solid, and practical.
 Fours may seem to lack the spark of the more creative vibra
tions because of their efficiency. They are down-to-earth,
 calm, steady, and respectable, the pillars of society. They are
 cautious and don’t take risks.
 Though fours are able to grasp new ideas quickly, they
 prefer to study them before making any decisions.
 Four people like routine and detailed work. They make
 great technicians and researchers. Unfortunately, fours tend
 to be grim, repressive, suspicious, and resentful of anyone
 whose ways are not like theirs. The four usually gains friends
 through honest, hard work, dependability, and constant
 effort. Fours will always keep on plugging, and they always
 finish what they start.
 Five: The five is restless, jumpy, clever, and impatient. Fives
 live off their nerves and coffee. They are ambitious and love
 to travel, meet new people, and be in different surround
ings. People with this vibration are capable, quick, and will
ing to accept new ideas. They seem to be Jacks-of-all-trades.
 The unusual and bizarre fascinate fives, who enjoy gambling,
 speculation, and risks. They make excellent salespeople.
 141
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Fives are adventurous, attractive, and quick tempered.
 They live for the moment and detest responsibility and mun
dane activities. They hate to be tied down and committed to
 routine tasks. Their lively nature tends to make them a bit
 conceited and sarcastic. The five would rather learn the hard
 way than take advice from others, which usually leads to set
backs and even misfortune and loss.
 Six: Six is the number of harmony, domesticity, and peace
ful happiness. They have a great talent for friendship, home,
 and family life. Sixes are kind, reliable, and well-balanced
 individuals. These are the true homemakers. They just seem
 to have the ability to get along with everyone—no matter
 what their race, religion, or creed. Sixes love beauty, warmth,
 and, above all, home and family. They appreciate the cultured
 life and gravitate toward music, art, poetry, and sculpture.
 Sixes are loyal, conscientious, idealistic, and affection
ate. They are often called upon to fill positions of trust, and
 generally live up to the expectations of others. If they do not
 find fame, it is because they have become satisfied with what
 they already have, and don’t reach for higher pinnacles. Let
 a six run your business. He or she will have a way of attract
ing followers and customers, and will usually be socially
 prominent in the community.
 Seven: Seven is the scholar, philosopher, and mystic. Intu
ition is a strong part of a seven’s highly imaginative nature.
 Sevens love the mysterious and anything to do with the
 occult side of nature. Composers, musicians, students, phi
losophers, and mystics are nurtured by this number. The
 seven tends to withdraw from the world, inspired by soli
tude. However, Sevens hate obscurity, and will usually blame
 the world for their failure to gain prominence. Although
 sevens are capable of solving intricate problems, they
 seldom understand or really know themselves.
 142
N
 The seven has a penetrating intellect, hidden beneath a
 dreamy facade that makes them seem fey and strange. Often
 extraordinarily bad at explaining themselves, they can be very
 frustrating, especially when they get upset at being ques
tioned. If the they can avoid being pessimistic, aloof, and
 always disappointed, they will become great teachers and
 leaders—sevens naturally inspire loyalty.
 Eight: Eight stands for power, money, and worldly involve
ment. Eight is the number of material success—the steady
 builder of vast commercial and industrial development. The
 eight puts plans into action, completes them, and then goes
 on to something bigger. Eights are strong and forceful. They
 always demand and get the most from others. Opposition
 does not stop them, and they can be ruthless with rivals and
 subordinates.
 Strong, practical people, eights make successful business
men and politicians. They work hard, accumulate money,
 and conduct their operations with caution and tenacity. Eight
 spells success with dollar marks ($UCCE$$), and thrives on
 progress. The weakness with this number lies in petty jeal
ousies, wasted efforts, and indulgence. The eight can easily
 become hard, materialistic, and tyrannical. But, when it
 comes to money, eights have the true Midas touch.
 Nine: The number nine combines influence with intellect.
 Romantic, passionate, and impulsive, nines are people of
 wide sympathies and great charm. They make brilliant sci
entists, teachers, and artists. Strong-willed, wild, unortho
dox, and impractical, they are always interesting. However,
 they can be uncharitable and intolerant when opposed.
 More often than not, nines become so involved with
 their humanitarian efforts that they overlook the feelings
 of those around them. Impatient and impulsive, they move
 fast and have explosive tempers. If opposed, they are very
 143
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 uncharitable and intolerant. The only time they are cautious
 is when money is involved, but even then their impulsive
 nature may give way to generosities not in their best interest.
 If nines can learn control and balance there is nothing they
 cannot do or achieve.
 NUMEROLOGY ANALYSIS
 To analyze an individual using numerology, begin with
 the date of birth number. This represents the subject’s
 inborn characteristics and is known as the personality
 number. Next you will want to analyze the name number by
 which your subject is best known. It will show traits devel
oped during life. Your subject’s inner nature is best expressed
 by the vowel number and is considered to be the number of
 underlying influence.
 To find a person’s primary date of birth number, you
 must add all the numbers of the birth date together until
 you have a single digit number. For example, is you were
 born on May 1, 1950, you would first have to reduce May to
 a number. May is the 5th month, or 5. You would then add
 up all the numbers: 5 + 1 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 0 = 21. The 21 is
 then reduced to a single digit: 2 + 1 = 3. Your birth number
 would be 3, and this is the definition you would consult.
 The Number Chart
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 A B C D E F G H I
 J K L M N O P Q R
 S T U V W X Y Z
 144
N
 The next step is to analyze the name numerically. To do
 this you convert the letters of the name into numbers using
 the number-letter equivalents listed on the chart above. For
 example, John Smith:
 J    O    H    N    S    M
     I
    T
    H
 1 + 6 + 8 + 5 + 1 + 4 + 9 + 2 + 8  =44=4+4=8
 The primary number for the name John Smith is 8, so
 you would read the qualities associated with the number eight
 to find out what traits John has developed throughout his
 life. If the date of birth number and the name number coin
cide, the individual will have a pretty smooth life. If they are
 in opposition to each other it may indicate inner conflict
 and problems.
 The last thing to do is reduce the vowels in the person’s
 name to one digit. This will show what influences are at work
 beneath the surface.
 145
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 O
 OILS
 The sense of smell is one of the most powerful senses
 humans have. Connected on a primal level to the uncon
scious, smell reacts without your conscious knowledge or
 will. Tied to memory, scent can bring pleasure, alert to
 danger, cause revulsion, and affect health. Every odor that
 you perceive causes a chemical reaction in the brain, trigger
ing instincts rather than conscious actions. This is why oils
 and incense have a prominent place in most magickal op
erations: They automatically activate responses, bypassing
 the reasoning self.
 Fragrant oils are used to enhance magickal rites, to anoint
 candles, and to bless and concrete objects, and can even be
 burned in place of incense. Worn on the body, oils can trig
ger a sensual, come hither state of mind or a don’t come any
 closer, protective vibration. When oil is used in combination
 with ritual bathing, it relaxes the body and invigorates the
 mind, preparing it for magickal work.
 The blending of magickal oils is simple and requires little
 equipment other than an eye dropper, essential oils, and small
 bottles for storage. If you wish to create your own special
 146
O
 blend, be sure the ingredients complement each other and
 reflect the desired goal. To enhance the effectiveness of your
 oil, add a crystal, semiprecious stone, flower, seed, or leaf to
 the bottle. Always be sure to label the bottle according to its
 purpose and date of creation.
 Oil Fragrance Categories
 Sweet
 Vanilla
 Heliotrope
 Violet
 Myrrh
 Spicy
 Carnation
 Allspice
 Cinnamon
 Bayberry
 Lavender
 Bergamot
 Sour
 Orange
 Lemon
 Lime
 Verbena
 Fruity
 Musky
 Musk
 Dark Musk
 Patchouli
 Civet
 Minty
 Woodsy
 Sandalwood
 Rosewood
 Flowery
 Fruit of Life
 Cherry
 Orange
 Apple
 Pineapple
 Peppermint
 Spearmint
 Balm
 Sage
 Rose
 Wisteria
 Jasmine
 Gardenia
 Honeysuckle
 Tuberose
 Magnolia
 147
148
 The Witch’ ’’ ’’s Master Grimoire
 Standard Magickal Oil Recipes
 Love-Drawing Oil Desire Me Oil
 1 pair Adam and Eve roots 2 parts white musk oil
 1 part rose oil 2 parts jasmine oil
 1 part cherry oil 2 parts lotus oil
 1 part musk oil 2 parts violet oil
 1 part narcissus oil 1 rose quartz in bottle
 Money-Drawing Oil Crown of Success Oil
 2 parts apricot oil base 2 parts sunflower oil
 2 parts cinnamon oil 2 parts orange oil
 2 parts clove oil 2 parts allspice oil
 2 parts frankincense oil 2 parts ambergris oil
 1 small high John root in bottle Add gold glitter to bottle
 Power Oil Protection Oil
 2 parts safflower oil 2 parts patchouli oil
 2 parts sandalwood oil 2 parts sandalwood oil
 2 parts orange oil 2 parts frankincense oil
 2 parts pine oil 2 parts verbena oil
 2 parts blue sonata 1 onyx chip
 1 garnet 1 wormwood leaf or stem
 1 ruby
P
 P
 PENTACLE
 No other symbol is more widely associated with Witch
craft than the pentacle, a round disk engraved with a penta
gram (five-pointed star). The circle surrounding the
 pentagram is the universal symbol of totality. The penta
gram itself symbolizes the human microcosm. It also repre
sents the five elements: Air, Fire, Water, Earth, and Spirit.
 Upright (as pictured), the pentacle depicts the spirit above
 matter and is a symbol of the Goddess. Inverted, it corre
sponds to matter above spirit, the quest for temporal gain,
 and the Horned God of materialism.
 In the practice of magick, the pentacle represents the
 practitioners’ ability to create or manifest desire. As the
 embodiment of the element of Earth and the realm of mate
rialism, the pentacle provides a place, like an artist’s canvas,
 149
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 on which abstract thought forms can be brought to life. From
 a spiritual or esoteric viewpoint, the pentacle represents the
 realm of birth, life, death, and renewal.
 During a magickal operation, practitioners use the
 symbol of the pentacle to help conceptualize their thoughts,
 believing that what they see in their minds’ eyes they will
 surely realize in physical form. The pentacle becomes the
 point of focus where all the practitioner’s attention is
 directed. If practitioners are totally focused and are able to
 force their will toward a single purpose, they will achieve
 results and make manifest their desires.
 The true beauty and power of the pentacle lies in its
 versatility. It provides the practitioner with a mode of
 expression and a place to arrange his or her thought forms
 until they can be forced into reality. For example, by placing
 the logo or symbol of your coven or lodge on the pentacle
 and charging the logo during ritual, you endow those affili
ated with the group a portion of the energy raised. This is
 especially helpful during fund-raising campaigns or when
 trying to recruit new members.
 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE PENTACLE
 When performing a magickal rite, it is important that
 the symbols you use convey your objective. As an agency of
 the Earth element, the pentacle makes the ideal surface on
 which to place your symbolic representations during ritual.
 Because the pentacle will be serving as the host to your
 magickal objectives, it is important to consider the physical
 properties of the pentacle itself. These include: the sub
stance you make your pentacle from, color, and inscriptions
 or engravings.
 Wood
 Wood is symbolic of the mother, the Goddess, and
 wisdom. Wood makes an ideal pentacle, and is very easy to
 150
P
 work with. Wood absorbs and radiates energy, infusing the
 focused thought forms into the objects placed upon it.
 Choose the wood for your pentacle according to the natural
 vibrations you would like it to have.
 Apple: Belongs to Aphrodite, Venus, Freya, Ishtar,
 Cerridwen, and the element of Water; used for love, pas
sion, fertility, foundation, and inspiration.
 Ash: Corresponds to the gods Neptune, Odin, and Mercury
 and the elements of Air and Water; aids in mental clarity.
 Birch: Associated with the mysteries of the Goddess; the
 elements of Earth, Air, and Water; is used in making parch
ment; contributes to health, healing, and general magick.
 Hawthorn: Belongs to Mars, Thor, Blodeuwedd, and Hera;
 the elements of Fire and Earth; allows access to the under
world; is protective, cleansing, and helps to manifest desire.
 Hazel: Equates with Mercury, Hermes, Woden, and Thor;
 the elements of Air and Water; is associated with dowsing,
 divination, finding hidden things, and developing wisdom.
 Maple: Corresponds to Jupiter; the element of Air; promotes
 love, longevity, and material success.
 Oak: Associated with Zeus, Thor, Juno, Diana, Rhea,
 Demeter, Dagda, Bridget; the elements of Fire and Earth,
 and sometimes Water; permits entrance into the mysteries,
 is a keeper of knowledge, and promotes courage, spiritual
 strength, and protection.
 Pine: Aligns with Mars, Freya, Osiris, Cybele; the element of
 Fire; helps with birth, purification, insight, and divination.
 Metal
 Metals are the bones of the Earth; the reflection of the
 powers of the God and Goddess. Metals are beautiful, they
 conduct energy, and they were considered to be sacred in
 151
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 ancient times. In addition to their temporal qualities, each
 metal is aligned with a planetary energy that influences all it
 comes in contact with. Most New Age and Occult shops carry
 a variety of planetary pentacles for practitioners to choose
 from. The following six metals are most often used in the
 construction of altar pentacles.
 Silver: Associated with the Moon, Artemis, Selene, Hecate,
 Diana, Sin, Shiva; the element of Water; encourages the femi
nine mystique, intuition, instinctive wisdom, spiritual and
 psychic understanding, fertility, and magick.
 Gold: Belongs to the Sun, Apollo, Dionysius, Helios, Sol,
 Vishnu, Ra; the element of Fire; develops strength, power,
 success, achievement, wealth, and masculine energy.
 Copper: Corresponds to Venus, Aphrodite, Ishtar, Lakshmi,
 Bast; the elements Water and Fire; aids with matters of the
 heart, love, passion, friendship, reconciliation of differences,
 harmony, beauty, and attraction.
 Tin: Associated with Jupiter, Zeus, Athens, Poseidon,
 Minerva, Marduk, and Indra; the element of Water; helps
 with idealism, expansion, attracting success, obtaining jus
tice, religious leadership, and prosperity.
 Iron: Belongs to Mars, Volcanus, Durga, and Sekhmet; the
 element of Fire; supports dynamic energy, enthusiasm, cour
age, bodily strength, and war.
 Lead: Corresponds to Saturn, Hera, Kronos, Saeturnus,
 Parvati, Kali, and Ptah; the element of Earth; encourages
 creativity, the bringing of ideas into material form, restric
tion, formation, discipline.
 Stone
 Stone is the symbol of stability, durability, immorality,
 cohesion, and the indestructibility of the supreme reality.
 152
P
 Stones often accompany trees in sacred places, or stand alone
 to mark a sacred place or event. The Stone of Foundation is
 the rock on which the universe was founded, the keystone of
 the Earth and source of the waters of life, the rock that pre
vails against Hades and the powers of the underworld. The
 stones listed here are ones that usually come in slices or sec
tions large enough to fashion into a pentacle.
 Agate: Associated with Mercury; the elements of Earth and
 Fire; helps to build courage, strength, and self healing, is
 good for protection.
 Beryl: Corresponds to Neptune, Tiamat, Mara; the element
 of Water; can be used for healing, love, and to stop gossip.
 Calcite: Equates with Venus; the element of Water, aids in
 centering, spiritual endeavors, purification, protections, and
 healing.
 Geodes: Associated with the Great Mother; the element of
 Water; are used for meditation and fertility.
 Malachite: Corresponds to Venus; the element of Earth; is
 good to use for love, peace, business success , and power.
 Petrified Wood: Is not an actual stone but rather a fossil
 that is associated with the Akasha and the elements; most
 often used for past-life regression, healing, and protection.
 PLANETS
 Millions of years old, from ancient Babylon to modern
 times, the planets have always symbolized the essential forces
 of the universe. Equated with the gods, endowed with
 magickal attributes, and viewed as lights of influence, then
 and now the planets affect all aspects of daily life.
 153
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 The sun and the moon, which dominated the daylight
 hours and night skies, were the first “planets” to be associ
ated with the life-giving forces of the elements, seasons, and
 man’s day-to-day struggle to survive. These two luminaries
 were credited with the power to control the cyclic process
 and deified as the source of life itself.
 As mythology and storytelling evolved, so did the god
like qualities of the celestial bodies, and their ability to con
trol human existence. Besides the sun and moon, the father
 and mother of the universe, other planetary gods and god
desses began to emerge, each with his or her own individual
 identity and domain of influence.
 The sun, moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and
 Saturn (the sun and moon are regarded as planets in this
 sense) formed the original pantheon of heavenly powers
 that ruled over the affairs of humans. Each planet was as
signed an area of influence that controlled the human en
deavors within that realm. For example, the Sun was equated
 with the Greek god Apollo, and governed strength, self
expression, and vitality, which were associated with leader
ship, royalty, and government.
 Learning to use planetary energy makes magickal work
 easier, since each planet relates to everyday life in some way.
 Basically, just about everything we do or seek to achieve is
 subordinate to a planetary force. Magickally, this means that
 everything in creation responds to a specific planetary en
ergy. Therefore, if you know which energy rules or governs a
 certain object or event, then you can use the corresponding
 planetary power to influence it. The more you know about
 the planets and their corresponding attributes and symbols,
 the more precise you can be in designing magickal rites.
 154
P
 PLANETARY CORRESPONDENCES
 Sun
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Numbers
 Metal
 Stones
 Incense
 Plant
 Trees
 Animals
 Hexagram, diadem, alchemical crucible
 Apollo, Sol, Dionysos, Helios, Bridget, Aine,
 Macha
 Michael
 Sunday
 Gold, yellow
 One or six
 Gold
 Diamond, amber, clear quartz, topaz
 Frankincense, sandalwood
 Bay, cinnamon, heliotrope, marigold, orange
 Oak, pine
 Lion, hawk, bull
 The sun is authoritative, creative, courageous, and heal
ing. With its life-giving warmth, the sun is at the center of
 existence, and whatever exists at the center will activate what
 is at the perimeter. It is primarily associated with will power,
 activity, authority, and leadership. The sun should be used
 to acquire self-esteem, attract fame and material success,
 encourage physical strength and courage, aid physical heal
ing, and assist with political ambition.
 Moon
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Number
 Metal
 Crescent, cup, silver sickle
 Hecate, Selene, Diana, Thoth
 Gabriel
 Monday
 Silver, white,
 Two
 Silver
 155
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Stones
 Incense
 Plants
 Trees
 Animals
 Moonstone, pearl, chalcedony, mother of
 pearl
 Jasmine, lotus, ylang-ylang
 Lily, hyacinth, iris, narcissus
 Willow, hawthorn
 Crab, owl, vulture, horse
 There are more myths and legends about the moon than
 any other planetary body. The moon just seems to ignite the
 imagination and quicken the mystical senses. Lighting the
 night sky, the moon allows us to see past reality and into the
 shadows of night. The moon is receptive, reflects the light of
 the sun, and governs our physical and emotional responses.
 Lunar magick works best when it is used to learn control
 over emotions, create passion, assist with glamour-magick,
 and increase intuition and psychic abilities.
 Mars
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Number
 Metal
 Stones
 Incense
 Plants
 Trees
 Animals
 Pentagram, lance, scourge
 Mars, Volcanus, Durga, Sekhmet
 Samuel
 Tuesday
 Red, burgundy
 Five
 Iron
 Bloodstone, flint, onyx, garnet, ruby
 Dragonsblood, galangal, tobacco
 Bloodroot, ginger, snapdragon, nettle
 Rowan, ash, pepper tree
 Ram, wolf, scorpion, salamander
 Mars is dynamic energy, enthusiasm, and resolution. It
 rules personal expression, character, and bodily strength.
 Mars represents action and it induces humans to take risks
 and to rush into things before thinking. The key image of
 Mars is force—pushing and shoving to fit with little regard
 156
P
 for right or wrong. Under the rulership of this planet we
 find a instinctive need to lead, to survive, and to clear the
 path of all obstacles that stand in the way of personal
 accomplishment. Mars energy should be used to build
 strength of character, reinforce determination, confront en
emies, and win battles.
 Mercury
 Glyph
 Symbol
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Number
 Metals
 Stones
 Incense
 Plants
 Trees
 Animals
 Caduceus, scroll, stylus
 Hermes, Mercurius, Thoth,
 Raphael
 Wednesday
 Yellow, orange, apricot
 Eight
 Mercury (quicksilver), zinc
 Citrine, agate
 Styrax (liquid storax), gum arabic, lavender
 Lavender, marjoram, star anise, bittersweet
 Birch, aspen, almond
 Fox, cheetah, baboon, ostrich, carrier pigeon
 Mercury is symbolically related to communication and
 the ability to think. It governs the human potential to
 reason, make decisions, evaluate situations, and analyze facts.
 Creative thinking, rational thinking, and original thinking
 are unique to humans, setting us apart from the animal king
dom. Thinking is a powerful tool and carries with it a tre
mendous amount of responsibility. All people are responsible
 for using their minds in an honorable manner and for the
 betterment of all living things. Mercury should be used to
 enhance the thought process, remove stress, tension, and
 depression, and increase creativity and original thinking.
 157
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Jupiter
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Number
 Metal
 Stones
 Incense
 Plants
 Tree
 Animals
 Thunderbolt, trident, crown
 Zeus, Athena, Jupiter, Minerva, Tinia,
 Marduk, Maat
 Sachiel
 Thursday
 Purple, dark blue
 Four
 Tin
 Amethyst, lepidolite, sugilite
 Pine, sandalwood, clove
 Borage, sage, betony, nutmeg
 Juniper, cedar, pine, sycamore
 Whale, swan, eagle
 Jupiter corresponds to knowledge, understanding, good
 judgment, and prosperity. It rules the concepts of expan
sion, opportunity, and good fortune. Jupiter is a joyful planet
 that promotes abundance through realistic effort and hard
 work. One thing that Jupiter helps people do is change their
 attitudes from a negative to positive. Once the attitude
 changes, so does everything else, because if you have a posi
tive frame of mind you can accomplish just about anything.
 Use Jupiter to attract wealth and great riches, build dignity,
 acquire wisdom and make good judgments, improve moral
 values, increase financial health, and expand knowledge and
 understanding of religious and philosophical concepts.
 Venus
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deity
 Archangel
 Day
 Colors
 Mirror, girdle, shell
 Venus, Aphrodite, Ishtar, Lakshmi, Bast
 Anael
 Friday
 Green, turquoise, luminescent greenish white
 158
P
 Number
 Metal
 Stone
 Incense
 Plants
 Trees
 Animals
 Seven
 Copper
 Emerald, jade, lapis lazuli, chrysocolla, coral
 Rose, lilac, violet
 Rose, iris, orchid, orris, passion flower,
 vanilla
 Apple, cherry, avocado, fig
 Lynx, cat, rabbit, dove, sparrow
 Venus is the epitome of the feminine mystique, the queen
 of love and beauty. Venus offers what others cannot, the qual
ity of simple abundance. All of nature responds to Venus
 and the pleasures she affords. Passion, peace, affection,
 money, success, and friendships all come under the rule of
 Venus. Use Venus to arouse the passions of a loved one,
 create a peaceful environment, acquire money, become suc
cessful, and gain new friendships.
 Saturn
 Glyph
 Symbols
 Deities
 Archangel
 Day
 Color
 Number
 Metal
 Stones
 Incense
 Plants
 Trees
 Animals
 Scythe, key, double axe
 Saturn, Kronos, Hera, Kali, Net
 Cassiel
 Saturday
 Black
 Three
 Lead
 Onyx, obsidian, jet, hematite, apache tear
 Patchouli, Myrrh
 Belladonna, hemlock, ladyslipper, yew
 Beech, yew, elm, ebony, cypress
 Goat, spider, goose, bat
 Saturn is the planet of stability and restriction. Its ener
gies test our balance and endurance. In some ways Saturn
 symbolizes time, which, with its ravenous appetite for life,
 159
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 devours all its creations. Saturn, like time, brings restless
ness, the sense of duration lasting from the moment of
 stimulus up to the peak of satisfaction. Saturn is slow, delib
erate, disciplined success. Use Saturn to improve concen
tration, discipline a lazy mind, become better at work, and
 motivate yourself.
 Each one of the seven planets produces a different
 energy field or vibration that can be used to enhance
 magickal operations. By incorporating this energy into your
 magickal works, you increase their effectiveness. For example,
 a love-drawing ritual would have tremendous impact if it
 were timed to coincide with the vibrations of Venus. Like
wise, you would greatly reinforce a personal success spell by
 doing it on a Sunday and taking advantage of solar energy.
 In addition to timing, try to include some planetary sym
bolism in your magickal rite. Want to give that protection
 spell a big boost? Plan to do your spell on a Saturday night.
 Use three black candles and patchouli incense, and include
 three pieces of jet in the work. If time permits, make a black
 bag in the shape of bat to carry your protection symbols in.
 The more refined your spells are, the better, and faster, they
 will work.
 POPPET
 A poppet is a doll fashioned from
 cloth or clay to represent a person or
 persons at whom a spell is directed.
 The cloth doll is usually stuffed with
 Spanish moss, to give it form, and
 herbs that correspond with the pri
mary intention of the spell. When clay is used, small amounts
 of the primary herbs are crushed and then mixed in with
 the soft clay. Photographs, hair, nail clippings, and clothing
 160
P
 belonging to the person are then added to the doll. The
 intention is to make the doll resemble the person, so that
 what is done to the doll will in turn actually happen to the
 person.
 In most cases, poppets are used for love-drawing spells,
 healing rites, and in some cases to protect an individual from
 harm. The entire process is based on the first principle of
 magick, the Law of Similarity (also referred to as homeo
pathic or imitative magick), which basically states that like
 produces like, or that an effect may resemble its cause.
 Simply put, whatever you do to the symbolic representation
 of a person, place or thing will directly affect that same per
son, place, or thing.
 LOVE-BINDING SPELL
 The intention of this spell is to bind two people together.
 The first thing you need to do is make two poppets from red
 cloth. Leave one end of each poppet open for stuffing. Fill
 each poppet with equal amounts of the following ground
 herbs: clove, orris root, blessed thistle, coriander, yarrow, and
 Solomon’s seal. Insert into each poppet some hair, nail clip
pings, and handwriting from each person. Sew up the open
ings. If you have facial photographs, paste these on the front
 side of the dolls’ heads. Dress each poppet in a piece of cloth
ing belonging to the person the poppet is to represent.
 The poppets are then ready to bind together using the fol
lowing rite.
 Items needed: 3’ length of red silk cord, love-drawing
 oil, love-drawing incense, and one red candle that
 will burn for at least seven hours.
 Begin this spell on a Monday during the waxing moon.
 Place the red candle in the center of your altar and light the
 incense. Use a pin or sharp knife to etch the names of each
 161
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 person into the candle. Dress the candle with the love-drawing
 oil as you chant:
 Candle of love, work me this spell,
 That the one I do love will love me as well.
 Light the candle. Pass each poppet through the smoke
 of the incense and then through the candle flame as
 you say:
 Air and fire, bring forth my desire.
 Place the poppet that represents you seven inches to the
 left side of the candle and the poppet that represents your
 loved one seven inches to the right of the candle. See in
 your mind’s eye the one you love as you chant the following
 seven times:
 I enchant you by earth and heaven
 Turn to me, turn to me, turn to me by seven.
 Through moonlight and the black of night
 All of my love you shall requite.
 [Insert name] think of me with loving pleasure
 As you turn to me by daily measure.
 Now turn to me, turn to me
 For this I will, So Mote It Be.
 Let the candle burn for one hour. Repeat the spell
 exactly as you have just done it for six consecutive nights.
 Each time you do the spell, move the poppets one inch closer
 to the candle. On the seventh night the dolls should be
 touching the candle, but not to the point that they will catch
 fire. At this time you will allow the candle to burn out. As
 soon as the candle has extinguished itself, use the red cord
 to bind the poppets together face to face. Conceal the dolls
 in a place where you and your loved one will meet.
 162
P
 PERSONAL SUCCESS POPPET
 This poppet will help you land a new job, get a promo
tion, or achieve that special goal. You will need to make a
 doll out of a piece of your clothing. Coarsely grind equal
 amounts of the following herbs: cinnamon, bay, marigold,
 orange peel, rosemary, witch hazel. Fill the poppet with the
 herb mixture and sew up the opening. Affix a full length
 photograph of yourself to the front of the poppet. Tie a bright
 yellow silk sash around the poppet. Be sure the poppet is
 well-made and pleasing to look at. Place the poppet in the
 center of your altar and consecrate it for personal success.
 Items needed: One yellow or gold candle, success
 incense, and a shadow box large enough to hold the
 poppet and 60 small items.
 Start this rite on a Sunday morning during the waxing
 moon. Light the candle and incense. Pass the poppet
 through the incense smoke and then the candle flame chant
ing six times:
 With air and smoke, flame and fire
 I now consecrate thee to my desire.
 Hold the poppet close to your mouth. Speaking softly
 and with great intent, breathe your desire into the poppet.
 Repeat the process six times, each time passing the poppet
 through the incense and the flame of the candle as you re
peat the chant. Allow the candle to burn for one hour.
 Each day for the next 59 days, light the candle and speak
 of your desire. Then place an object that represents your
 desire next to the poppet in the box.
 For example, if you wanted a pay raise, place a picture of
 your boss in the box next to the poppet. The next day, place
 some of his or her handwriting in the box, then a copy of a
 paycheck with your new salary on it, and so on.
 163
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 At the end of the last day, allow the candle to burn out.
 Arrange all the items in the box along with the poppet in a
 manner that portrays your desire. Hang the shadow box on
 the wall near your desk, altar, or bed.
 THE HEALING POPPET
 Fashion small sticks of applewood into a human frame
 and cover with green cotton cloth to form the poppet. Fill
 with the following coarsely ground herbs: angelica, eucalyp
tus, ginseng, life everlasting, peppermint, spearmint, and
 wintergreen. Attach a photograph of the person to be healed
 to the poppet.
 Begin the spell during the waning moon. Place the
 poppet on your altar next to a black candle. Using your
 athame, inscribe the person’s name into the candle along
 with their ailment. Light the candle. Hold the poppet in
 front of the candle and chant the following seven times:
 I take away hurt, I take away pain
 From you body, this illness I drain.
 Visualize the illness leaving the poppet (and therefore
 the body of the sick person), and flowing into the black
 candle. Let the candle burn out. Place the poppet in a safe
 place and bury the candle far from your home.
 POTION
 You just can’t help associating glowing cauldrons and
 magickal potions with Witchcraft. Cartoons, movies, and fairy
 tales are filled with enchanting sorceresses whispering over
 steaming philters of fascination. One drink, and you are for
ever under her spell. Or, in a less favorable light, there is
 always a haggard old crone bending over her bubbling brew
 164
P
 of noxious goo, intended to bring instant death to the beau
tiful princess.
 From the Holy Bible to Shakespeare’s Macbeth, we find
 Witches and their magick potions healing the sick and deal
ing out death to the enemy. According to some ancient
 grimoires, with the right magickal potion you can become
 invisible, fly on a broomstick, be forever young and beauti
ful, or turn your neighbor into a toad. (I like that one, and
 I’m sorry to say that it isn’t available at this time. In fact,
 it may be that the powers of our ancestors have been slightly
 exaggerated.)
 The American Heritage Dictionary defines the word
 potion as “a dose or drink, especially a liquid drink or poi
son.” Basically potions are nothing more than herbs steeped
 in water for medicinal purposes. However, there are those
 occasions when a love potion is called for to rekindle a dying
 flame. A word of advice: Always be careful when making a
 potion. Follow the recipe exactly, and don’t get creative. There
 are some areas of magick that need to be approached with
 caution, and this is one of them.
 LOVE-DRAWING POTION
 Items needed: One glass sauce pan, dove’s blood ink,
 a small paint brush, sweet red wine, a metal tea ball,
 one cup honey, and the following herbs: 3 fresh mint
 leaves, 7 rosebud petals, 1 pinch orange zest (orange
 peel), 1 pinch coriander, and 1 pinch basil.
 Put the herbs into the tea ball and set aside. On the out
side of the glass pan, write the name of the person you
 desire seven times. On the inside of the pan, inscribe the
 symbol for Venus.
 Fill the pan with two cups of spring water. Bring the  water
 to a boil, insert the tea ball, turn off the heat, and allow the
 165
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 brew to steep for 10 minutes. Remove the tea ball and add
 the honey. Bring the liquid back to a boil and then reduce to
 a simmer. When the liquid has turned into a thick, yellow
 syrup, turn off the heat and allow it to cool. Pour the syrup
 into a bottle and label. Add several drops of the syrup to the
 wine, juice, or food you plan to serve your loved one.
 If you are feeling brave, invite your loved one to join
 you in a candlelight supper. Arrange a centerpiece of red,
 white, and gold heart shaped candles anointed with
 love-drawing oil, and small vases of pink rose buds.
 Burn love-drawing incense and wear your most alluring outfit.
 166
P
 Sample Menu
 White fruity wine (add 3 drops love potion).
 Hearts of palm arranged on a bed of romaine lettuce
 topped with seven cocktail shrimp, served with honey
 mustard dressing (add 3 drops of love potion to dressing).
 Baked quail (one each) garnished with
 spiced apple rings.
 Asparagus with hollandaise sauce (add 3 drops love
 potion to sauce).
 Long grain and wild rice with mushrooms.
 Heart shaped crepes filled with fresh strawberries,
 topped with whipped cream (add 3 drops love potion),
 and garnished with fresh mint leaves.
 Warm brandy (add 3 drops love potion).
 167
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 R
 RUNES
 The word “rune” comes from the Old Norse run, which
 means secret. The runes were an ancient Germanic alpha
bet, once used for everyday communication as well as for
 mystical purposes and divination. The Vikings used runes
 to protect their homes and add power to their swords and
 shields. The Shamans of Scandinavia used them in healing,
 to cast spells, and to protect burial mounds.
 The runes consist of 24 letters and one blank. The 24
 runes are dedicated to three Norse deities and are divided
 into three sets of eight, known as Freyr’s Aett, Hagal’s Aett,
 and Tyr’s Aett. The 25th, or blank, rune is called wyrd and
 symbolizes the unknowable or destiny. The traditional mean
ing of the blank rune is, “In the lap of the Gods,” or “What will,
 be will be.”
 Professionally crafted rune sets can be purchased at
 almost any New Age or Occult book store. These are nice
 because they come with an instruction book and storage
 pouch. However, it is just as easy to make your own, and
 infuse them with your energy during the process.
 168
R
 Flat, evenly shaped stones, ceramic tiles, wooden sticks,
 or self-hardening clay all make wonderful runes. Once they
 are painted or engraved with the appropriate rune symbol
 they become just as magickal as any store bought item. If
 you choose to make a set of runes you will also need to make
 a cloth pouch to keep them in. Choose a soft, heavy fabric in
 a color that will both protect and energize your runes when
 not in use.
 RUNE STONE MEANINGS
 Freyr’s Aett (first eight runes)
 1. Wunjo
 2. Gebo
 Joy. Joy and happiness coming into your life.
 Success. Good news. Joy in one’s work.
 Affection from a loved one.
 Reversed (the symbol is seen upside down):
 Opposite of the above.
 Partnership. There could be a gift involved.
 Always a positive sign because there is no
 reverse involved. Important development in
 a romantic relationship. Could mean marriage
 or business partnership.
 Reversed: There is no reverse. Same as above.
 169
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 3. Kano
 4. Raido
 5. Ansuz
 6. Thurisaz
 Open. Friendly, open, and warm. Strength,
 energy, and power. Positive action. Problems
 and troubles solved easily. Good things
 coming into your life. Good time to start
 something new.
 Reversed: Opposite of the above.
 Journey. Travel with pleasure, without prob
lems. Possible journey of the soul. Period of
 logical thought. A good time to buy or sell.
 Reversed: Opposite of the above.
 Signals. The spoken word or heeding advice.
 A time to think before speaking. Eloquence
 and ease. Discovery of secret ability.
 Reversed: Lies, trickery, general deceit. Get a
 second opinion.
 Gateway. Unexpected good luck. Good health.
 Protection. Warns against headstrong action.
 Reversed: No desire to heed the warnings
 about headstrong action, will press on regard
less. Your luck is running out. Self-deception.
 170
R
 7. Uruz
 8. Fehu
 Strength. Virility, good health and strong
 resistance. Of strong emotions. Could be
 recovering from ill health. Not much
 improvement in business matters. Could be
 a promotion.
 Reversed: Imminent failure. Weak will. Low
 vitality. Could be a small illness.
 Possessions. Signifies material gain, could
 mean wealth. Goals are now within your grasp.
 Ability to overcome opposition.
 Reversed: Loss or disappointment. Frustration.
 Hagal’s Aett (second eight runes)
 9. Sowelu
 10. Algiz
 Wholeness. Progress and success. Possible
 travel. Success with examinations. Good
 health. Recovery from illness. Conquest, vic
tory and power.
 Reversed: Warning against overworking. Be
 more considerate of your loved ones.
 Protection. Unexpected help from an unsym
pathetic person when it is most needed. A
 time to stand your ground. Be careful to hold
 tight to your principles. Invincibility.
 Reversed: Vulnerability. Possible loss or injustice.
 171
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 11. Perth
 12. Eithwaz
 13. Jera
 14. Isa
 Initiation. Secrets. Psychic powers. An unfore
seen turn of events. Possible news from afar.
 A joyful reunion with someone from the past.
 Reversed: Disappointment.
 Defense. Try to look ahead, anticipate what is
 coming. A time of difficulty that will require
 tact and diplomacy. After a slight delay, things
 will improve.
 Reversed: Warning, be ever watchful.
 Harvest. You will reap the benefits of your
 efforts. A time to receive what has been well
 earned. A good time to finalize a contract or
 complete a task. Financial matters will improve
 in the days to come.
 Reversed: Slight delay in financial improve
ment, could be a slight disappointment.
 Standstill. The ice rune. Indicates that you
 should remain still. You may be on thin ice so
 it is best not to move. Time of patience and
 understanding. Temporary parting. Sacrifice.
 Submission.
 Reversed: The ice is beginning to thaw, things
 will improve.
 172
R
 15. Naurthiz
 16. Hagalaz
 Constraint. A bad time to embark on any new
 venture. Avoid anything that seems to be a
 bargain or a quick way of making money with
out effort. Now is the time for patience
 and planning.
 Reversed: A time for caution. Think before
 acting. Make no moves at this time. If you
 have made an unwise choice, cut your losses
 and call it a day.
 Disruption. Unforeseen forces are working
 against you, be careful. Be prepared for an
 unpleasant surprise. Use caution.
 Reverse: You will be able to ride this one out.
 Keep fighting and don’t loose focus.
 Tyr’s Aett (third eight runes)
 17. Othila
 Separation. Separation in the sense of
 moving in a new direction at this time. There
 could be an inheritance or business deal on
 the horizon. The future is changing.
 Reversed: There could be financial disputes
 or opposition to a plan.
 173
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 18. Dagaz
 19. Inguz
 20. Laguz
 21. Mannaz
 Breakthrough. A time of transformation. Free
dom. A weight has been lifted from your shoul
ders. Winning, even when the odds are stacked
 against you. Positive changes are coming.
 Reversed: At last you can see the light at the
 end of the tunnel. Changes may be slow, but
 they’re still coming.
 Fertility. A goal realized. A problem solved.
 Time to relish in the victory of a job well done.
 Take a rest and reflect.
 Reversed: There is no reverse. Same as above.
 Flow. A long journey may be in the offing. A
 trip overseas. Time to go with the flow, your
 instincts. Feel rather than think.
 Reversed: Heed good advice from others. Look
 out for temptation. Not a good sign.
 Self. Time to think about yourself. Plan
 changes. A good time to change employment
 or residence. You are making steady progress.
 Reversed: Keep your emotions in control at
 this time; changes may be postponed.
 174
R
 22. Ehwaz
 23. Berkana
 24. Teiwaz
 Movement. New beginnings. A time of excite
ment. Change is in the air. Travel. A
 good time to keep things in perspective. You
 feel confident.
 Reversed: Be mindful of others and keep emo
tions in check.
 Growth. New energies are present. New
 ventures are on the horizon. Could mean
 birth or pregnancy for a woman. New and
 fresh ideas. Possible sign of marriage. A fa
vorable time.
 Reversed: Keep a keen eye out for family prob
lems, disruptions with friends, or anxiety.
 Warrior. A time to move forward and experi
ence an adventure. New things on the hori
zon. A time to be bold and courageous.
 Victory can be yours. A time of great passion.
 Reversed: There could be a loss in business.
 Stagnation. A time of raw emotions. Take care
 and be careful.
 175
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 25. The last rune,
 the blank rune.
 Wyrd: The unknowable. Fate. This rune tells
 you to place your fate with the Gods. There is
 nothing you can do at this time. Fate is power.
 You must let be what will be. Your problem or
 situation is way beyond your control at this
 time. “In the lap of the gods” signifies pow
erful changes, changes that are out of your
 control. There is no reverse for this rune. Use
 the other runes in your reading for advice.
 RUNE LAYOUT PATTERNS
 One rune method
 This is by far the easiest method for reading the runes,
 especially if you have a specific question that needs immedi
ate attention. Cup the runes in your hand, concentrate on
 your question, and ask it aloud. Place the runes back in their
 pouch and mix them thoroughly. Dip into the pouch and
 pull one rune only. This will be the answer to your question.
 The nice thing about the runes, and this particular
 method, is that you can use them anywhere. So if you are at
 work and having a problem with someone or something, use
 your break time to consult the runes. They will provide you
 with a quick solution to set things right again.
 Three rune method
 This method is very much like the first. Cup the runes
 in your hand, concentrate on your question, and ask it aloud.
 Place the runes back in the pouch and mix them thoroughly.
 Pull three runes from the pouch and place them in front of
 you (see diagram). The first rune, to the left, indicates the
 basis of the problem, or present situation. The middle rune
 176
R
 shows the vibrations currently surrounding you. The last
 rune, the one you placed to the right, gives you the answer
 or suggests the proper action to be taken.
 The runic cross method
 Cup the runes in your hand, concentrate on
 your question, and speak it aloud. Put the runes back in the
 pouch and mix them thoroughly. Pull five runes fromthe
 pouch, one at a time. Lay the first three out in a row from
 left to right. The fourth goes above the center stone and the
 fifth is placed below the center stone. All five stones should
 be face down.
 Turn the center stone up. This represents the present
 situation and what is going on now. The stone to the left is
 the past. Turn this stone over next; it will tell you which past
 vibrations are still affecting the present situation.
 The top stone is next. This stone explains what outside
 help or self-help is necessary to improve the situation as it
 stands. The bottom stone is now turned over. This stone will
 tell you what changes can or cannot be expected.
 The last stone to be turned over is the one on the right
 arm of the cross. This stone represents the future, the final
 outcome of the reading. For more clarification, pull a sixth
 rune. This rune is placed at the bottom of the cross, under
 the fifth stone. This sixth rune will denote new, fresh influ
ences that could affect the situation and its final outcome.
 177
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 If you are new to Witchcraft and uncertain about which
 method of divination to choose, start with the runes. They
 are easy to make and convenient to use, and there is very
 little left up to personal interpretation. Because of their size,
 runes travel well. They can be read almost anywhere and in
 any situation. Keep a set of runes in your purse, briefcase, or
 school locker. Use your coffee break, lunch hour, or recess
 time to consult them about the events of the day.
 The best way to become proficient with the runes, or any
 of the divination systems mentioned, is by using them on a
 regular basis. Before you leave for work or start your day,
 take a moment to consult your runes, cards, or tea leaves.
 You don’t need to be in crisis to seek higher wisdom or spiri
tual guidance. Use your divination skills to help set daily
 and weekly goals or to indicate areas where personal progress
 can be made. A simple question like “What should I work on
 today?” will provide you with the motivation and direction
 needed to live the magickal life.
 178
S
 S
 SHAMANISM
 Shamanism is probably the oldest magickal system in the
 world and probably comes from Siberia and Central Asia. Its
 practices include the use of visions, altered states of con
sciousness, and contact with nature gods and spirits. Evi
dence of Shamanism can be seen almost everywhere; the
 most often cited examples are found in the cave paintings in
 southern France. These paintings date back to 35,000 B.C.
 and depict men dressed in animal skins performing a hunt
ing ritual. Through imitation and participation with the ani
mals and the natural world, the Shaman obtained his or her
 empowerment.
 When our Paleolithic ancestors came to North America
 from Siberia, they brought magickal practices with them. As
 these groups sprea across the continent, different cultures,
 folkways, and belief systems developed among the tribes.
 179
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 The practices and rites of the Shamans were geared to
 the tribe’s cultural orientation. The Shaman of a hunting
 tribe would usually work with the spirits of animals; the
 Shaman of a tribe involved with agriculture would work with
 the elements that supported a good harvest. All considered
 the changing of the seasons as well as birth, death, mar
riage, and puberty to be of importance and addressed these
 occasions according to tribal custom.
 Originally the Shaman was a member of the tribe, who,
 through trance, journeyed to other worlds. While the
 Shaman was in this altered state, he would commune with
 spirits, gain wisdom, and acquire new methods of healing.
 The prime purpose of the Shaman was to bring back infor
mation from his journey to help guide and protect his people.
 THE VISION QUEST
 The Shaman is a trained individual who enters and leaves
 states of consciousness at will. While in these states of
 altered consciousness, he or she will journey to various
 domains of the inner world. This journey that the Shaman
 undertakes usually puts him or her in contact with spirits of
 ancestors, totem animals, and higher plane teachers. The
 purpose of the journey is to obtain power, knowledge, and
 wisdom from the inner world contacts and bring it back to
 the realm of reality.
 Also included in the journey process is the custom of  going
 on a vision quest. In the traditional vision quest, the individual
 is sent off into seclusion, without food, and with only a blan
ket for warmth, to “catch a spirit.” During this time of separa
tion from the world of reality, the person acquires his or her
 guardian spirit and a portion of his or her medicine power.
 180
S
 MEDICINE POWER
 The term medicine refers to an individual’s unique tal
ents and skills and the ability to blend these skills or talents
 with the forces of nature. When skills are combined with the
 knowledge and wisdom gained from an inner world journey
 or vision quest, they become the medicine power used to
 heal and help others.
 Places, personal objects, fetishes, and animals are also
 considered to have medicine power. When the Shaman goes
 into a trance, he or she searches for the special power of a
 place, object, or spirit. Once the answer to the question, prob
lem, or situation has been acquired, the Shaman will then
 return to the world of reality, bringing the healing answer
 with him or her.
 CLEANSING AND SMUDGING
 Before every ceremony or healing, the in
dividuals participating should be cleansed of
 bad feelings and negative vibrations that may
 be attached to them. The cleansing is accom
plished by passing smoke from burning herbs
 over the body. The most commonly used herbs
 are sage (to drive out unwanted spirits), cedar (to carry
 prayers to the creator), and sweetgrass (to bring in good spir
its and influences).
 Another form of purification (considered to be the best)
 is the sweat lodge. During the rite of the sweat lodge all the
 powers of the universe—earth, water, fire, air, breath, and
 sky—are called upon. The lodge is built from red willows
 and covered with hides. In the center of the lodge is a pit
 into which heated rocks, called the stone people, are placed.
 As each stone is placed in the pit, it is named and receives a
 181
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 force or power of nature. During the sweat lodge, the sacred
 pipe and the smudge are used with prayers to cleanse and
 purify those taking part in the ceremony.
 THE SACRED PIPE
 The sacred prayer pipe is the “tool
 of tools,” the most powerful and most
 cherished gift of Native American
 tribes. The prayers and desires of the
 tribe are carried to the Great Spirit and Sky Father on the
 smoke from the pipe. The pipe is used in all Native Ameri
can ceremonies and is considered to be the axis mundi, the
 central point of time and space, the supreme support of all
 things, and that which connects heaven and Earth. The pipe
 acts as a traveling altar and becomes the center of focus for
 all rituals or ceremonies.
 The pipe’s bowl represents the Goddess and Earth
 Mother aspect of the Great Spirit. The pipe’s stem is the
 God and Sky Father part of the Great Spirit. When these two
 elements are united for the purpose of sharing breath, they
 create peace, harmony, and unity among those participating
 in the ceremony.
 THE MEDICINE WHEEL
 The medicine wheel is a symbol of
 the universe and represents completion.
 It is a place where men and women learn
 to sing the song of the world, become
 whole again, and unite with the Earth
 Mother and Sky Father. When properly
 constructed, the medicine wheel becomes
 182
S
 transition, self-realization, and communication with the spir
its of nature.
 The wheel is constructed by clearing an area large enough
 to accommodate the people using in it. A stone or stake driven
 into the ground to symbolize the Great Spirit marks the cen
ter of the wheel. Stakes or rocks painted in the correspond
ing elemental colors mark the four cardinal points. Other
 rocks, sticks, sacred objects, flowers, and feathers are used
 to designate certain areas. Simple or elaborate, the medicine
 wheel serves as a place for meditation, a symbol of the uni
verse, or a circle of protection for sacred ceremonies.
 THE GUARDIAN SPIRIT
 The Shaman believes that everyone is born with a guard
ian spirit. This belief is common among a lot of different
 peoples, especially those practicing nature oriented religions.
 During initiations, vision quests, and trances, the individual
 is able to communicate with his or her guardian spirit.
 In some societies it is believed that this guardian spirit is in
 part related to the spirit of the individual, a sort of eternal
 cosmic twin energy.
 The totem spirit serves in different capacities. It can be a
 badge or emblem of a tribe or clan, representing their prin
cipal purpose or focus. The totem can also serve as a sacred
 personal talisman chosen for symbolism pertinent to the
 individual’s personality. In either case, it usually provides
 protection, gives counsel during times of trouble, and when
 properly appeased brings prosperity.
 SUN
 Symbolically, the sun represents supreme masculine power,
 omniscient divinity, heart of the cosmos, and splendor of the
 universe. In most traditions the sun is the universal father,
 183
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 with the moon as the mother. Constantly rising and setting,
 the sun symbolizes both life and death, and the renewal of
 life through death. The sun is the visible image of divine
 goodness.
 184
T
 T
 TALISMAN
 According to MacGregor Mathers, ceremonial magician,
 author, and founder of the Golden Dawn magickal order, a
 talisman is “a magickal figure charged with the force it is
 intended to represent,” and is usually constructed to attain
 a particular result. When it is properly constructed, a
 talisman’s effectiveness is obvious immediately, or at least
 within seven days of its construction. Generally talismans
 are employed for use in obtaining long-term goals. For ex
ample, a talisman might be constructed to get a job promo
tion, to induce love that will lead to marriage, or to create a
 barrier of protection around a home or loved one.
 The nice thing about a talisman is that once it has been
 created and charged, it can be left to do its work; the energy
 set up by the operator continues to work over a set period of
 time. Talismans work like batteries and have the benefit of
 being self-recharging to some extent (provided they’ve been
 properly constructed). This recharging ability is due to the
 relationship between the talisman and a corresponding sym
bolic force.
 Talismans play an important role in magick, because they
 have the ability to summon and hold elemental energies and
 185
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 powers. Most importantly, they allow you to intensify and
 extend your personal magnetism beyond the normal ranges.
 This is made possible because of the occult symbolism that
 is embodied within the talisman.
 Ancient magickal seals, like those found in the Key of
 Solomon, contain power that has been built up over hun
dreds of years of use. The symbolism within these seals re
flects the inner universe of human nature and provides a
 means by which it can be manipulated and controlled.
 Talismans have the ability to unlock the powers within
 us and to provide access to the powers outside of us. As a
 carefully crafted vehicle of magickal force, the talisman di
rects energy toward a desired goal to help bring it into reality.
 The most widely recognized seals or talismans come from
 the Key of Solomon. They correspond to the seven major
 planets and can be used alone or added to spells. Their pres
ence within a magickal work aligns that work with the plan
etary energy being represented.
 TALISMAN SEALS FROM THE KEY OF SOLOMON
 The first pentacle of the sun. The counte
nance of El Shaddai, favored by those who
 wish to obtain all things that they desire. In
corporate this talisman into magical works
 designed to bring success and prosperity.
 The fourth pentacle of the sun. Designed to
 enable the owner to see others as they really
 are. When this seal is in the vicinity of a friend
 or foe, their true thoughts will be revealed. It
 also enables the owner to see spirits. Use to
 uncover the truth in all situations.
 186
T
 The first pentacle of the moon. Said to call
 forth the spirits of the moon to open all doors,
 no matter how they may be fastened. Use this
 talisman to help gain entrance into clubs,
 sororities, and magical lodges. Can help with
 intuition and psychic work.
 The fourth pentacle of the moon. Will serve
 to defend its owner from evil and from all
 injury to the body or soul. It also gives the
 knowledge and virtue of all herbs and stones
 to whoever possesses it. Combine this talis
man with a protection spell.
 The first pentacle of Mars. Said to invoke
 the powers of Mars for gaining courage,
 enthusiasm, ambition, and all physical accom
plishments. Use in personal power rituals to
 boost strength, endurance, and magnetism.
 The fourth pentacle of Mars. Use to bring
 victory in war, to lend its power to bring vic
tory over all enemies, and to vindicate its
 owner in all situations. Combine this pentacle
 with protection rituals and spells, as well as
 those to overcome obstacles.
 The third pentacle of Mercury. Is used to
 influence the written word, tending to make
 one eloquent in letters, papers, or any form
 of writing. Because Mercury is the planet of
 communication, this is a great talisman to use
 when trying to sell your ideas to another by
 way of the written word.
 187
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 The fourth talisman of Mercury. Will help
 its owner acquire knowledge and understand
ing of all things. Can be used to penetrate hid
den thoughts. A great talisman to use if you
 are in school or studying for a test. Can also
 help you learn what others may be thinking.
 The fourth pentacle of Jupiter. Used to ac
quire great wealth, riches, and honor. It should
 be engraved on silver and used to enhance
 prosperity and money-drawing rituals or spells.
 Will bring honor as well as wealth to its owner.
 The sixth pentacle of Jupiter. Will protect
 its owner from all earthly dangers. By simply
 regarding the talisman every day and repeat
ing “ thou shalt never perish,” one is sur
rounded by the protective force of the
 talisman. Can be used in conjunction with
 protection spells and rituals.
 The second pentacle of Venus. Is used for
 obtaining grave honor, and accomplishing all
 desires in matters of the heart. This pentacle
 belongs to Venus and will bring its owner
 honor in all things, especially those which
 involve love. Add this pentacle to love and
 friendship spells.
 188
T
 The fourth pentacle of Venus. Has great
 power and will to compel the spirits of Venus
 to obey. When used with love spells, this talis
man will force any person you wish to come to
 you. Pentacle should be engraved on copper.
 The second pentacle of Saturn. Of great
 value when meeting with adversaries in busi
ness. This talisman should be carried when
 looking for work or when negotiating finan
cial deals. Use in combination with the fourth
 pentacle of Jupiter to protect monetary gain.
 The fifth pentacle of Saturn. Defends those
 who invoke the spirits of Saturn during the
 night, chasing away bad spirits and guarding
 treasure. It is a good talisman to use to protect
 the home and all the items in it. Place on the
 back of a mirror to reflect negative vibrations.
 (For a comprehensive listing of all the planetary pentacles
 and related talismans see The Key of Solomon The King (Clavicula
 Salomonis), translated from ancient manuscripts in the British
 Museum by S. Liddell MacGregor Mathers and then prepared for
 publication under the editorship of L.W. de Laurence around 1900.
 Since then, The Key of Solomon The King has been reprinted on a
 regular basis by various British and American publishers. The most
 recent issue comes from Samuel Weiser, Inc., 1974, with a forward by
 Richard Cavendish.)
 189
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 TRIPLE GODDESS
 The triple Goddess can be found in almost all mytholo
gies. She was at once virgin, mother, and crone; the waxing,
 full, and waning moon. All that was feminine, enchanting,
 ripe, and wise. One of the most popular triple goddesses
 was the Greek Hecate, who reigned over heaven, earth, and
 the underworld, where she controlled birth, life, and death.
 To demonstrate her triple nature, Hecate carried three
 magick symbols, the key, rope, and dagger. The key unlocked
 the door to the underworld—opening the way to the myster
ies and secrets of knowledge and the afterlife. The rope sym
bolized the umbilical cord of rebirth and renewal—the
 connection between humanity and the Goddess. The double
 edged dagger symbolised her power to cut through delusion.
 Hecate was the giver of visions, magick, and regenera
tion, the guardian at the gates of the underworld. As a guard
ian, she was associated with crossroads and the ability to see
 beyond death. This is because when you stand at a cross
roads, you can view the past from whence you came, as well
 as the future, your destination.
 INVOCATION OF HECATE
 (To ask for Hecate’s blessing or help)
 Items needed: One large black candle, censer, church
 charcoal, Hecate incense (three oz. black incense base
 mixed with one pinch patchouli leaves, one tsp.
 granulated myrrh, three drops patchouli oil, and three
 drops jasmine oil), black cloth, altar, chalice of red
 wine, plate of moon cakes (sugar cookies cut into cres
cent moons), piece of rope, old fashioned door key,
 and your athame.
 190
T
 For optimum effectiveness, perform this invocation at a
 crossroads and as near to midnight as possible. Before the
 ritual inscribe your name and desire on the black candle.
 Gather together all the items called for, along with some
thing to serve as an altar, and proceed to the crossroads. Set
 the altar on top of the crossroads, where all four paths meet.
 Arrange the altar with the black candle in the center; the
 athame front center, the rope right center, the key left center,
 and the censer center back. Light the charcoal and some
 incense. Take several deep breaths. Relax. Focus on your
 desire. When you feel the time is right, light the black candle,
 pick up the wine and hold it in offering as you invoke Hecate.
 Thou who whispers, gentle and strong,
 Thou for whom my soul doth long,
 By most men you are seldom seen
 You are the virgin, mother, and queen.
 Through the veil you pass with pride,
 I beckon thee now to be at my side,
 Hecate.
 Thou who knows, thou who conceals
 Thou who gives birth, thou who feels,
 For you are the Goddess and mother of all
 Pray thee now— come as I call.
 Now through the mist I hear your voice,
 I invoke the gracious goddess by choice,
 Hecate.
 Thou who suffers as all men die
 Doth with her victim in love lie.
 You are the goddess and crone of despair
 And with you our ending we must share.
 I feel thy passion, I feel thy presence,
 I rapture in your vital essence,
 Hecate.
 191
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 I pray thee dancer of eternal bliss,
 Bestow upon me thy wondrous kiss,
 Let now thy light, love, and power
 Become as one with me this hour.
 For you are the creatress of heaven and Earth
 So to my dreams and wishes give birth,
 Hecate.
 Ask for your desire and Hecate’s blessing. Drink some of
 the wine and eat one of the cakes in her honor. Allow the
 candle to burn for one hour and then extinguish it. Leave a
 libation of wine and the rest of the cakes on the crossroads.
 Pack up all your magickal items and leave the area as you
 found it.
 192
U
 U
 UNCROSSING
 Uncrossing is used in Witchcraft and magick to remove
 evil influences, negative spells, and black magick. For the
 most part, an uncrossing ritual is done during the waning
 moon or during the dark moon, the few hours before the
 moon begins to wax. In some cases the energy will be sent
 directly back to the individual who sent it in the first place.
 However, sometimes this is not possible. If the identity of
 the individual is not known, or if the exact specifications of
 the original crossing ritual cannot be determined, then the
 energy is magickally eliminated, usually by forcing it into a
 proper receptacle that can be buried or burned.
 UNCROSSING RITUAL
 Items needed: One black candle, salt, fireproof pot,
 black cord, and 150 proof alcohol or Florida water.
 One hour before the moon begins to wax, when it’s at its
 darkest, set your altar with the necessary items. Cast your
 magick circle with the salt. Tie the black cord around the
 waist of the person on whom a negative spell has been placed
 193
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 and stand them in the center of the circle. Light the black
 candle and say with great force:
 Fast as the wind, swift as the night,
 Banish the evil with the light.
 Seek thee out where ere thee be
 And invoke the law of three.
 Light the firepot. Then, as you would do with smudge,
 stand arms’ length away and run the firepot up and down in
 front of the person. Still holding the pot, walk three times
 around the person, chanting:
 I end your curses with power of thought,
 All your works have come to naught.
 Be gone, be gone, all evil rebound,
 Then perish and fade into the ground.
 As fire and flame, pure cleansing light
 Banish forever [insert name]’s plight.
 Place the firepot on the altar. Untie the black cord and
 allow it to fall to the ground, still within the salt circle. Have
 the person step out of the circle. Place the still burning firepot
 on top of the spot were the person was standing. While the
 pot burns, both chant:
 Thou who caused this torment bad,
 Shall live a life woeful and sad.
 When the pot has completely burned out, extinguish the
 candle. Dig a small hole in the center of the salt circle and
 bury the cord and black candle. Cover with dirt. Pack up all
 your tools, turn, and walk away. Do not look back.
 194
U
 UNICORN
 The Unicorn is a mythical beast with one
 phallic horn on its forehead, a horselike body,
 and a goat’s beard. It symbolizes the union of
 opposites, undivided sovereign power, virgin
ity, and love.
 As a water conner, the horn of the unicorn can detect
 poison in water and render it harmless. In Christian sym
bolism, the horn of the unicorn denotes Christ and the
 Father as one, and as an antidote to poison, it represents the
 power of Christ to destroy sin.
 Most Wiccans view the unicorn as a magickal beast that
 has the power to enchant virgins and beautiful women. When
 crushed and powdered, his horn makes a powerful aphrodi
siac. It is believed that Morgan la Fey used the powder to
 seduce King Arthur and bear his child.
 UNICORN ENCHANTMENT
 Items needed: One white candle, gold paint, fairy dust,
 and a photograph of the person to be enchanted.
 On one side of the candle, paint the silhouette of the
 unicorn, and write the name of your beloved next to
 it. Place the candle on top of the photograph and
 light it. Sprinkle some of the fairy dust over the flame
 and photo as you chant:
 By unicorns, fairies, and mystical dust,
 Now for me does [insert name] lust.
 His [her] passion burns as does this fire
 With aching torment and desire.
 Allow the candle to burn out. Place the photo under your
 pillow, sprinkle with fairy dust, and dream of your loved one.
 He or she should be yours in seven days.
 195
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 V
 VISUALIZATION
 Creative visualization is a technique Witches and magi
cians use to make their dreams come true. In essence, it is a
 fancy name for the old children’s game of “let’s pretend.”
 The idea is to create an image in your mind’s eye of some
thing you desire. You then empower this image through con
centrated meditation, forcing the image into reality. If you
 want something bad enough and think about it hard enough,
 it will happen.
 The keys to making creative visualization work are best
 expressed in the witch’s mystical triangle.
 Belief
 Desire
 Visualize
 196
V
 Belief: The number one key is the most important. The more
 your believe in your goal or object of desire, the more likely
 you are to achieve it. What you believe can happen, you can
 make happen.
 Desire: You must have a powerful desire. This means you
 must be totally, passionately, and thoroughly engrossed with
 your desire. It must be so strong that it will take precedence
 over all other things. You must be obsessed with your goal
 so as to stir the emotions into action.
 Visualize: For creative visualization to work, you must be able
 to create a clear mental picture of your desire. You must be
 able to create in your mind’s eye an exact image of what you
 want, as if you were looking at a photograph of it. To make
 creative visualization work, you have to create a mental picture
 so strong that the sheer power of your will forces it to manifest
 The key to magick lies in your ability to visualize your
 desire into reality. There can be no doubt, lack of desire, or
 impotent emotion involved. Every ounce of energy and power
 you have must be put into your visualization if you want it to
 manifest. This means you must focus your attention and
 psychic energy with laser-sharp accuracy toward the object
 of your desire. Then you must believe that what you are do
ing will really happen.
 197
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 W
 WAND
 In practice, the wand is the primary working tool of the
 Witch. It represents his or her rod of power and authority.
 During ritual, the wand becomes an extension of the Witch’s
 magickal jurisdiction. Personal power is forced through the
 wand, with a laser-like intensity, toward a specific target. When
 the psychic energy and target meet, activation occurs, and
 the Witch’s intentions are set into motion.
 The wand, like every magickal tool, has a distinctive char
acter and represents a specific action, thought, or emotion.
 In Witchcraft, the wand is associated with the element of
 Air, which is symbolic of the mind, the intellect, and com
munication. It provides the Witch with a means of channel
ing abstract thought forms, as well as energy, onto the material
 plane. Once the thought form takes shape and is energized,
 it will become the medium to manifest desire.
 The main reason the wand is so popular is its simplicity.
 There is nothing complicated or difficult to understand about
 198
W
 its construction or purpose. The wand is simply a tool
 for channeling energy from the spiritual plane to the
 material plane.
 A wand is very easy to make. A small branch with a crys
tal or favorite rock attached, wrapped in leather, works nicely.
 A simple copper tube with crystals, amethyst, or rose quartz
 connected to the ends produces a wonderful energy con
ductor. Brass tubing found in most craft shops has all sorts
 of possibilities, and even wooden dowels from a lumber store
 can, with some imagination, be turned into elegant wands.
 My wand is made from copper tubing, is 11” long, and
 has a rose quartz on one end and an amethyst on the other.
 Connecting the ends is silver solder spiraled down the shaft.
 On this there are four stones: garnet, rhodochrosite, gem
 silica, and lapis. Because of the magickal properties associ
ated with these particular gems, this combination helps to
 balance power through self-love and spiritual insight.
 WAND CONSECRATION
 Items needed: One white candle, bowl of salt, bowl of
 water, sandalwood incense, wand.
 Perform this rite during the waxing moon. Light the
 white candle and the sandalwood incense as you say:
 Let now the powers of life and light
 Bless and protect me on this night.
 Pick up the wand and sprinkle it with salt, pass it through
 the incense smoke and candle flame and then sprinkle with
 water as you say:
 199
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Forces of good, of life and of light,
 Descend into my wand this night
 For this is a tool of my sacred art
 So your powers I ask, now impart.
 With the elements of Earth, Air, Fire, and Sea,
 I now baptize, bless, and consecrate thee!
 My will be done, So Mote It Be.
 WATER
 Water has long been seen as the source of all potentiali
ties in existence. It is associated with the Great Mother, the
 universal womb, birth, and fertility. Water is emblematic of
 the life-giving and life-destroying capabilities of the cosmos.
 As an element, it encourages moderation and cools anger
 brought on by too much Fire. It also stabilizes the illusions
 caused by an excess of Air.
 WATER MAGICK
 Water Condenser
 A water condenser is a special, magickally charged,
 potion. It is made from herbs, water, and alcohol, to which a
 bit of gold or silver is added. The condenser helps to inten
sify and store the powers from the herbs and metal for fu
ture magickal use.
 The water condenser are good for attracting love, friend
ships, affection, good health and emotional stability.
 200
201
 W
 Love Drawing Condenser
 Items Needed: Small pot or cauldron, spring water, pink
 or red rose petals, 8 oz. vodka, clear glass bowl, a
 piece of silver, plastic wrap, ruby red bottle.
 Pour the water into the pot and bring to a boil. Add a
 handful of rose petals, cover the pot, and turn off the heat.
 Allow the petals to steep for one hour. Add some vodka to
 the mixture to preserve it.
 When the mixture has cooled, pour it into a the bowl.
 Place the piece of silver in the bottom of the bowl. Place
 Water Correspondence Chart
 VALUES Emotion, intuition, devotion, mysticism
 COLORS Green, turquoise
 SYMBOLS Crescent, shells, boats, ship wheel,
 anchor, cup
 TOOLS Vessel, grail, chalice, cauldron
 PLANTS Aloe, cucumber, dulse, gardenia, lily,
 lotus, willow
 STONES Aquamarine, chrysocolla, moonstone,
 mother-of-pearl
 PLACES Ocean, river, lakes, ponds, waterfalls,
 beaches
 ZODIAC Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces
 ARCHANGEL Gabriel
 TIMES Autumn, sunset
 DIRECTIONS West
 PROCESSES Love, nurture, sensitivity, psychic
 ability, healing
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 your hands over the bowl and infuse the condenser with
 your thoughts and desires as you chant:
 From Earth to Water and river to sea
 The love I desire shall come unto me.
 By power of herb and deep emotion,
 Bring true love and deep devotion.
 Cover the bowl with the plastic wrap and place it in
 direct moonlight. Allow the condenser about an hour to
 absorb the power from the moon. Store the condenser in the
 ruby red bottle, along with the silver. Label and use in love
drawing spells or to dress candles.
 Water Wishing Spell
 Items needed: One large white bowl, one blue glass
 seven day candle, white flower petals, rosewater.
 Place the candle in the center of the bowl. Fill the bowl
 with water and add seven drops of rosewater and the flower
 petals.
 While stirring the water with your right index finger, speak
 of your desire. Light the candle and say:
 Water and Fire
 Manifest my desire.
 Leave the bowl until the candle has completely burned
 out. Pour the water on a growing plant or in your garden.
 Affirm once more your desire.
 WATER INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
 Aloes Wood (love, strength): Burn aloes wood to attract love
 and good fortune. Very high spiritual vibrations, will attract
 love if carried or worn.
 202
W
 Cherry (love, divination): Mix one drop cherry oil with three
 drops Orchid oil, and three drops violet oil, wear to attract
 love. Add a tiny bit of cherry oil to vanilla and myrrh crys
tals, burn during divination to reveal your true love.
 Gardenia (love, peace, healing): Burn gardenia incense to create
 a peaceful and loving atmosphere. Use gardenia petals to
 attract good spirits and love.
 Jasmine (love, money, prophetic dreams): Wear jasmine oil to
 attract spiritual love. Mix three drops jasmine oil with san
dalwood chips and frankincense and burn for prophetic
 dreams.
 Lilac (protection): Plant lilacs in window boxes or around the
 outside of the house for protection. Mix lilac oil with sandal
wood chips and burn for protection.
 Rose (love, luck, psychic power): Bathe with rosewater to
 attract love. String rose hips together to make a love-draw
ing necklace. Rose petals sprinkled around the bedroom and
 home will bring peace and harmony.
 WITCH BOTTLE
 The Witch bottle is most often used to protect personal
 property and the home. It is easy to make and very effective.
 All you need is a small glass jar with a tight fitting lid. You
 then fill the jar with bits of broken glass, nails, thorns, steel
 wool, nettles, vinegar, salt, and your own urine.
 At midnight, during the waning of the moon, place the
 bottle and a black candle on your altar. Light the black candle,
 and completely cover the lid of the jar with the melted wax
 to form a permanent seal. On top of the lid, inscribe a pen
tagram into the wax. Hold both hands over the bottle and
 speak the following incantation:
 203
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Candle of black in this dark hour
 Grant to me the magick power
 To reverse the flow of evil cast
 And leave all sorrow in the past.
 Allow the candle to burn out. Bury the jar near your
 front door as a shield of protection. The Witch bottle should
 be recharged every three months in order to retain its strength.
 204
Letter
 Y
 YARROW
 Yarrow grows with a straight, angular stem bearing gray
green, feathery, finely divided leaves. Referred to as “bad
 man’s plaything,” yarrow is often the main ingredient in 17th
 and 18th century love spells. Even today, the stalk of the
 herb is still used by Chinese fortunetellers as an aid in con
sulting the I Ching.
 YARROW LOVE SPELL
 To dream of the one you will love and marry, from a
 church yard pluck a stalk of yarrow on the  night of the full
 moon saying:
 Yarrow, sweet yarrow, that I have found,
 With love I pluck thee from the ground.
 As a man takes a woman sweet and dear
 In my dreams this night let my true love appear.
 Place the yarrow stalk under your pillow and you will
 dream of the person you will marry.
 205
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Z
 ZODIAC
 The word zodiac is derived from the Greek zoidiakos, or
 “figures of animals.” It resembles a circle that has been di
vided into 12 sections of 30 degrees each and is traversed by
 the sun, moon, and planets each year. Its 12 signs are named
 after the adjacent constellations that form a great belt around
 the earth. Each sign governs a month, represented by a sym
bolic figure that is related to one of the four Elements and
 human condition.
 As the sun enters a sign, all persons born during that
 period inherit or express the qualities and traits it represents.
 The real significance of the zodiac concerns the process by
 which primordial energy passes from the potential to the
 virtual or from sprit to matter. When the sun, moon, and
 planets pass through a sign they unify the energy of that
 sign to complement the monthly period and complete a seg
ment of yearly cycle.
 206
Z
 The Zodiac Wheel of The Year
 THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
 Aries
 March 21 through April 19. Symbol:
 ram; Element: Fire; Quality: cardinal;
 Ruling planet: Mars; Metal: iron;
 Gem: ruby or red jasper; Color: scarlet;
 Plant: geranium or sage.
 Like the Ram, Aries has a reputation for egotism, action,
 self-assertion, and the desire to be first. Aries is a masculine
 sign that is looking for identity. Aries can be fearless on the
 outside and timid on the inside. The ram spontaneously falls
 207
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 in love, but usually has a difficult time verbalizing his or her
 feelings. Headstrong and aggressive, the Aries has tremen
dous power and energy. Aries are leaders, entrepreneurs, and
 adventurers, usually pushing the envelope in their direction.
 Taurus
 April 20 through May 19. Symbol:
 bull; Element: Earth; Quality: fixed;
 Ruling planet: Venus, Metal: copper;
 Gem: topaz or emerald; Color: red
 and orange; Plant: clover and mallow.
 Taurus is stable, conservative, and practical, and values
 the comfortable, unchanging way of life. Taurus is down-to-Earth and one of the most productive signs, always
 searching for the true value and meaning of life. Like a bull,
 the Taurus usually remains passive and content, but when
 angered will attack. Fidelity and consistency are the sign’s
 virtues; obstinacy and refusal to change are its weaknesses.
 Gemini
 May 20 through June 20. Symbol:
 twins; Element: Air; Quality:
 mutable; Ruling planet: Mercury;
 Metal: quicksilver; Gem: alexan
drite; Color: orange; Plant: orchid
 and gladiolus.
 The search for variety is the trademark of the Gemini, who
 is always thinking and looking. Maddeningly inconsistent;
 Geminis can argue one point of view one day, and the com
pletely opposite view the next. The symbol that represents
 this sign embodies the essential split in its nature of always
 208
Z
 trying to view both sides of the coin at the same time. Geminis
 are the true Jacks of all trades, but unfortunately if their tal
ents are spread too thin, they may not realize their dreams.
 Cancer
 June 21 through July 22. Symbol: crab;
 Element: Water; Quality: cardinal;
 Ruling planet: moon; Metal: silver;
 Gem: emerald or turquoise; Color: am
ber; Plant: lotus or comfrey.
 The crab, with its soft and fleshy body covered by a hard
 and protective shell, depicts the nature of this sign. Cancer
 is the embodiment of compassion, caring, and maternal in
stincts, but it often hides these emotions behind a mask of
 indifference. When upset, Cancers withdraw into their shells
 but still have sharp pincers to attack with. Cancers are
 renowned homemakers and require domestic stability for hap
piness. As long as Cancers have a strong base from which to
 operate and to which they can retreat, they will succeed and
 reach their goals.
 Leo
 July 23 through August 21. Symbol:
 lion; Element: Fire; Quality: fixed; Rul
ing planet: sun; Metal: gold; Gem: opal
 or zircon; Color: yellowish green;
 Plant: sunflower or cyclamen.
 Just like the king of the jungle, Leo is proud, ostenta
tious, and the most egotistical of all the signs. It takes effort
 for Leos not to cross the line and become excessively vain,
 arrogant, and selfish. Leos live to make an impression and
 209
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 need to have an audience. Leos can be difficult to love and
 to work with, as they have very little sense of anyone but
 themselves. If Leos can learn to accept responsibility, per
sonal change, and the fact that others have feelings too, they
 make energetic and fun companions. To thrive, the Leo needs
 space and a spotlight.
 Virgo
 August 22 through September 22.
 Symbol: virgin; Element: Earth;
 Quality: mutable; Ruling planet:
 Mercury; Metal: quicksilver; Gem:
 diamond or chrysolite; Color: light green; Plant: snowdrop, lily,
 and narcissus.
 The Virgo is practical, productive, and prepared to sac
rifice its own interests in order to complete its assigned tasks.
 Virgos are always searching for something meaningful to do,
 which is an open door for those who would take advantage
 of their good nature and willingness to help. This sign is the
 embodiment of service. However, they are often fussy and
 obsessed with cleanliness and order to the point that they
 lose their ability to be spontaneous. Virgos need to balance
 out their perfectionism.
 Libra
 September 23 through October 22.
 Symbol: scales; Element: Air;
 Quality: cardinal; Ruling planet:
 Venus; Metal: copper; Gem: jade; Color: emerald green; Plant:
 aloe.
 The scales are the key to understanding Libra, who is
 constantly weighing the possibilities, and the choice at hand.
 210
Z
 Often crippled by indecision, in desperation the Libra will
 resort to making a choice, any choice, even though it may
 not be the best option. Ideally Libra’s function is to resolve
 opposing possibilities by seeking a third way. Ruled by
 Venus, the Libra likes things that are aesthetically pleasing,
 charming, and artistic. Libras tend to hide personal flaws
 they imagine might offend.. They are diplomats and like
 peaceful, harmonious surroundings.
 Scorpio
 October 23 through November 21. Sym
bol: scorpion; Element: Water; Quality:
 fixed; Ruling planet: Mars (with Pluto
 as a co-ruler); Metal: iron; Gem: carnelian; Color: greenish
 blue; Plant: cactus, hound’s tongue.
 The search for transformation is what motivates Scor
pios. The intense emotions of this sign are toughened by
 the influence of Mars, which gives it an obsessive, some
times abusive, quality. Those born under this sign have a
 keen sense for what is right and wrong. Scorpios are usually
 fascinated with the dark, hidden side of things. They make
 great Witches and magicians. The sign’s greatest strength is
 commitment, the ability to see things through to the end.
 Its greatest weakness is a reluctance to change or forgive.
 Sagittarius
 November 22 through December 21.
 Symbol: archer; Element: Fire;
 Quality: mutable; Ruling planet:
 Jupiter; Metal: tin; Gem: sapphire;
 Color: blue; Plant: rush and pimpernel.
 211
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Sagittarius is a deep, complicated sign, a mixture of
 instinct and reason always searching for wisdom. The com
bination of mutability and fire makes this sign unstable; its
 plans are often dropped before completion. Often possessed
 by wanderlust, idealism, and the search for truth, Sagittarius
 needs freedom. The sign’s greatest strength is optimism and
 enthusiasm, and its weakness is impracticality. However, when
 their faith is strong, Sagittarians get along well with little
 material success.
 Capricorn
 December 22 through January 20. Sym
bol: goat; Element: Earth;, Quality: car
dinal; Ruling planet: Saturn; Metal:
 lead; Gem: black opal or tourmaline; Color: indigo; Plant: thistle.
 The Capricorn is the ideal industrialist or merchant, let
ting no humanitarian concerns interfere with important busi
ness or money-making opportunities. Capricorns harbor
 powerful emotions that as Earth signs they find difficult to
 express. This sign can be very unimaginative, serious, and cau
tious when drawn into the world of materialism. Capricorns’
 greatest traits are their ability to heal and to have great visions.
 Their greatest downfall is being manipulative and deceitful.
 Aquarius
 January 21 through February 19.
 Symbol: water bearer; Element: Air;
 Quality: fixed; Ruling Planet: Saturn
 (with Uranus as co-ruler); Metal:
 lead; Gem: lapis lazuli or aquamarine; Color: violet; Plant:
 absinthe, fennel, and buttercup.
 212
Z
 The search for the Holy Grail defines the essence of
 Aquarius. This enigmatic sign is ruled by two planets with
 totally incompatible natures, one desiring order, the other
 tearing it down. The contradictions in this sign’s character
 are what makes it interesting. Aquarians are concerned, some
times to the point of obsession, with being new, radical, and
 different. They are often eccentric, frequently awkward, and
 always demanding freedom. The Aquarian is best at devel
oping new ideas but needs others to help carry them out.
 Pisces
 February 20 through March 20. Sym
bol: two fishes; Element: Water; Qual
ity: mutable; Ruling planet: Jupiter (with
 Neptune as co-ruler); Metal: tin; Gem:
 pearl or amethyst; Color: crimson; Plant: opium and birthwort.
 Pisces is the most unworldly of all the signs. It leans
 toward religion and mysticism and often withdraws from the
 world. Emotional and sensitive, Pisceans tend to wear many
 disguises to mask their vulnerability. Imaginative, artistic,
 and self-sacrificing, Pisces will succeed on the stage or in
 the church. Pisces’ strength lies in its ability to rise above
 materialism; its weakness lies in handling the real world.
 THE ZODIAC AND MAGICK
 Knowledge is power, we all desire power over our own
 lives. No one gets into magick to save the whales or the suf
fering masses. You can join the peace corps to do that. You
 get into magick to reclaim your personal power and hope
fully gain some control over your life and future.
 We all wear masks to hide our imagined flaws and
 imperfections. So, if you know the birth signs of people you’re
 213
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 dealing with, you have a better idea of discerning who they
 really are, as opposed to the images they portray. By know
ing something about the individual, you avoid doing things
 that will offend him or her and thus create an uncomfort
able situation. This type of knowledge can be of great magickal
 value when beginning a long-term relationship, starting part
nerships, getting your business proposal on the table, as well
 as when you are just trying to appease your mother-in-law.
 For example, to attract a Cancer (who basks in the light
 of domesticity), you will need to avoid any type of sudden
 movement that might infringe upon the home life. If you
 are an Aries contemplating a long-term business partner
ship, avoid the Leo—a space big enough for the two of you
 does not exist. That Geminis looking for love should steer
 clear of Libras, because by the time they get through analyz
ing the situation, they will be too old to do anything about it.
 And if your mother-in-law is a Scorpio, just agree with her.
 Since we are all born under a specific Zodiacal sign, the
 energies of that sign can be incorporated into magickal rites
 and spells. If you are planning to do a love attraction spell,
 consider incorporating the Zodiac symbols of the one you
 desire into your rite. Use a Zodiac candle to represent your
 boss in that promotional spell you are planning. And, just
 before that big proposal, burn a Zodiac candle for each
 person involved, as you visualize success.
 214
Bibliography
 BIBLIOGRAPHY
 Baer, Randall, and Vicki Baer. Windows of Light. San Fran
cisco: Harper and Row, 1984.
 Beyerl, Paul. Master Book of Herbalism. Custer, Wash.: Phoe
nix Publishing, 1984.
 Bias, Clifford. Ritual Book of Magic. York Beach, Maine: Samuel
 Weiser, 1982.
 Cunningham, Scott. The Complete Book of Incense, Oils, and
 Brews. St. Paul: Llewellyn Publications, 1989.
 Drury, Nevill. The Elements of Shamanism. Rockport, Mass.:
 Element Books, 1989.
 Eason, Cassandra. The Handbook of Ancient Wisdom. New
 York: Sterling Publishing, 1997.
 Goodwin, Joscelyn. Mystery Religions In The Ancient World.
 San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1981.
 Green, Marion. A Witch Alone. Wellingborough, England: The
 Aquarian Press, 1991.
 215
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 Green, Marion. The Elements of Natural Magic England.
 Rockport, Mass.: Element Books, 1992.
 Heisler, Roger. Path To Power, It’s All In Your Mind. York Beach,
 Maine: Samuel Weiser, 1990.
 Huson, Paul. Mastering Witchcraft. New York: Perigree/G. P.
 Putnam and Sons, 1970.
 Katzeff, Paul. Full Moons. Secaucus, N.J.: Citadel Press, 1981.
 Lewis, J. R., and E. D. Oliver. Angels A to Z. Detroit: Visible Ink
 Press, 1996.
 Liddell, S., and MacGregor Mathers. The Key of Solomon The
 King. York Beach, Maine: Samuel Weiser, 1974.
 Meyer, Marvin W. The Ancient Mysteries: A Source Book. San
 Francisco: Harper and Row, 1987.
 Sabrina, Lady. Cauldron of Transformation. St. Paul: Llewellyn
 Publications, 1996.
 Sabrina, Lady. Reclaiming The Power: The How and Why of
 Practical Ritual Magic. St. Paul: Llewellyn Publications, 1992.
 Skelton, Robin. Spell Craft. York Beach, Maine: Samuel Weiser,
 1978.
 Skelton, Robin. Talismanic Magic. York Beach, Maine: Samuel
 Weiser, 1985.
 Skelton, Robin. The Practice of Witchcraft Today. Secaucus,
 N.J., Citadel Press, 1990.
 Smith, Steven. Wylundt’s Book of Incense. York Beach, Maine:
 Samuel Weiser, 1989.
 216
Bibliography
 Starhawk. The Spiral Dance. San Francisco: Harper and Row,
 1979.
 Valiente, Doreen. Witchcraft for Tomorrow. New York: St.
 Martin’s Press, 1978.
 217
The Witch
 ’s Master Grimoire
 ’ ’
 218
Letter
 ABOUT THE
 AUTHOR
 Lady Sabrina is an initiated priestess of the Wiccan reli
gion and the founder of Our Lady of Enchantment, the larg
est federally recognized Wiccan seminary in the United States.
 During the last 20 years, Lady Sabrina has taught more than
 25,000 students worldwide how to develop their personal
 power through Witchcraft and magick. She has appeared on
 major television shows and is the author of several books,
 including Exploring Wicca (also from New Page Books), Se
crets of Modern Witchcraft Revealed, and Reclaiming the Power.
 Sabrina lives in New Hampshire with her three dogs, two cats,
 and assorted fish. She enjoys crafts, gardening,  antiquing,
 and classic horror movies.
 For more information about Our Lady of Enchantment
 or to contact the author, write to:
 Our Lady of Enchantment
 P.O. Box 1366
 Nashua, NH 03061
 or visit: www.wiccaseminary.org
 219
Letter
 ALSO BY LADY SABRINA
 Exploring Wicca
 Secrets of Moder Witchcraft Revealed
 Cauldron of Transformation
 Reclaiming The Power
 1